                                    Document of
                                  the World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00001829



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-78450)

                                  ON A LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$500.0 MILLION



                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                     FOR A


  DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN ON PROMOTING AN INCLUSIVE, EQUITABLE
            AND EFFICIENT SOCIAL PROTECTION SYSTEM




                                  June 29, 2011




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2011)

                      Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
                           COP [1787.3] = US$1

                              FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BDUA     Single Health Beneficiary Registry
CCF      Worker's Family Assistance Funds (Cajas de Compensación Familiar)
CONPES   National Commission on Economic and Social Policy (Consejo Nacional de
         Política Económica y Social)
EICE     State Industry and Commercial Enterprise (Empresa Industrial y Comercial
         del Estado)
FONEDE   Employment Support and Unemployment Protection Fund (Fondo de Apoyo
         al Empleo y Protección al Desempleado)
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
ICBF     Colombian Institute for Family Welfare (Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar
         Familiar)
IMF      International Monetary Fund
NDP      National Development Plan
ISS      Social Security Institute (Instituto de Seguridad Social)
PILA     Integrated Contributions Payment System (Planilla Integrada de Liquidación
         de Aportes)
RUAF     Unified Registry of Affiliates (Registro Unificado de Afiliados)
SENA     National Service for Job Training (Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
SISBEN   System for the Selection of Programs’ Beneficiaries (Sistema de
         Identificación de Potenciales Beneficiaries de Programas)
UGPP     Agency for the Collection of Pension and Social Protection Para-fiscal
         Contributions (Unidad Administrativa Especial de Gestión Pensional y
         Contribuciones Parafiscales de la Protección Social)
UPC      Capitation Payment Unit (Unidad de Pago por Capitación)

                        Vice President: Pamela Cox
                      Country Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
                       Sector Manager: Helena Ribe
                  Project Team Leader: Theresa Jones
                                        Pablo Acosta, Diana Cardenas, and Gonzalo Reyes
                    ICR Team Leaders:
                                        Hartley
                                  COLOMBIA
  Development Policy Loan on Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social
                                Protection System


                                                        CONTENTS



       Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 18
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 19
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results .......................................................................... 20
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 22
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 22
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
Annex 7. MAP .............................................................................................................. 28
A. Basic Information
                                                                              CO DPL on Promoting
                                                                              an Inclusive, Equitable
Country:                Colombia                    Program Name:
                                                                              and Efficient Social
                                                                              Protection System
Program ID:             P106708                     L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-78450
ICR Date:               06/29/2011                  ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                              REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     DPL                         Borrower:
                                                                              COLOMBIA
Original Total
                        USD 500.0M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 500.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 500.0M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process              Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/26/2009        Effectiveness:             06/09/2010        03/29/2010
Appraisal:             12/07/2009        Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/23/2010        Mid-term Review:           10/20/2010        10/20/2010
                                         Closing:                   12/31/2010        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                        Moderate
Bank Performance:                                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                               Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                              Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                             Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                             Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                    i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                20                  20
Other social services                                                 80                  80


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health system performance                                             20                  20
Improving labor markets                                               20                  20
Social safety nets                                                    50                  50
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                               10                  10

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Helena G. Ribe                       Helena G. Ribe
Program Team Leader:       Theresa Jones                        Aline Coudouel
ICR Team Leader:           Pablo Ariel Acosta
ICR Primary Author:        Pablo Ariel Acosta
                           Diana Isabel Cardenas
                           Gonzalo Javier Reyes Hartley


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aimed at strengthening an inclusive, equitable and efficient social protection
system by: (1) promoting greater integration, efficiency and equity of social insurance,


                                                  ii
(2) improving the targeting, efficiency, and articulation of social assistance programs, and
(3) promoting higher quality training and employment services.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
No revisions.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      The number of affiliates in the PILA is stabilized around 8.8 million affiliates.
Value
(quantitative or   6.8 million              8.8 million                         9.7 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009               12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Over-achieved by 10 percent (or 900,000 affiliates).
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Number of tutelas resolved by UGPP.
Value
(quantitative or   0                                                            40,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009                                                   12/31/2010
Comments
                   Cajanal EICE has outsourced the resolution of pending pension claims (around
(incl. %
                   117,000 tutelas) to the Fiduciary Administrator BUEN FUTURO.
achievement)
                   Increase of the Unidad de Pago por Capitación (insurance premium per person)
Indicator 3 :      of the subsidized regimen for children under twelve (receiving full or partial
                   subsidy), to the level contributory regime from the first of January of 2010.
                   0
Value
(quantitative or                                                                100%
                   0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009                                                   12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
                   Total number of affiliates of the subsidized regime under the rules of targeting
Indicator 4 :
                   defined in the Agreement 415.
Value
(quantitative or   0%                                                           100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009                                                   12/31/2010
Comments
                   Achieved.
(incl. %



                                                 iii
achievement)
                   At least 1,000,000 families are enrolled in Juntos strategy and receive family
Indicator 5 :
                   accompaniment.
Value
(quantitative or   900,000                  1,000,000                          1,250,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/30/2009               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Over-achieved by 25 percent (or 250,000 families).
achievement)
                   Number of Municipalities with contracts with the Juntos strategy (880) and
Indicator 6 :
                   their disbursements are at least maintained.
Value
(quantitative or                            880 municipalities                 1027 municipalities
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Over-achieved by 17 percent (or 147 municipalities)
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Successful implementation of SISBEN in all municipalities
Value
                                            1101
(quantitative or                                                               1090 municipalities
                                            municipalities
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
                   Partially Achieved (99 percent). The remaining 11 municipalities are expected
(incl. %
                   to implement SISBEN in 2011.
achievement)
                   Increase by 2 percent the number of registries of social assistance programs in
Indicator 8 :
                   the RUAF (from a 2009 baseline of 33.7 million).
Value
(quantitative or   33,700,000               34,374,000                         38,800,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2009               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Over-achieved by 13 percent (or 4,426,000 registries).
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      At least 50 courses and institutions "quality certified."
Value
(quantitative or                            50                                 63
Qualitative)
Date achieved                               12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Over-achieved by 26 percent (or 13 programs).
achievement)
                   Each Observatorio has published on its website a report following the
Indicator 10 :
                   methodology designed by the Ministry of Social Protection.
Value
                                            5                                  8
(quantitative or


                                                  iv
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Over-achieved by 60 percent (or 3 observatorios).
achievement)
                   Analytical documents developing options for the implementation of the Juntos
Indicator 11 :
                   strategy and design of income generation program pilots.
Value
(quantitative or                             5                                 3
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                12/31/2010                        12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %           Partially Achieved (60 percent). 2 remaining pilots are still being designed.
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
      Indicator       Baseline Value                          Revised
                                                approval                           Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :      There were no IOI for this operation.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                              DO                          IP                Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1      03/25/2010           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2      12/28/2010           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  500.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 v
      1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.      The development objective of this operation was to strengthen an inclusive, equitable and
efficient social protection system in Colombia. In order to achieve this objective, the operation
aimed at consolidating past gains and supported selected policy actions in a broad range of areas.
In order to increase the inclusiveness of the system, the operation supported efforts to increase
coverage of systems serving the entire population, like health insurance and labor training and
intermediation services. In order to increase its equity, the operation supported the
implementation of improved targeting mechanisms and coordination within social assistance
programs. In order to make it more efficient, the operation sought improved information systems,
rationalization and simplification in several programs, like public pensions, extreme poverty
alleviation (Juntos Strategy) or training. These policy actions built upon previous achievements
in the different areas supported by the operation, such as the implementation of a unified
payment mechanism for social security contributions (PILA), the existence of a single registry of
participants in social programs (RUAF), utilization of a targeting mechanism (SISBEN) and
existing regulations and policies to improve income generation opportunities for the poor, among
others. In many cases, the operation sought to increase the coverage of these instruments (e.g.
PILA, RUAF) to improve their effectiveness (e.g. SISBEN) or to implement improvements and
reforms previously designed (e.g. consolidation of public pensions, labor market observatories).

1.1      Context at Appraisal

2.      Prior to 2009, Colombia experienced a period of 6 years of economic growth averaging 5
percent (higher than the regional average). While the economy slowed down in 2008 (to 3.5
percent growth), Colombia was not affected too severely by the global economic crisis that
initiated at the end of that year. A strong macroeconomic framework helped cushion the impact
of the external shock, and an expansionary monetary and fiscal policy (spending on
infrastructure and social programs) contributed to support domestic demand. Economic growth
in recent years has been accompanied by poverty reduction, while income inequality remained
virtually unchanged. Between 2002 and 2009, overall poverty fell from 53.7 to 45.5 percent, and
extreme poverty from 19.7 to 16.4 percent, while income inequality remained constant, among
the highest in the region.

3.      Progress in terms of poverty reduction is associated with Colombia’s efforts to provide
social protection to its population and is palpable in the large array of services and programs
offered by the public and private sectors at both the national, regional and local levels. In the last
few years, Colombia has continued to strengthen its social policies to expand opportunities to the
majority of population. These efforts were mostly concentrated in: a) enhancing social promotion
through increasing coverage of safety nets (including the conditional cash transfer, Familias en
Acción, and the Juntos family accompaniment program) and social protection programs for the
poor; b) expanding educational opportunities; and c) increasing access and performance in the
provision of basic services, such as those related to health and early childhood development. In
addition, the Government has focused on issues of efficiency, as illustrated, among others, by the




                                                  1
efforts to improve the national targeting system which can be used by all programs to reach the
poorest and most vulnerable, and the design and implementation of core information systems.

4.      At the same time, several challenges remained, in particular in terms of the limited
coverage of contributory social insurance (pensions, health, unemployment insurance), and thus
mostly available to formal workers (with the exception of health). Similarly, programs aimed at
fostering employability, such as training, labor intermediation, and other employment services,
are not reaching the lower segments of the population. Colombian labor markets are still
characterized by high levels of unemployment and informality. Also, while Familias en Acción
and the Juntos program (with professional counselors accompanying poor households and
ensuring their preferential access to social services) have significantly improved the human
capital and opportunities of poor families, a critical challenge is to enhance the coordination
between the programs and with social services more broadly, and the effective coverage of
internally-displaced people. Similar coordination efforts are also required with other social
interventions.

5.      This operation was aligned with the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) 2008-2011 objectives on Poverty Alleviation and Equity and Sustainable Equitable
Growth. It is also a result of a long standing dialogue and policy support to the Government of
Colombia, including a series of financial and technical services in the area of Social Protection
over the past decade, including three budget support operations, an associated Technical
Assistance Loan, four investment operations supporting Familias en Acción, AAA on labor
market informality, jobs and poverty, and the on-going knowledge services on social protection
issues.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

6.      The Project Development Objective of this operation was to strengthen an inclusive,
equitable and efficient social protection system by: (1) promoting greater integration, efficiency
and equity of social insurance, (2) improving the targeting, efficiency, and articulation of social
assistance programs, and (3) promoting higher quality training and employment services.

7.      To achieve this objective, this operation supported policies in a broad range of areas -
from targeting systems to pension institutions and active labor market policies. Given the long
term engagement that the Bank has had with the government of Colombia on topics related with
Social Protection, it became clear that in order to achieve the progress that the government was
targeting within its reform process, a focus on specific actions within multiple areas was a more
effective strategy than covering many actions of a single area. In this way, this operation
contributes more effectively to support the several lines of business that the Bank has been
working on over the past decade.

8.     The key outcome indicators, framed within the policy areas supported by the operation,
were set as follows:




                                                2
Policy Area 1 – Promoting Greater Integration, Efficiency, and Equity of Social Insurance.

        The Government has expanded the information system for the payment of social security
         contributions, the PILA, to cover the majority of formal sector workers.
            o Indicator: The number of affiliates in the PILA 1 is stabilized around 8.8
                million affiliates

        The Government has decreed the liquidation Cajanal and the transfer of its active
         members to the Social Security Institute-Pensions.
            o Indicator: Number of tutelas resolved by UGPP.2

        The Health Regulatory Commission has adopted a policy adjusting the package of health
         services provided to beneficiaries of the subsidized health regime for children under 12,
         to the package of health services of the contributory regime.
             o Indicator: Increase of the Unidad de Pago por Capitación (insurance premium
                 per person) of the subsidized regime for children under twelve (receiving full
                 or partial subsidy), to the level of the contributory regime from the first of
                 January of 2010.

        The National Council on Social Security in Health has adopted a policy of targeting
         subsidized health care.
            o Indicator: Total number of affiliates of the subsidized regime under the rules
                of targeting defined in the Agreement 415.

Policy Area 2 – Improving the Targeting, Efficiency, and Articulation of Social Assistance.

        The Government has launched a strategy to address extreme poverty (the Juntos strategy),
         which aims at reducing extreme poverty by providing accompaniment and preferential
         access to core social services to extreme poor families.
            o Indicators: a) At least 1,000,000 families are enrolled in Juntos and receive
                 family accompaniment; and b) Number of Municipalities with contracts with
                 the Juntos strategy (880) and their disbursements are at least maintained.

        The Government has designed a revised national targeting system, SISBEN III, and
         implemented it in at least 90 percent of the municipalities of 10 departments.
            o Indicator: Successful implementation of SISBEN in all municipalities.

        The Government has expanded a national system that centralizes information on
         beneficiaries of all social programs (RUAF).


1
  PILA is the unified payment mechanism of contributions to social insurance. Through this mechanism, employers
can make in a single payment all the contributions required to social insurance, which the system later transfer to the
respective institutions.
2
  The Government of Colombia created under the Ministry of Finance a special division called UGPP that will be in
charge of clearing the backlog in the payment of pensions and facing the legal actions presented by beneficiaries of
the public pension providers that demand improved benefits.


                                                          3
             o Indicator: Increase by 2 percent the number of registries of social assistance
               programs in RUAF (from a 2009 baseline of 33.7 million).

Policy Area 3 – Promoting Higher Quality Training and Employment Services.

         The Government has defined the processes and modalities for the application of the
          technical quality norms for job training institutions and programs.
              o Indicator: At least 50 courses and institutions “quality-certified.”

         The Government has strengthened its system to monitor labor markets in order to develop
          intermediation services and training programs that respond more efficiently to labor
          demand.
              o Indicator: Each Observatorio has published on its website a report following
                 the methodology designed by the Ministry of Social Protection.

         The National Commission on Economic and Social Policy (CONPES) has approved a
          national strategy to promote income generation for the extreme poor.
              o Indicator: Analytical documents developing options for the implementation
                 of the strategy and design of pilots.


1.3       Revised PDO and Key indicators

9.     The Project Development Objective and Key indicators were not revised during the
course of the Project.

1.4       Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program

10.     Policy measures and actions to achieve objectives supported by the DPL were grouped in
three pillars, each of which covered multiple reform areas.

     Policy Area 1: Promoting greater integration, efficiency and equity of social insurance.
      In particular, this operation supported reforms to: (1) improve the collection of contributions
      for a more efficient management of social insurance, (2) consolidate the public pension
      system for greater efficiency, and (3) promote an equitable and sustainable health insurance
      system.

     Policy Area 2: Improving the targeting, efficiency, and articulation of social assistance
      Within the Government reform agenda to strengthen its social assistance programs, their
      institutions, and the overall social assistance system, this operation supported the following
      set of reforms to: (1) address extreme poverty through an integral strategy of tailored support
      and preferential access, (2) increase programs’ impact through a more agile targeting system,
      and (3) promote greater integration and efficiency through improved information systems
      and increased monitoring and evaluation.




                                                  4
     Policy Area 3: Promoting higher quality training and employment services
      In particular, this operation supports reforms to: (1) strengthen the national training system to
      offer relevant and high quality training, (2) establish labor market intermediation and
      unemployment services that promote effective entry into the labor force, and (3) adapt
      training programs and active labor market policies to the poorest and most vulnerable.

1.5      Revised Policy Areas

11.      The policy areas were not revised.

1.6      Other significant changes

12.      None.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance

13.    The DPL on Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social Protection System
was a single tranche operation. All prior actions were met on time (see table below). The tranche
was released on March 29, 2010. An Implementation Status and Results Report was prepared on
December 28, 2010, and was rated as satisfactory. The loan closed on December 31, 2010.

                         List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                 Status
 The Borrower has expanded the information system for the payment of social security contributions, the          Met
PILA, to cover the majority of formal sector workers.
The Borrower has decreed the liquidation of Cajanal and the transfer of its active members to the Social         Met
Security Institute-Pensions, as evidenced by the Borrower’s Decree 2196 dated June 12, 2009, published in
the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial No 47378) on June 12, 2009.
The Borrower has adopted a policy adjusting the package of health services provided to beneficiaries of the      Met
subsidized health regime for children under 12, to the package of health services of the contributory regime,
as evidenced by the Borrower’s Health Regulatory Commission’s Agreement Number 04, dated September
30, 2009, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial No 47489) on October 1, 2009.
The Borrower has adopted a policy of targeting subsidized health care, as evidenced by the Borrower’s            Met
National Council on Social Security for Health’s Agreement Number 415, dated May 29, 2009, published in
the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial No 47476) on September 18, 2009.
The Borrower has launched a strategy to address extreme poverty (the Juntos Strategy), as evidenced by: (i)      Met
the approval of the Juntos Operational Manual, (ii) the fourteen agreements signed by the Juntos
Participating Agencies through which they commit to the Juntos Strategy and to give preferential access to
relevant social programs to Juntos Strategy beneficiaries; (iii) the enrollment of more than 900,000 extreme
poor or displaced families to the system; and (iv) the signing of contracts with more than 880 municipalities
out of a total of 1103.
The Borrower has designed a revised national targeting system, SISBEN III, and has implemented it in at          Met
least 90 percent of the municipalities of 10 departments, as evidenced by: (i) the SISBEN III
Implementation Manuals; and (ii) a report certified by the DNP social development director showing the
number of municipalities with complete certified records and people in the system.
The Borrower has expanded a national system that centralizes information on beneficiaries of all social          Met
programs, the RUAF, as evidenced by a report certified by the Vice-Minister of Social Protection showing
the increase in the number of records in the RUAF and that most of the social assistance agencies are
connected to the system.




                                                          5
                          List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                               Status
The Borrower has defined the processes and modalities for the application of the technical quality norms for    Met
job training institutions and programs, as evidenced by the Borrower’s Decree 3756 dated September 30,
2009, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (Diario Oficial No 47488) on September 30, 2009.
The Borrower has strengthened its system to monitor labor markets in order to develop intermediation            Met
services and training programs to respond more efficiently to labor demand, as evidenced by the signing of
five agreements for the creation of Observatorios Regionales between the Borrower’s Ministry of Social
Protection and: (i) the Department of Risaralda; (ii) the Municipality of Armenia; (iii) Instituto Municipal
de Empleo y Fomento Empresarial del Municipio de Bucaramanga; (iv) Tolima University; and (v) Nariño
University.
The Borrower has approved a national strategy to promote income generation for the extreme poor, as             Met
evidenced by the CONPES decision presented in the CONPES document No 3616 of September 28, 2009.



2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation


14.      Overall, progress in the policy areas of pensions and health insurance has proved more
difficult to achieve than in the other policy areas supported by this operation. In the coming years,
progress in these two policy areas will be critical for the Government’s program to fight extreme
poverty and promote greater employability. Another factor which affected implementation is the
transition to a new administration, a risk highlighted at the appraisal stage. The change of
administration resulted in some delays, some changes to the national anti-poverty strategy Juntos
(re-launched under the name Unidos), as well as to the development of plans for a split of the
institutional structure of the Ministry of Social Protection in two ministries (not yet finalized).

15.     More specifically, the program document identified four types of risks to this operation,
which were handled in a manner which promotes the sustainability of the reforms supported by
this operation:

   Macroeonomic risks: Colombia was not too affected by the global economic crisis as a result
    of a strong macroeconomic framework, including responsible and counter-cyclical fiscal and
    monetary policies, a flexible exchange rate policy, sound macro and micro prudential policies
    combined with a solid financial system.

   Transition and governance-related risks: During 2010 Colombia had Legislative and
    Presidential Elections. During the campaign, the debate on social policies covered the areas
    supported by this loan, in particular as they relate to the financing of health sector, labor
    markets and the future of social assistance programs. Mr. Juan Manuel Santos, the candidate
    supported by the outgoing President’s party, won the election. Though the political transition
    slowed down the pace of some of the reforms supported by the new operation, the new
    administration remains committed to the reforms supported by this operation. It has put the
    alleviation of poverty as one of its main priorities. In this context, it has appointed a new
    High Counselor for Social Prosperity (Alto Consejero para la Prosperidad Social) and is
    preparing a National Plan for Social Prosperity, which presents the national strategy for the
    alleviation of extreme poverty, called Unidos, building on the Juntos strategy supported by
    this operation.




                                                         6
   Social sectors-specific risks: In December 2010, Colombia experienced a catastrophic rainy
    season largely attributed to the meteorological phenomenon known as La Niña, which caused
    200 deaths and affected almost 3 million people. This event happened towards the closing
    date of the loan, and did not affect much its implementation, with the exception of the goal to
    implement the new targeting instrument for social interventions (SISBEN III) that was
    delayed in a few municipalities affected by the severe weather. It also created significant
    demands on the Ministries in charge of the policies supported by the loan. This may have an
    impact on future development of the policies and may have caused delays in increasing
    coverage and reaching parts of the population that were isolated due to the weather
    conditions, floods and mudslides.

   Risks related to violence: Risks did not materialize.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design

16.    The program document defined outcome indicators in the short term (to be achieved by
December 2010), as well as a series of medium term indicators which are expected to result from
the Government’s broader reform program.

17.     One indicator proved hard to monitor, the one referring to the ―Total number of affiliates
of the subsidized regime under the rules of targeting defined in the Agreement 415.‖ This
indicator should have provided an explicit target, which was explicit in the Agreement 415
which defined it, but should have been made clear in the Program Document. This could have
been either an absolute target (for instance, ―20,000,000 transfers are provided applying the rules
of targeting defined in Agreement 415‖) or a relative one (―100 percent of the transfers for the
subsidized health regime are provided applying the rules of targeting defined in the Agreement
415‖).

2.3.2 Implementation

18.     The existence of central information systems facilitated the monitoring of indicators
related to the payment of contributions or the number of beneficiaries of various social protection
programs. The strengthening of the systems themselves was the object of selected reforms
supported by this operation. For the other indicators, close technical dialogue ensured the team
could monitor progress on a regular basis throughout the implementation period.

2.3.3 Utilization

19.    Most of the indicators defined in the operation were easy to monitor and follow up, and
proved to be useful to track progress in the policy area of relevance.

20.     The exception was the indicator on the ―Number of tutelas resolved by UGPP,‖ which
failed to capture the complexity of the reforms undertaken in the sector of pensions. Although
the liquidation of Cajanal EICE was declared, and the staffing for both Colpensiones and UGPP


                                                 7
was approved, the actual transfer of members from the former to the latter has not taken place yet.
In the meantime, pending pension claims (117,000 tutelas) are being handled by an agreement
signed between Cajanal EICE and a private agency. So, while the indicator captured one of the
aspects of the ongoing reform, an indicator of progress on the actual restructuring of institutions
and functions might have been more appropriate.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation

21.     The Bank is engaged in a very active dialogue with the Government of Colombia on the
policies related to improving its social protection system, and provides the authorities with
continuous technical support in selected areas. The Bank continues to provide knowledge
services to the sector, as well as support to one of the core social assistance programs (Familias
en Acción) through an ongoing investment operation. Additionally, the Bank is preparing a
programmatic DPL operation designed to support fiscal sustainability and growth resilience,
which supports the improved management of social sector liabilities, particularly in the health
sector.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory

22.     The objectives, design and implementation of this project were relevant at appraisal for
strengthening the social protection system, as established in the program document. They
continue to be highly relevant at the time of this Implementation Completion and Results Report.
Indeed, the reforms supported by this operation remain at the core of the new Government’s
policy program. The new administration came to office with an explicit agenda to tackle poverty,
inequality and unemployment (which they label ―social prosperity‖). The priorities of the
administration are reflected in the National Development Plan (NDP) approved as law by
Congress in May 2011, and include several of the reform areas supported by this operation.

23.      The continuity in the reform program partly reflects the fact that the policies are part of
the long term social agenda that various administrations have implemented since the economic
crisis which hit the country in 1999. It also reflects the strong and long-term engagement of the
Bank with Colombian policy makers. Finally, it also attests to the strength of the country’s
institutions and system, as well as the consensus built in Congress around core directions for
social policy.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory




                                                 8
Policy Area 1: Promoting Greater Integration, Efficiency, and Equity of Social Insurance.

24.     The reforms supported in this area aimed at: a) improving the collection of contributions
to the social insurance system; b) consolidating the efficiency of the public pension system; and
c) designing a more sustainable and equitable health insurance system.

25.     Improving the collection of contributions to the social insurance system: In this area,
the Government made significant progress in completing the deployment of the system for the
payment of social security contributions (PILA). Indeed, after initial phases of application of the
system to sub-groups of formal sector workers, the system is now used by all formal sectors
workers (9.7 million individuals in December 2010). This ensures a more efficient mechanism
to collect contributions (the system is a unique point of payment for a series of contributions,
while workers and employers previously had to undertake multiple transactions). In addition, the
Government has established the formal operational and staff structure for the special unit that
oversees the collection of social insurance contributions. In the coming months, the challenges
include: (1) adjustments to the information system to allow for cross-reference with the registry
of beneficiaries of the health insurance system (Single Health Beneficiary Registry, BDUA); and
(2) the development of software to allow for online reporting.

26.     Consolidating the public pension system: In this area, the Government made some
progress in its effort to streamline the pension system and promote greater efficiency and
transparency. This is a very difficult area for reform, because of the complexity of the system
and the wide range of actors involved. Progress was made on two major fronts. First, as part of
the rationalization of the system, the Government has started the liquidation of one of the main
agencies managing public pensions (Cajanal), planned that of another one (Social Security
Institute), and created the new agency that will become the sole pension provider for the public
pension system and its administrative structure and staffing (Colpensiones). Second, in an effort
to address the backlog of pending claims, the Government has established an agency (the UGPP)
with defined structure and operational models. To this end, the Government has also
consolidated the pension records of all members of the liquidated agency Cajanal and identified
the resulting backlog of judicial cases (around 117,000 tutelas). To help address the backlog, the
Government has contracted a private agency to process circa 40,000 tutelas. While the
reforms of the sector will require additional actions and efforts in the coming years, these first
steps are very significant and represent major progress after years without progress.

27.    Designing of a more sustainable and equitable health insurance system: In this area,
the Government has advanced reforms on two fronts. First, in terms of defining a package of
services that is both adequate and affordable, the Government: (1) aligned the health services
provided to beneficiaries of the subsidized health regime to the package of health services of the
contributory regime for children under 18; and (2) adjusted the value of insurance transfer
paid to providers for each insured individual (Unidad de Pago por Capitación, UPC) to
finance the newly revised package of services for children under 18 in the subsidized
regime. The Government has also carried out two pilots (in Barranquilla and Cartagena) to
estimate the potential cost of aligning the packages of the subsidized and contributory regimes
for the rest of the population. Despite these efforts to increase equality in access to health
services, the challenge is now on financing a reform to avoid disincentives to contribute to the


                                                9
system and thus possibly stimulate labor informality. The recent health reform, presented in the
Law 1438/11, establishes the gradual equalization between the contributory and the subsidized
health insurance regimes for all population groups and all regions by the end of 2015. Therefore,
the financing of the health sector remains very critical and will require significant reforms in the
coming months and years.

28.     The second front on which the Government has made significant progress relates to the
targeting of the subsidized health insurance regime and to the efficiency of the system that
transfers funds to providers that cover affiliates to the subsidized regime. The Government: (1)
defined and adopted the targeting policy defined in the agreement 415 (as supported by this
operation), and (2) put in place mechanisms to strengthen the transfer system (BDUA) by
designing processes that automatically update the list of affiliates with data from the registry of
formal sector workers (PILA) and from the health care providers and local authorities. In the
coming months, the Government will start using the newly established targeting database
(SISBEN III) to target the poor and exclude those that do not meet the poverty criteria. This will
require the adoption of cut-off and entry and exit criteria for the subsidized regime, and
definitions of the processes to address cases of individuals who lose their coverage
(desclasificados).

Policy Area 2: Improving the Targeting, Efficiency, and Articulation of Social Assistance.

29.     The reforms supported in this area aimed at: (1) addressing extreme poverty through an
integral strategy of tailored support and preferential access; (2) increasing programs’ impact
through a more agile targeting system; and (3) promoting greater integration and efficiency
through improved information systems and increased monitoring and evaluation.

30.     Addressing extreme poverty through an integral strategy of tailored support and
preferential access: In this area, the Government expanded the main strategy to alleviate
poverty (Juntos) to 1,027 municipalities (96 percent of the country) and around 1,250,000
families. A major achievement was the establishment of partnerships with almost all the
country’s municipalities and regional authorities, which ensures greater coordination with local
services, greater resources and greater supervision on the ground. The new administration has
fully embraced the strategy (renaming it the Unidos strategy) and set a target of 1,500,000
families for 2011. The Government has also decided to strengthen the strategy by setting goals in
terms of program graduation (350,000 families) and increasing the private investment
participation. Over the coming months, efforts will be required to ensure preferential access to
key social programs adapted to the poor and continue to strengthen the coordination mechanisms
at the central and local levels.

31.    Improving program impact through a new targeting system: In this area, the
Government made significant progress with the implementation of the new targeting
system (SISBEN III) in 1090 municipalities (out of 1101). This new system now captures
dimensions of vulnerability according to geographic considerations, and more importantly,
defines program-specific selection criteria (different cut-off points), a significant improvement
from the previous version. The Government expects that all remaining municipalities will be
included by June 2011 (as mentioned earlier, delays resulted from the national weather


                                                10
emergency). The Government has also defined policies and directives for the application and use
of this targeting mechanism by all social programs in Colombia. It has also carried out a pilot in
219 municipalities to build the system that will allow online updating of records in the future, a
key limitation of previous versions of the system (SISBEN NET). The new targeting system will
likely imply significant re-allocation of resources within programs, to improve their targeting.
This will require major reforms and adjustments for implementing agencies in the near future.
The National Planning Department will likely play a key role in assisting programs in the
definition of targeting criteria and rosters.

32.      Implementing a new information system: In this area, the Government has made
significant progress in upgrading the information systems to manage and update the Unified
Registry of Social Program Beneficiaries (RUAF). The new system will allow programs to more
efficiently target their beneficiaries and monitor their activities. It can also play a key role in
identifying potential overlaps or synergies between programs. By December 2010, the RUAF
included around 38.8 million individuals (a 15 percent increase from baseline), and
beneficiaries of 71 different social assistance programs (from 39 at baseline a year ago). This
effort has required the coordination and collaboration of all major national programs by the
Ministry of Social Protection. For the system, the next challenge will be the inclusion of
beneficiaries from regional programs in the registry (the Government is currently implementing a
pilot in Cundinamarca).

Policy Area 3: Promoting Higher Quality Training and Employment Services.

33.    The reforms supported in this area aimed at: (1) strengthening the national training
system to offer relevant and high quality training; (2) establishing labor market intermediation
and unemployment services to promote a more effective entry into the labor force; and (3)
adapting training programs and active labor market policies to the poorest and most vulnerable
segments of the population.

34.     Strengthening the national training system. In this area, there is still a long way
towards a system that prioritizes coverage among the poor and less-skilled population. However,
a comprehensive reform of the National Training System would first require the quality
accreditation of public and private providers, as supported by this operation. In that sense, the
Government made significant progress in issuing the CONPES 3674 3 on human capital
formation. It has also started to implement new institutional arrangements to consolidate the
training system as well as reforms in the registration of institutions and courses. By October
2010, around 2,400 training institutions had been evaluated and obtained a license of operation
and 4,600 training programs had been evaluated to meet basic quality standards. A new
information system, called SIET, was implemented, which provides users with a registry of
certified institutions and courses. The Government has also started the implementation of the
quality certification process for training institutions and courses. By December 2010, 63 training
institutions had been certified by ISO 9001 v. 2000 and other 196 institutions had received


3
 National Planning Department (2010), ―Documento CONPES 3674: Lineamientos de Política para el
Fortalecimiento del Sistema de Formación de Capital Humano‖, DNP: Bogotá, Colombia.


                                                11
technical assistance to complete the certification process. Finally, as part of its efforts to improve
the quality and relevance of its programs, the SENA completed the evaluation of one of its core
programs (Young Rural Entrepreneurs, Jóvenes Rurales Emprendedores), showing positive and
significant impacts with employment rate among participants that increased by 13-14 percent.4 In
the coming months, the Government will need to continue its efforts to bring into the national
system those institutions that operate with SENA (the national training program), which are
currently certified by a parallel process led by SENA itself. Additionally, SENA will need to
implement its plan to incorporate the best practices to address the needs of the poorest population
(the ones being targeted by Juntos/Unidos).

35.     Establishing labor market intermediation and unemployment services to promote a
more effective entry into the labor force. In this area, the Government expanded the public
employment services provided by SENA to help individuals with job search and career guidance,
in 32 municipalities which were not previously covered. The Government has also analyzed
the experience of the 8 pilot regional labor market observatories established to monitor
local labor markets (other 2 pilots are planned for 2011). With the aim to stimulate the
creation of new formal jobs, the country has promulgated a legislative reform to reduce labor
costs for youth first employment and registration taxes for micro-enterprises (―Ley de
Formalización y Primer Empleo‖), whose short and medium term effects will be monitored
through the new information systems supported by these operation. Finally, the Government has
evaluated the unemployment services (subsidies, training, credit, and links with firms) provided
by the Employment Support and Unemployment Protection Fund (FONEDE), administered by
the CCFs. The next challenge is to extend the reach of employment services to the poor,
probably as part of a new strategy to be called Trabajemos Unidos. This program will seek an
expansion in the number of employment offices to municipalities with high proportion of
extreme poor and displaced population (the plan over the medium-term is to create at least 300
new employment offices), that would offer personalized services and would have strong linkages
with private sector, local Governments, and training institutions.

36.     Adapting training programs and active labor market policies for the poor. In this
area, the Government (coordinated by DNP) has implemented 3 income generation
program pilots for the poor (population of the Unidos strategy), in Cartagena, Pasto, and
Santa Marta, and two additional pilots are underway during 2011. The Government has also
commissioned a study on institutional reform among Government entities to expand access to
active labor market policies for the poor and vulnerable population (Trabajemos Unidos). The
focus of the Government is that Unidos families should have preferential access to income
generation interventions in the country. As mentioned before, Trabajemos Unidos will go in that
direction, with components on youth employment and public works (learning from past
experiences in Colombia such as Jóvenes en Acción and Empleos en Acción), adult training, and
special employment programs targeted to women and disabled population. The goal is to reach
100,000 program participants among the Unidos population during 2011-2014.




4
 Fedesarrollo (2010), ―Evaluación de Impacto del Programa Jóvenes Rurales Emprendedores del Servicio
Nacional de Aprendizaje – SENA.‖


                                                 12
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

37.     The proposed rating is Satisfactory because the program remains highly relevant at the
time of this ICR, has achieved its stated project development objectives, and has achieved most
of the outcome indicators. For the indicators that were not fully met (―Successful implementation
of SISBEN in all municipalities‖; and ―Analytical documents developing options for the
implementation of the Juntos strategy and design of income generation program pilots‖), as
discussed in the previous sections, the progress realized since the closing of this operation as
well as the Government’s commitment and ownership to the reform process suggest that the
targets will be met during the course of 2011.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

38.     The objective of this Project was to strengthen the Social Protection System through the
implementation of a series of social and labor reforms. These reforms were expected to have
large social impacts, and this Project has contributed to achieve them. In particular, the project
has helped achieve:
     Greater coverage of social protection programs through the adjustment of the health
        package provided for the subsidized regimen for children under 18 years old.
     Greater coverage of basic services for the poorest families through the implementation of
        the Juntos strategy.
     Greater efficiency in the social protection programs through the creation of the unified
        information system for social insurance payment contributions that reduces transaction
        costs and identifies those who contribute regardless of their income capacity.
     Greater quality in program delivery, through a better targeting system and more accurate
        administrative data.
     Development of active labor market policies, through an improved National Job Training
        System and Labor Intermediation System.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

39.     Institutional changes and capacity strengthening were part of the core objectives of the
Project, and the reforms were successfully implemented. Results in these dimensions are
presented earlier in Section 3.2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

40.    Not applicable.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

41.    Not applicable.


                                               13
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

42.     Macroeconomic risk: Colombia’s economy proved to be more resilient than other
emerging market economies, and it is recovering steadily from the limited effects of the global
crisis. However, external and environmental shocks may continue to pose challenges to the
economy and fiscal front in the near future. For instance, Colombia is vulnerable to commodity
price shocks, and an adverse shock to oil and other primary exports could result in a significant
increase in Colombia’s financing needs. Also, a sudden deterioration of external financing
conditions would also affect Colombia. Finally, Colombia has experienced in 2011 some of the
heaviest rainfall in recent history leading to widespread flooding and landslides. The fiscal cost
of the disaster increased the Central Government deficit by 0.2 and 0.4 percent of GDP in 2010
and 2011, respectively. But the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit maintains a credible
economic and fiscal strategy, and additional precautionary measures are being taken by the
Government, such as the extension of the IMF’s Flexible Credit Line until 2013 that will provide
space for policy flexibility while bolstering Colombia’s access to international markets if
commodity price and capital flight risks were to materialize. Therefore, the risk of
macroeconomic imbalances or challenges that could hamper or reverse the reforms supported by
this operation is moderate.

43.     Transition-related risk: There are very limited risks related to the political transition
that took place in 2010. As mentioned earlier, the continuity in the reform program partly reflect
the fact that the policies are part of the long term social agenda that various administrations have
implemented since the economic crisis which hit the country in 1999. It also reflects the strong
and long-term engagement of the Bank with Colombian policy makers. Finally, it also attests to
the strength of the country’s institutions and system, as well as the consensus built in Congress
around core directions for social policy. The objectives of this operation are largely aligned with
the policy goals of the new administration, as reflected in the NDP for 2010-2014.

44.      Social sectors-specific risks: The new administration has signaled in its NDP 2010-
2014, that the challenges in the social front for the next four years will be to: a) enhance social
promotion through increasing coverage of safety nets and social protection programs for the
poor; b) expand educational opportunities for all the population; and c) increase access and
performance in the provision of basic services, such as those related to health and early
childhood development. The risk relates to the financing of the health insurance, pension, and
labor market policy system that will remain in the near future unless a reform is implemented on
those fronts. For instance, in the past four years, the amount of public funds used to support
health services not covered by either health insurance regimes has increased significantly more
than three-fold. Also, serious irregularities were identified in the management of the insurance
system (with potential cases of fraud in the costing of services by the insurance companies). As a
result, it is critical for the Government to accelerate the process of revision of the package of
health services mentioned earlier (including the definition of the types of technologies and




                                                14
medicines that the package would include), as well as the definition of clear mechanisms to
address claims.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

45.     The Bank had long been involved in social protection and related areas in Colombia,
providing technical assistance to the Government, carrying out analytical work, and providing
financial support through investment and policy operations. Much of the earlier technical
assistance and analytical work have fed directly into the design of the reforms supported by this
operation, which highlights their quality and relevance.

46.     The implementation of this operation was successful in part because of the strong
commitment of the implementing agencies, because of the quality of the technical analysis that
underpinned the program and because of the strong and constant engagement with internal and
international partners to ensure quality implementation.

47.     The constant engagement and strong analytical foundations also allowed the team to
prepare this ambitious operation on a relatively tight schedule without compromising its quality,
as the team stood ready to define the policy program at short notice.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangement)

Rating: Satisfactory

48.     The Bank remained actively engaged with the Government through its ongoing policy
dialogue with the authorities (in the context of this operation, as well as that of the ongoing
investment loan and knowledge services). The Bank focused on development impact, following
regularly on the performance of indicators, including key outcomes. The Bank also provided
extensive technical assistance to the Government, providing technical inputs in the form of
seminars, policy notes, short technical briefs, as well as direct comments and suggestions for the
technical aspects of some of the regulation and policy design.

49.     The transition to a new task manager (a former team member already engaged in the
country dialogue for several years) in July 2010 was well-coordinated, with a full handover
mission, continued engagement from the past task manager, and a fairly stable team composition,
some of them involved in preparation of the operation, and others that become well-acquainted
with all components over time.




                                               15
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

50.     Taking into account the detailed ratings in Bank performance, overall Bank performance
is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

51.     The Borrower’s performance is considered satisfactory, from preparation through
completion. Since this operation’s approval, the Government has provided strong leadership in
the area of social protection. The new Government administration has also continued to give
priority to the agenda of consolidation of the social protection system, especially in strengthening
the strategy to reduce extreme poverty.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

52.    The overall performance of the implementing agencies is evaluated as satisfactory. With
the challenge of multiple implementation agencies, the National Planning Department led and
coordinated the implementation of the reforms supported by this operation, and facilitated the
supervision of the Bank support. The agencies implementing this program were—and remain—
highly committed to its objectives, reaching most of the targets well before the agreed deadlines.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

53.   The Overall Borrower Performance is considered satisfactory, in view of both the
Government and the Implementing Agencies’ performance.

6. Lessons Learned

54.   A series of lessons emerged as the team prepared this operation and supervised its
implementation. In particular:

55.      An effective operation is supported by strong analytics. A long tradition of technical
assistance, analysis and impact evaluations in the context of ongoing Knowledge Services, policy
or investment operations was critical in the identification of key reforms and in the design of
specific elements of such reforms. Maintaining an active technical policy dialogue proved
critical for the design of this operation in a short timeframe, for its depth, and for its successful
implementation.

56.     A long-term engagement facilitates the implementation. This DPL built on a long
series of financial and technical services provided to Colombia in the area of Social Protection


                                                 16
over the past decade. This included three budget support operations, an associated Technical
Assistance Loan, programmatic knowledge services, as well as a series of four investment
operations supporting Familias en Acción, the Government’s conditional cash transfer program.

57.    A focused approach serves to minimize Government transition risks. A single
tranche DPL in the midst of a Government transition always pose challenges in the operational
design. The sustained engagement, and the definition of a relevant program of support in areas
where consensus for reform were high, was key to maintain the commitment of the new
administration to continue strengthening the social protection system in those areas.

58.     Reform is a continuous process. Both the Government and the Bank team were quite
conscious that reform is a slow process and that long term engagement yields more profound
results than any single operation could. Many results in this operation are the culmination of
what started many years (and many operations) ago – RUAF, PILA, Juntos, accreditation system.
Thus, for real reform in Colombia, which is a middle income country with several challenges
ahead, it makes sense to have a constant presence and plan to be in there for the long haul.

59.    Importance of investing on information and monitoring systems. This operation
supported the expansion of PILA and RUAF, which has proved effective tools to monitor the
evolution of the social protection system and a source of relevant information. The
implementation of the new formalization law (Ley de Formalización y Primer Empleo) would
hardly have been possible without the existence of PILA.

60.    Adequacy of Instrument and Prior actions. This single-tranche DPL proved to be an
adequate instrument to support the envisaged reforms given the Bank’s long-term engagement in
social protection. Despite being a one-year operation, the definition of medium-term policy
actions at the time of preparation also committed the Government to focus on its longer-term
development strategy. The selected prior actions/triggers of this operation proved to be quite
adequate to reach the intended outcomes.

61.   A team with varied skills is necessary in a complex operation. Mixing the skills of
economists, operational, and sectoral specialists allowed for quality and cross-fertilization
between sectors. This led to a cohesive strategy not organized by thematic silos.

62.     A multi-sectoral operation is manageable if the teams are selective in choosing a few
key strategies. While the operation covered many policy areas, it only supported a few key
actions within each of them. Still, the fact that these policy areas were at different stages of
advance posed challenges of selecting appropriate indicators to monitor. However, the critical
role played by the Bank team in the supervision in this operation was to look at broad reform
programs rather than specific advances in indicators.

63.    A commitment by the clients is critical to implement a complex Government
program. The National Development Plan defined each social institution’s strategic objectives,
thereby providing a base upon which to design the Bank’s program. The social institutions were
committed to implementing the strategies.




                                              17
64.    Strong coordination on the Government’s side is necessary when many ministries
are involved. While the Bank team worked with line Ministries in defining the program, the
DNP and MHCP were constant partners, which facilitated coordination.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments submitted by Borrower were taken into account in the completion of final ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                             18
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Responsibility/
            Names                                Title                  Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Aline Coudouel                 Sr. Economist                          LCSHS Task Manager
Rodolfo Beazley                JPA                                    LCSHS
Gonzalo Javier Reyes Hartley   Sr. Social Protection Specialist       LCSHS
Diana Cardenas                 Consultant                             LCSHS
Wendy Cunningham               Lead Specialist                        HDNCY     Peer Reviewer
Carolina Sanchez-Paramo        Senior Economist                       PRMPR     Peer Reviewer
Manuel Salazar                 Sr. Social Protection Specialist       LCSHS     Peer Reviewer
Felipe Barrera                 Sr. Education Economist                HDNED     Peer Reviewer
Truman Packard                 Lead Economist                         ECSHD     Peer Reviewer
Patricia Bernedo               Sr. Program Assistant                  LCSHS
Supervision/ICR
Theresa Jones                  Lead Operations Officer                LCSHS Task Manager
Pablo Ariel Acosta             Economist                              LCSHS
Diana Cardenas                 Social Protection Economist            LCSHS
Gonzalo Javier Reyes Hartley   Sr. Social Protection Specialist       LCSHS
Patricia Bernedo               Sr. Program Assistant                  LCSHS


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY08                                                 0.23                      2,406.72
 FY09                                              13.12                       91,250.94
 FY10                                              18.42                       92,017.80



Supervision/ICR
 FY10                                               2.93                       52,032.73
 FY11                                              21.78                       87,576.51



  Total                                            31.77                       492,121.66




                                                 19
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable.




                                      20
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable.




                                       21
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     22
23
                                TRANSLATED VERSION

National Planning Department (DNP, acronym in Spanish)

Republic of Colombia

*SC - 20112300352471

Bogota, D.C., Tuesday, June 28, 2011

Ms. THERESA JONES

Operations Officer

Human Development Department

The World Bank

CLL 7 NO. 71-21 TORRE A

Bogota D.C.

Re "Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social Protection System" DPL ICR,
IBDR 7845.

Dear Mr. Bergen,

As you may have been made aware, the IBRD and the National Government of Colombia
have collaborated on the structuring and development of Development Policy Loan (DPL)
"Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social Protection System" IBDR – 7845.

Along these lines, and pursuant to the request made by the Bank to DNP regarding the
overall evaluation of the operation, the IBRD performance during the ongoing operation and
the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) document contents, we would like to make the
following remarks:

We found the design process for the operation satisfactory; the long-term policy dialogue
sustained with the Bank for several years has allowed to identify policy and strategic reforms
aimed to a more efficient, equitable and inclusive social protection system. The components
and objectives included in the project were selected in such a way that they ensured a
comprehensive progress for the social protection system, and responded to a long, cohesive
process of political commitment by the Colombian State to strengthen the social protection
system. Consequently, all the objectives included in the operation were satisfactorily
achieved. Follow-up indicators allowed monitoring progress of all relevant actions. While in



                                             24
some cases delays in meeting deadlines were identified, in other cases indicators allowed to
find some emerging challenges that were overcome in the course of this year.

The implementation process for this operation was considered successful. The project made
important progress in strengthening the social protection system. The operation provided
special support to a key phase of the consolidation process for the system, which today
continues to be a priority in the development plan, seeking to achieve inclusive growth for all
Colombians throughout the next four-year period.

Specifically regarding the ICR, we would like to bring your attention to paragraph ―2.4
Expected Next Phase/Follow–Up Operation" which states, "As a next phase, the Bank is
preparing a new operation which will continue to support elements of the social protection
system—including the Social Protection Strategy to Reduce Extreme Poverty (Unidos,
formerly called Juntos) which was supported by this operation, to continue expanding access
to social and financial services among the extreme poor". It should be made clear that the
National Government has not declared an interest in structuring a new loan operation for the
social protection system, and in this sense, we are hereby requesting that the above-
mentioned paragraph be deleted.

Along the same vein, in reference to the ICR contents we believe that the document provides
an overview adjusted to the components of the programmatic loan, which as evidenced by
the verification means matrix, required the inter-institutional work that allowed to show
progress towards the objectives and medium-term indicators to be achieved under each
action area.

In addition, regarding the accompaniment by the Bank in structuring and developing the
operation, we would like to mention that the performance was satisfactory with respect to the
technical assistance provided for the definition of structural components for the intervention
in order to reach the priority goals pursued by the National Government.

Similarly, with regard to the missions conducted for the review of medium-term indicators,
the Bank performance and its work with the various sector bodies, including the Ministry of
Social Protection, SENA, Acción Social, and DNP where timely and precise, which allowed
to consolidate the information needed to establish the level of progress for indicators on each
one of the operation components.

Finally, we should state that the interlocution between the Bank and the National
Government responded to the requests made through the Sub-Direction of Loans, which
allowed an effective coordination with all the entities involved, and the timely securing of
verification means for the matrix.

Therefore, we state our agreement with the ICR document contents, except for the above
clarification, as well as our acceptance of the Bank’s mission-related and technical
performance with regard to structuring, developing and reviewing the programmatic loan



                                              25
operation "Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social Protection System" IBDR
— 7845.

Sincerely,

(Signed)

NATALIA BARGANS BALLESTEROS

Subdirector of Loans

By: Harold Mera

Reviewed by: Natalia Bargans, Subdirector of Loans

cc Geoffrey H.Bergen, World Bank Representative in Colombia; Jose Fernando Arias,
Director of Social Development




                                           26
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                       27
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Fedesarrollo (2010), ―Evaluación de Impacto de Tres Programas y Linea de Base de Un
Programa del Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje – SENA‖, Fedesarrollo: Bogotá, Colombia.

Fedesarrollo (2010), ―Evaluación de Impacto del Programa Jóvenes Rurales Emprendedores del
Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje – SENA‖.

National Planning Department (2006), ―Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2006-2010: Estado
Comunitario, Desarrollo para Todos‖, DNP: Bogotá, Colombia.

National Planning Department (2009), ―Documento CONPES 3616: Lineamientos de la Política
de Generación de Ingresos para la Población en Situación de Pobreza Extrema y/o
Desplazamiento‖, DNP: Bogotá, Colombia.

National Planning Department (2010), ―Documento CONPES 3674: Lineamientos de Política
para el Fortalecimiento del Sistema de Formación de Capital Humano‖, DNP: Bogotá, Colombia.

National Planning Department (2010), ―Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2010-2014: Prosperidad
para Todos‖, DNP: Bogotá, Colombia.

World Bank (2005). ―Project Appraisal Document for a Social Safety Net Project in Colombia‖,
Report No. 31880-CO, World Bank: Washington, DC.

World Bank (2008). ―Project Appraisal Document for a Support for the Second-Phase of the
Expansion of the Program of Conditional Transfers – Familias en Acción Project in Colombia‖,
Report No. 45377-CO, World Bank: Washington, DC.

World Bank (2009). ―Public Training Reform Issues in Colombia: The Case of SENA‖, World
Bank: Washington, DC.

World Bank (2010). ―Informality in Colombia: Implications for Worker Welfare and Firm
Productivity‖, World Bank: Washington, DC.

World Bank (2010). ―La Informalidad y Productividad Laboral y su Relación con las Políticas de
Empleo y Protección Social en Colombia‖, World Bank: Washington, DC.

World Bank (2008). ―Program Document for a Development Policy Loan on Promoting an
Inclusive, Equitable, and Efficient Social Protection System in Colombia‖, Report No. 51143-
CO, World Bank: Washington, DC.




                                             28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 33388R
                                                                             75°W                                                                                                      70°W
                                                                                                                                     Puerto Bolívar

                C a r i bb e an S e a                                                                                                                 J   IR
                                                                                                                                                               A
                                                                                                                 Ríohacha                          UA
                                                                                                                                               G           To
                                                                           Santa Marta
                                                                                                                                        LA              Maracaibo
                                                                    Barranquilla                              Pico
                                                                                                              Cristóbal Colón
                                                 AT L Á N T I C O                                             (5,775 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                         COLOMBIA




                                                                                                          A
                                                     Cartegena                                                                 Valledupar




                                                                                                    N
                                                                                                LE
                                                                                            DA
10°N
                                                                        Maganqué                              CESAR                                    Lago de




                                                                                      AG
                                                                                                                                                      Maracaibo




                                                                                     M
                                                             Sincelejo
        PA
               NA                                                                           El Baneo



                                                                         SU
                                                                         SU
                                                   Monteria
                    M
                                                                             C
                                                                             CR



                                                                                                  AR
                                     Acandí                                                                                    NORTE DE

                                                                                  E
                                                                                  E
                                                                                                              Ocaña
                    A




                                                                                                                              SANTANDER



                                                                                               LÍV
                                               Turbo                     A
                                                           D        OB                                                                              To                                                 R.B. DE
                                                                                           BO
                                                        ÓR
                                                                                                                                                   Mérida
                                                                                                                                    Cúcuta
                                                    C                                                                                                                                                VENEZUELA
                                                                               uca


                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                             Ca
                                                    Cord
                                                    C d




                                                                                                                                                                      Guasdualito
                                                                                                   Bucaramanga
                                                                        Yarumal
                                                                                                    le   na                                                               Arauca
                                                     iller




                                                                                                 da               Socorro
                                                           ANTIOQUIA                       Ma
                                                                                             g
                                                                                                                                                                ARAUCA




                                                                                                                                             CÁ
                                          Atra



                                                         r




                                                                                                                               ER
                                                        a O




                                                                                                               AND                                                    Casanare
  PAC IF IC                                                                                    SANT
                                              to




                                                                                                                                        YA
                                                          Occi




                                                                     Medellin                                                                                                                                             Puerto

                                                                                                                                      BO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Carreño
  OC E AN
                                                           d i
                                                           dental




                                      Quibdo                                           Chiquinquirá                                                                                         Puerto
                                                                              S                                                                       CASANARE
                                     CHOCÓ                                LDA                                             Tunja
                                                                                                                                                                                            Nueva
                                                                     CA
                                                                      Manizales  CUNDINA-                                                      Yopal
5°N                                  RISARALDÁ                                                                                                                                                             Santa Rita                            5°N
                                                   Cartago           Pereira        MARCA
                                                                                            BOGOTÁ                                                                                     VICHADA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Atacavi
                                                                                                                                                          ta
                                                                     Armenia                                                                           Me
                                         QUINDIO
                                                                                            tal
                                                                                                                                                         San Pedro        Gaviotas
                                                                    Ibaque       Giradot
                                                                                         en     Villavincencio                                     Chaviva
                                                                                                                                                                                       Vich
                                                                                                                                                                                            a   da
                                                                                      ri
                                                                    al




                                                                              M A a O DISTRITO
                        Buenaventura                    Buga
                                                                 ntr




                            VALLE DEL                                      LI                                                                                                                                        Puerto
                                                                      TO
                                                       Palmira                                                                                                                                                       Inirída
                                                               Ce



                                                                                er




                                                                                                         CAPITAL
                                                                              ill




                             CAUCA Cali                                                                                             M E TA
                                                                             rd
                                                             a




                                                                                               San Juan
                                                           er


                                                                        Co




                                                                                              de Arama
                                                        ill




                                                                 Neiva                                                                                 Guaviare
                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUAINÍA
                                                     rd




                              CAUCA                              HULA                                                                                                            Mapiripana                    Tabaquén
                                                   Co




                                                                                                                                              San José
                            Guapí Popayan                                                                                                     del Guaviare                                                  Brujas
                                                                                      San Vicente
                                                                     Garzon           del Caguán
                                                                                                                                             Calamar
                    Patía
      Tumaco




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Neg
                                                                     Florencia                                                       G U AV I A R E
                NARIÑO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ro
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  San Rafael
                                                                                                                                       Miraflores                               Mitu
                             Pasto
                                                                                     Cagu




                                                   Mocoa                                                                                                              Vau
                                                                                                                                                                          pés
                                                                                         án




                                                                                                                                                                                                Yavarate
                      To
                               Ipiales    PUTUM                                               CAQUETÁ                                                               VA U P É S
                                         Puerto              AY
                    Ibarra
                                           Asis                     O                                                               Macujer
                                                                                                   Puerto
                                                                                                   Huitoto
0°N                                                                                       Puerto                                                                                                                                                 0°N
                                                                                          Leguízamo                       Puerto                                           Lérida
               E C U A DOR                                                                                                Pizarro
                                                                                                                                                       Caq
                                                                                                                                                          u   etá
                                                                                                                                       Puerto
                                                                                                                                    Santander
                                                                                                                                                                        Locas de
                                                                                                               Ptu                                                      Cahuinari
                                                                                                                   ma
                                                                                                                      y
        CO LOMB I A
                                                                                                                          o                                                            La Pedrera
                                                                                                                                                   AMAZONAS
                                                                                                                                El Encanto

               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                             BRAZI L
               DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                PERU
               RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        World Bank. The boundaries,
               MAIN ROADS                                                0            80                 160                  240         320 Kilometers                                                                colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        any other information shown
               RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                Leticia                 the part of The World Bank
                                                                         0           40          80            120             160        200 Miles                                                                     Group, any judgment on the
               DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or
               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                 acceptance of such
                                                                             75°W                                                                                                      70°W                             boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FEBRUARY 2009
