Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5220 
Operation Name 
DPL on Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social 
Protection System 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P106708 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Depart
amento Nacional de Planeación 
Calle 26 No.13-19 
Bogotá 
Colombia 
Tel: (57-1) 596-0300   
Jarias@dnp.gov.co 
Date PID Prepared 
November 30, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 23, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
February 18, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
The Colombian economy is facing the impacts of a sharp aggregate demand contraction, but 
sound macroeconomic policies implemented in recent years have substantially improved the 
country’s economic resilience against the crisis. In the near term, economic activity is likely to 
reverse its decline and the Bank’s base scenario for Colombia includes GDP growth of 0.4 
percent in 2009 and a modest rebound of economic activity in 2010. Despite the impact of global 
conditions, Colombia is in a better position to confront the global crisis than other LAC 
countries, as a result of its countercyclical monetary policy and fiscal stimulus over 2009. While 
there remains uncertainty as regards to the depth and length of the global recession, neither 
external nor fiscal sustainability appear at risk. 
 
Page  2
Over the past few years, the Government’s strategy in social protection has focused mostly on 
expansion of coverage for core social assistance, social insurance (health and old-age), and 
training programs. In addition, the Government has focused on issues of efficiency, as illustrated, 
among others, by the effort to develop a national targeting system which can be used by all 
programs to reach the poorest and most vulnerable and by the efforts to design and begin the 
implementation of core information systems. Despite important gains, challenges remain in 
particular in expanding the coverage of social insurance and strengthening programs to foster 
employability through training, labor intermediation, and unemployment services. Efforts are 
also required to reach the poorest and most vulnerable families and to promote greater 
coordination of programs. 
 
The crisis has highlighted both the strengths and the weaknesses of the existing social protection 
system. The crisis and the response of the Government have shown that core social protection 
programs were able to protect the poorest and that the system could function within a crisis 
context. This is the legacy of a decade of investment in programs and information systems. 
However, the crisis also highlighted remaining needs for greater coverage of social insurance 
programs and active labor market policies, and better integration.  
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The operation proposes to consolidate past gains, seek cost-cutting measures and increases in 
efficiency, and supports the reform agenda in areas that need strengthening and consolidation. 
The aim is to build the basis for a social protection system that is more 
inclusive
,
equitable
 and 
efficient.
 To this end, the operation supports actions in a broad range of areas. In particular, the 
proposed reform agenda includes: (i) efforts to increase the coverage of 
inclusive
 systems 
serving the entire population such as the national training and labor intermediation system or 
health insurance, (ii) efforts to build an 
equitable 
system that serves the poor and vulnerable 
through improved targeting and coordination of social assistance and greater efforts to reach the 
poorest, and (iii) efforts to increase the 
efficiency
 of social protection through improved 
information systems, rationalization, simplification of processes, and improvements in program 
design.  
Within this framework, the development objective of the operation is to strengthen an 
inclusive
,
equitable
 and 
efficient
 social protection system by: (1) promoting greater integration, efficiency 
and equity of social insurance, (2) improving the targeting, efficiency, and articulation of social 
assistance programs, and (3) promoting higher quality training and employment services.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy for FY08-11 is based on Colombia’s 
PND. It supports the pillars of the PND through five areas of concentration including peace, 
poverty alleviation and equity of opportunity, sustained equitable growth, environmental 
sustainability, and good governance. The Social Protection System and its programs are the 
cornerstone of the poverty and equity pillar.
 
The operation would help make progress towards 
the poverty and equity objective through, among others, the definition of effective targeting 
Page  3
mechanisms and information systems, the strengthening of institutions, the coordination of 
programs, and the promotion of active labor market policies.
 
Over the past years, the Bank has developed a strong programmatic engagement, through 
knowledge and lending services. Both the Bank and the Government have expressed a strong 
interest in continuing this programmatic engagement in the sector of social protection. In the 
coming years, such support is expected to include a programmatic mix of knowledge services, 
financial services and strategy and coordination services. While the exact mix of instruments will 
be defined in light of country needs and Bank capacity, each element would support the 
consolidation of earlier reforms, support the implementation of the next generation of reforms, 
and contribute to the design of the following generation of reforms.  
 
4. Financing 
Single Tranche Development Policy Loan of US$300.0 million.  
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) is responsible for the implementation of the 
operation. The National Planning Department (DNP) plays a central role on the technical front, 
and is in charge of coordinating actions among the concerned agencies (including MHCP, DNP, 
the Ministries of Social Protection and Education, the SENA and 
Acci
ón
social)
.
Within DNP, 
the Sub-Direction for Public Credit is responsible for the coordination, preparation and 
supervision of the operation, and the Social Development Direction is in charge of the technical 
coordination with other agencies and within DNP as well as of the monitoring of outcomes.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
The operation is subject to four risks, which are overall expected to be moderate as the 
Government has implemented mitigation strategies focusing on strengthening institutions and 
institutional arrangements, designing strong norms and regulations, monitoring and evaluating 
programs, increasing efficiency, disseminating information, and engaging in broad dialogues. 
o
Macroeconomic risks
.
A
risk arises from the potential deterioration of macroeconomic 
conditions. The risk is mitig
ated by an improved global outlook, as well as the Government’s 
sound macroeconomic policies, flexible exchange rate, and savvy management of external 
debt and international reserves, endorsed by the IMF during its review of its Flexible Line 
Credit in October 2009.  
o
Transition-related risks.
 Presidential elections are planned for May 2010 and a change in 
leadership could cause instability. This risk is mitigated in Colombia, which has a strong 
tradition of policy continuity, by the involvement of key stakeholders in the elaboration of 
the social protection reform program, by the continued emphasis on principles of results-
based management, and by efforts to strengthen institutions and systems. During the electoral 
campaign, the team will use the World Bank group’s engagement with candidates and their 
parties to present its recommendations for the key policies supported by this operation 
Page  4
o
Social sectors-specific risks:
 These risks include:  
-
Complexity: some reforms, including the development of central information systems or 
reforms in the job training system, require intense coordination across agencies. To 
address this concern, the Government has focused on building strong institutional 
memory; designing legal and regulatory frameworks with the involvement of all actors; 
providing technical assistance; and adopting reasonable implementation schedules.  
-
Pressure by interest groups: Opposition by groups who perceive they will be negatively 
affected could arise in the area of reforms to the job training system (monopolistic service 
providers, formal education institutions, etc.) as well as changes to health financing 
mechanisms (insurance companies or service providers). To mitigate these, the 
Government has engaged in active dialogues, in particular in setting requirements and 
designing systems, and has designed gradual reforms, often including transition measures 
for the periods of change.  
-
Fiscal pressure: Transfers to the public pension system (annual transfer of 3.5 percent of 
GDP), and the expansion of coverage of the health insurance program and efforts to 
respond to Colombia’s Supreme Court request are likely to create fiscal pressures. Efforts 
to improve efficiency through stronger institutions and information systems supported by 
this operation, together with broader cost-cutting efforts in hospital management, should 
help mitigate these risks.  
o
Risks related to violence:
 While the risks of internal violence (leading to displacement of the 
population and potential interruption in the supply of core government services) remain, the 
Government is credited with a significant improvement in internal violence, through a policy 
of demobilization and reintegration of ex-combatants, and systematic persecution of illegal 
combatants. 
The benefits from the operation are expected to be substantial, and are presented in more details 
in the section on Poverty and Social Impacts below.   
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The policies supported by the operation focus on an 
inclusive
,
equitable
 and 
efficient 
social 
protection system aimed at improving social outcomes. Expected outcomes include:  
a.  An increase in the accuracy of targeting of core social programs and with more accurate 
transfers for subsidized health insurance, which should both benefit the bottom two quintiles 
of the population,  
b. An increase in the coverage of basic services for the poorest families through the 
implementation of the 
Juntos
 strategy, including psychosocial accompaniment and 
preferential access to social services,  
c.  An improvement in health outcomes for children under 12 enrolled in the subsidized health 
insurance regime (poorest two quintiles) through a broader package of services,  
d.  Improvements in the situation of the displaced and indigenous communities, through tailored 
efforts to include them in the 
Juntos 
strategy and 
Familias en Acción 
program.  
Page  5
e.  Greater labor market earnings through increased access to job training and apprenticeship, 
especially for the poor targeted by the 
Juntos 
strategy and the apprenticeship program, and  
f. 
More generally, more efficient programs and greater coverage through the rationalization or 
adjustment of programs and redirection of saved resources toward those most in need.  
Most of these expected impacts are well-documented in the literature for either Colombia or 
other countries and the Government is keen to continue monitoring the long-run impacts of its 
policies, as well as undertaking specific studies when necessary.  
Following OP 8.60, the operation was reviewed for any potential effects relating to the 
environment, forest, and natural resources. As this operation focuses on strengthening 
institutions, policy framework, and the quality of social protection in Colombia, it has been 
determined that the operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment.  
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Aline Coudouel 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-3495 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: acoudouel@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
