Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social Protection System in Colombia
                                                                                                        94064
                                                                                                        April 16, 2012




 Promoting an Inclusive, Equitable and Efficient Social Protection System
 in Colombia


Overview
In 2010, the World Bank set out to help the Government of Colombia in its efforts to help its
very poorest citizens through a range of structural reforms, including improvements to its health
insurance system, a more streamlined public pension scheme, and preferential access to social
services for approximately 1.25 million families.


Challenge
Prior to 2009, Colombia experienced a period of six years of
                                                                   More Results
economic growth averaging 5 percent annually, which was
higher than the regional average. This growth was

                                                                   1.25
accompanied by moderate poverty reduction, but extreme
poverty and income inequality were virtually unchanged. At
the same time, several challenges remained, especially in

                                                                   million
terms of the limited coverage of the pension and health
systems, and unemployment insurance, which were available
mostly to formal workers (with the exception of health).
                                                                   extreme poor families receive
Similarly, programs aimed at fostering employability, such as      family counseling and
training, labor intermediation, and other employment               preferential access to social
                                                                   services
services, were not reaching the lower segments of the
population. While social assistance programs (such as
conditional cash transfers, or access to social services)

                                                                   9.7
implemented in the last decade have significantly improved
opportunities for poor families, a critical challenge is to
enhance the coordination between these programs.


Approach
                                                                   million
                                                                   is the number of affiliates to the
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development          social security system by
(IBRD) approved a Development Policy Lending operation to          December 2010
support policies in a broad range of areas, from pension
institutions to active labor market policies, in which the Bank


                                                                   63
has been working with the Government over the past
decade.

                                                                   new training institutions had
Results                                                            been quality certified by ISO
                                                                   9001 v. 2000 by December 2010
In particular, this operation supported reforms to: (1) improve
the collection of contributions for a more efficient
management of social insurance; (2) consolidate the public
                                                                  LEARN MORE
pension system for greater efficiency; (3) promote an
equitable and sustainable health insurance system; (4)               Promoting an Inclusive,
address extreme poverty through an integral strategy of              Equitable and Efficient Social
tailored support and preferential access to social services;         Protection System, (2010-
                                                                     2011)DNP
(5) increase programs’ impact through a more agile targeting
system; (6) promote greater integration and efficiency
through improved information systems and increased
monitoring and evaluation; (7) strengthen the national training
system to offer relevant and high quality training; (8)
establish labor market intermediation and unemployment services that promote effective entry
into the labor force; and (9) adapt training programs and active labor market policies to the
poorest and most vulnerable.
The project’s key outcomes, drawing upon data provided by the National Planning Department
of Colombia, are the following:

       Approximately 1.25 million extreme poor families from almost all municipalities in the
       country receive family counseling and preferential access to social services under the
       Juntos strategy, up from 900,000 in December 2009.

       The number of affiliates to the social security system reached 9.7 million by December
       2010, up from 6.8 million in December 2009.

       The benefits of the subsidized (non-contributory) health insurance regime for children
       under-12 are now equivalent to those in the contributory regime.

       Around 63 new training institutions had been quality certified by ISO 9001 v. 2000 by
       December 2010.



Bank Contribution
IBRD provided Colombia a US$500 million loan facility to support the implementation of the
stated reforms.  In parallel to this operation, the Bank also provided complementary technical
assistance in the form of seminars, policy notes, short technical briefs, as well as direct
comments and suggestions for the technical aspects of some of the regulation and policy
design in social protection areas.


Moving Forward
The Bank is engaged in a very active dialogue with the Government of Colombia on the
policies related to improving its social protection system, and provides the authorities with
continuous technical support in selected areas. The Bank continues to provide knowledge
services to the sector, as well as support to one of the core social assistance programs
( Familias en Acción ) through an ongoing investment lending operation. Additionally, the Bank
is preparing another loan operation designed to support fiscal sustainability and growth
resilience, which supports the improved management of social sector liabilities, particularly in
the health sector.


Beneficiaries
Improvements in social sector management benefit all citizens through more efficient and
transparent central administration, through better access to public service delivery, and through
better quality and access to public information.
