Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
.  Al.
Report No. P-4132-CH
REPORT .4nD RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONIAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$40.0 MILLION
TO
CORPORACION DE FOMENTO DE LA PRODUCCION (CORFO)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
July 31, 1985
--This docmenft hs a restritedi distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disosed without World Bank authorizaion.



(Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (CbS))
Calendar 1984
-Currency'Unit          Average           Dec. 31, 1984        July 1, 1985
US$1                Ch$98.478             Ch$128.5             Ch$169 .0
Ch$l                US$ 0.010             US$  0.008           US$  0.006
Ch$1,000            US$10.127             US$  7.782           US$  5.917
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
7
AHBRNETIIOIS
CB               - Banco Central de Chile
gCentral Bank of Chile)
CORFO            - Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
(Production Development Corporation)
IDB              - Inter-American Development Bank
IFC              - International Finance Corporation
INACAP           - Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion Profesional
(National Institute of Professional Training)
PAEM             - Programa de Apoyo a Empresas Artesanales
(Support Program for Artisan Enterprises)
SERCOTEC         - Servicio de Cooperacion Tecnica
(Technical Cooperation Institute)
SMI              - Small and Medium Scale Industry
UF               - Unidad de Fomento
(Financial Unit of Account which reflects
the movements in the country's Consumer
Price Index)



-NPUBl«IC o3, cu                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SMALL AnD  HIU INDUSTY PROJECT
LOAN AUlD PBOJET S_UEr
Borrower:     Corporac4on de Fomento de la Produccion (CORFO)
--4       Guarantor:   The Republic of Chile
Executing
AgencyXs1>:  Servicio de Cooperacion Tenica (SERCOTEC)
Amount:       USS40 million equivalent
Terms:        Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:      CORFO would onlend the proceeds of the loan, either directly or
through financial intermediaries, to small and medium scale in-
dustrial enterprises (SMI) and would participate in equity in-
vestments under a Risk Capital Fund. CORFO would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank Loan and the comLercial risk
on subloans-and investments made by it thereunder. Commercial
baiiks would bear the commercial risk of the subprojects
-                       financed through them. Annual interest payments by participat-
ing commercial banks and project beneficiaries would be over
outstanding loan balances adjusted by the Chilean Consumer
Price Index, which is reflected in a monetary unit of account
CuF). The interest rate charged to participating banks would
be five percent on UF for medium-scale industry subloans, and
four percent on UF for small-scale industry subloans.   The in-
terest rate charged to project beneficiaries would be eight
percent on UF with the exception of artisans who will pay in-
terest at the same rate as participating banks. The adequacy
of these rates would be reviewed every six months. A one per-
cent front-end fee would be charged on all credit operations.
Subloans for fixed assets and associated working capital would
have a repayment period of up to ten years, including a m-aximum
of three years grace. Subloans for free-standing working capi-
tal would be repayable over a period of up to five years, in-
cluding up to one year grace.  Export promotion and technology
improvement subloans would have a repayment period of up to
five years, including up to two years grace.
Project
Description: The proposed project would promote employment, productivity and
output in small and medium scale industries (SKI), through an
integrated credit and technical assistance program. It would
also strengthen the management and technical skills of those
institutions involved in the program.
--:;Thisdouent has arestricted distdbutionand may be used byxrecipients only in the pformance of
thek officialdutes. Ictsnts ynot oftrwse be disclosed without World Bank authorination.



:                                  ~~~~~~~- ii-
- ~~Project
Benefits:       The proposed project would represent a significant step in
helping the Chilean Government to address the problems af-
fecting small and medium scale industry, and would promote
the participation of selected commercial banks, thus enabling
many SMI to have access to the banking system. The project
would also help potential exporters to find foreign markets.
Project Risks: There are no unusual risks involving the project.
One potential risk is that the recent financial crisis
may have affected investors attitudes, and credit demand may
be lover than expected. Another risk is that expected
commercial bank participation may not be fully achieved.
Nevertheless, since a substantial part of the loan is ex-
pected to be processed by SERCOTEC and CORFO, failure of com-
mercial banks to participate, would not seriously affect the
utilization of the loan.
Estimated Costs:                Local         Foreign       Total
CIE Millions of US Dollars)
Credit Component                25.5          36.0           61.5
Artisan Industries             4.0           4.0            8.0
Small Scale Enterprises       10.0          15.0           25.0
Medium Scale Enterprises      10.0           15.0          25.0
Export Promotion               1.1            1.6           2.7
Technology Development         0.4           0.4            0.8
Risk Capital Component           8.0            2.0          10.0
Technical Assistance and
Training Comxponent            1.5           2.0            3.5
Consulting Services            0.4           0.9            1.3
Vehicles and Equipment          -            0.3            0.3
Management Training            0.6           0.6            1.2
Project Evaluation Seminar     0.5           0.2            0.7
Total Project Cost              35.0          40.0           75.0
Financg Plan
Government                    12.3           _             12.3
Participating Banks            4.0           -              4.0
Beneficiaries                 18.7           -             18.7
Bank                           0.0          40.0           40.0
Total                    35.0          40.0           75.0



f~~~Rt of Bean                   No l;pp:'i::ca;b:le
Staff ,-al Reor:          eprN.57HdaedJl- iii -
.:     ~Disbuzsets:                   (Banlk YT in millions of US Dollars)
-                        ~~~~~~~~1986    198@7    1988    1989    1990    1991
*       ~~Annual                  5.0    10.0    14.5      5.0      3.0     2.5
:      ~~Cumultire                5.0    15.0    29.5    34.5    37.5    40.0
. .     IRate of Rleturn¢:       Nlot applicable
Staf Appraisal Rleport:  Rleport No. 5579-C}I, dated July 16, 1985
:.



JRPOWR AND RUCON  EENmI0 Or TER PRfUIs3! OF TIEIThD
TO T1C EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
CORPORACIOI DE FONEMTO DE Lk PRODUCCION (CORFO)
FOR A SKALL AID M'IUN INDUSTRY PROJECT
1*        I submit the following report and recomn'endation on a proposed loan
-*         to Corporacion de Pomento de la Produccion (COGfO) for the equivalent of
US$40.0 million to help finance a Small and Medium Industry Project.  The
-X-       Republic of Chile would guarantee the loan.  The proposed loan would have a
term of 15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate. CORFO would onlend the proceeds of the loan, either directly
or through financial intermediaries, to small- and mediar-scale industrial
enterprises (SRI) and would participate in equity investments under a Risk
Capital Fund. CORFO would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank Loan
and the commercial risk on subloans and investments made by it thereunder.
Annual interest payments by participating commercial banks, who would assume
the commercial risk on their subloans, and project beneficiaries, would be
over outstanding loan balances adjusted by the Chilean Consumer Price Index,
which is reflected in a monetary unit of account (UF). The interest rate
charged to participating banks would be five percent on UF for medium-scale
industry subloans, and four percent on U? for small-scale industry subloans.
The interest rate charged to project beneficiaries would be eight percent on
UP with the exception of artisans who will pay interest at the same rate as
participating banks.  The adequacy of these rates would be reviewed semiannu-
ally. A one percent front-end fee would be charged on all credit opera-
tions. Subloans for fixed assets and associated working capital would have a
repayment period of up to ten years, including a maximum of three years
grace.  Subloans for free-standimg working capital would be repayable over a
period of up to five years, including up to one year grace.  Export promo-
tion and technology improvement subloans would have a repayment period of up
to five years, including up to two years grace.
PAR! I - TEE BCONOHY
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CH) was circulated
to the Board on September 24, 1984. The following paragraphs are based on
the conclusions contained in that memorandum and on information gathered by
subsequent missions that visited Chile in November 1984 and January and April
1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Evolution of the Economy to the end of 1983
3.        For the past century, Chile's economic development has been charac-
terized by high dependence on one or two mineral exports. Buoyant copper and
nitrate revenues, and their considerable export taxes, accustomed Chileans to
high levels of government outlays and sophisticated benefit systems without a
corresponding tax sacrifice. The Great Depression then devastated Chile.
By 1932, the real value of Chile's exports had fallen 82 percent, the real
value of imports by 87 percent, and real per capita GDP 50 percent. Post-De-
pression Governments expanded state ownership and followed extreme import-
substitution policies which often led to overvalued exchange rates supported
by high levels of tariff and nontariff protection. Negative real interest



-2-
rates, low administered prices for food and other wage goods, and legally
mandated wage adjustments were combined with high and growing levels of
social benefits. These policies were overlaid by tax exemptions, tariffs,
controls, and subsidies in pursuit of special distributional or allocative
objectives. All these activities required a substantial shift of resources
to the public sector, a shift accomplished to a significant degree by infla-
tionary monetary expansion and foreign borrowing. In spite of this, in the
post-Depression decades, Chile experienced slow growth, rapid inflation, fre-
quent balance of payments crises, a growing foreign debt burden, a highly
protected and inefficient manufacturing sector, and continued dependence on a
single primary export commodity, copper.
4.        The Popular Unity Government of 1971-73 continued these policies;
indeed, it took many to extreme lengths. In early 1971, it raised real wages
considerably and followed highly expansionary fiscal and monetary policies as
well. The exchange rate and interest rates were greatly lagged behind the
increasing inflation, an inflation that accelerated in spite of massive price
controls and direct state allocation of many consumer goods. The pressure on
the balance of payments from these activities became unsustainable; by end-
1971 Chile was unable to service its foreign debt and the economy began en-
countering severe financial, and economic constraints. By 1973 real per
capita GDP and real wages had fallen far below the levels of 1970, agricul-
tural output had dropped to the level of the early 1960s, monthly inflation
had reached an annualized rate above 1,000 percent, the deficit of the
Central Government alone exceeded 20 percent of GDP, the black market ex-
change rate had risen to over ten times the official rate, and net interna-
tional reserves were negative.
The 1974-1980 Adjuatieat Program
5.        After a one-year hiatus, the next Government undertook a severe ad-
justment program. Its development strategy included the phased introduction
of low and even import tariffs, state enterprise pricing based on opportunity
and/or actual costs, decentralized social programs, positive and flexible in-
terest rates, reduction of wage taxes, virtual freeing of all product and
factor prices, innovative nutrition and education programs with benefits and
subsidies targeted to the poor, and a major social security reform. After an
initial recession, the effect of these policies and programs was highly posi-
tive.
6.        Between 1976-1980 real economic growth averaged 8.5 percent per
year; by 1977, GDP in real terms had returned to 1971-1972 levels; by 1980
annual inflation was reduced to 30 percent. The balance of payments position
improved markedly; the value of agricultural and manufactured exports grew
more than sevenfold between 1973 and 1978. Copper revenues -- traditionally
over 80 percent of export receipts -- had been reduced to half of total ex-
port earnings. Net foreign reserves during the 1973-78 period averaged over
US$1.5 billion. By 1978, real wages and salaries had recovered to their 1970
levels and rose further as worker productivity increased. Unfortunately, the
unemployment rate fell slowly, in spite of a major emergency employment pro-
gram. The efficiency of the State enterprises improved greatly, and the
public sector had an overall surplus by the later 1970s.



3
7.        While the Government was eager to reduce the economic role of the State,
it was equally determined to improve the quality of, and access to, social serv-
ices to the poor. Previous income distribution policies and program-- such as
price controls, public housing, cheap credit, factor subsidies, tax exemptions and
broadly-based social expenditure programs -  not only had had perverse growth ef-
fects, but often had been of equal or, in some cases, great benefit to the urban
middle class than to the poor. From the mid-seventies on although the Government
spent less on the social sectors than predecessor governments (public social out-
lays only reached 1972 levels in real per capita terms in 1980), it carefully tar-
geted its spending on the extreme poor through series of health and education re-
forms that lowered substantially Chile's infant mortality and child malnutrition
rates.
8.        After 1980, economic conditions changed with a major shift in macroeco-
nomic policy and the later world recession. On July 1, 1979 the Government ended
its pre-announced crawling peg policy and fixed the Chilean Peso at CbS39:USS1.
This, combined with greatly lessened restrictions on external capital flows and
public sector surpluses, was expected to adjust domestic inflation quickly to in-
ternational levels. Unfortinately, the time lag in the adjustment of inflation,
combined with the subsequent appreciation of the US dollar and the 1981-83 world
recession, produced an unsustainable boom financed by massive inflows of foreign
borrowings. Between end-1979 and end-1981, Chile's private external debt
tripled.
9.        The appreciation of the peso -- combined with the growing world reces-
sion -- finally had an overvhelming effect as Chile's export earnings and inflows
of foreign savings both dropped. By the end of 1981, Chile's economy entered a
recession. The lag in adjusting Chile's foreign exchange policy led the economy
from recession into depression. In 1982 GDP fell 14 percent as the real value-
added in construction, which had boomed in 1980/81, dropped almost 22 percent and
the real value-added in commerce and transport decreased by 15 percent and ten
percent, respectively. Manufacturing value-added declined by 22 percent. Real
fixed investment fell almost 37 percent, a drop which was all the more discourag-
Ing because the country had only begun to improve its infrastructure, which had
deteriorated greatly during the 1970s.
10.       As the economy entered the depression, unemployment soared to 19 percent
by 1982. The financial situation of many firms and banks deteriorated. As early
as November 1981, the Government assumed responsibility for day-to-day management
of a few insolvent banks, but the situation worsened considerably in 1982, with a
series of bankruptcies. The crisis finally forced the Government to devalue in
June 1982, and subsequently follow a crawling peg exchange rate policy. In
January 1983, after the IMF agreed to an SDR 795 million Stand-by, a financial
crisis was triggered by massive banking insolvencies and a huge capital outflow.
The Government liquidated some banks and intervened 1/ others, providing immedi-
ate liquidity to avoid collapse of the financial system. A "shadow program" -- by
which the original targets could be met by September -- was then drawn up. By
end-July, agreement was reached with foreign banks, providing Chile with much-
needed financial support.
1/   "Intervention" in the Chilean context, means the taking over, by the
Superintendency of Banks, of the day-to-day management of financial
institutions, without affecting the institution's ownership structure.



-4-
Recent Economic 3evlomaents
11.       The depression bottomed out in late 1983.  A growing public investment
program and Central Bank financing of domestic debt reschedulings supported a
strong increase in demand and production in the first semester of 1984. A March
agreement with its international creditors provided Chile with $780 mill±on in
fresh medium-term capital and a major increase in short-term debt followed. As a
result, GDP sr.ew E.3 percent. Industrial, agricultural and fishing output all
grew faster than GDP.  Enployment increased sharply; 250,000 more productive jobs
were created -- a 9.2 percent increase - allowing the Government to reduce
137,000 jobs in its emergency-work programs while unemployment dropped to a 13.3
percent rate -- its lowest since 1981.
12.       Despite an almost ten percent volume increase in noncopper exports,
Chile's export earnings - denominated in US dollars -- dropped five percent.
Copper prices dropped 12 percent to the lowest real level since the 1930s, so that
Chile's record volume of copper exports did not lead to increased copper re-
ceipts. Noncopper exports also suffered price drops -- 4.5 percent -- reducing
the earnings from the volume expansion of agricultural and industrial export pro-
ducts which increased by 31 and 7.7 percent, respectively. After two years of
heavy import compression, the 1984 recovery led to imports of $3.3 billion, an 18
percent increase over 1983. Capital imports grew fastest -- 44 percent. To cope
with the growing foreign trade imbalance and to ameliorate the reduction in copper
tax revenues, the Government increased import tariffs to a 35 percent uniform rate
while devaluing by 23 percent in September 1984.
Prospects
13.       The Chilean recovery remains precarious.  A severe earthquake, which
struck the country on March 3, 1985, causing an excess of US$500 million in dam-
age, has made economic recovery even more arduous. Growth is severely constrained
by foreign exchange limitations. The external debt - including short-term debt
- nearly equalled 1984 GDP; interest payments on it were over 45 percent of the
country's exports.  Increased export earnings depend, in part, on a rapid expan-
sion of its noncopper exports.  Even with strong gains in export vo'Lumes, Chile's
prospects are linked to its terms of trade and - given its high debt burden --
world interest rates. Chile's terms of trade are expected to improve only
slightly in 1985, based on current Bank commodity price projections. Interest
payments have been reduced as a result of the 1985/86 external debt renegotiations
with Chile's international creditor banks.
14.       A three-year EFF program recently approved by the IKF and a new commer-
cial banks financial package providing US$1.1 billion in new money, as well as the
reduced interest payments, will suppcrt the country's 1985-86 recovery. Still,
for moderate GDP growth of about 2.5 to three percent to continue over the medium
term, Chile would not only need to increase domestic savings and accelerate ex-
ports; it will also need further substantial net inflows of capital. So far.
Chile has made determined efforts to increase the export incentives in the
economy. Folloving a 5-point reduction in February, on July 1, 1985, the
Government reduced import tariffs from 30 to 20 parcent, devalued the peso 8.4
percent to compensate for the tariff decrease, announced an easing of reserve
requirements to banks lending to exporters and reduced taxes for export-related
activities. The Government's realistic exchange rate and trade policy are
expected to lead to a strong volume expansion of noncopper exports, and most of
these exports have better market prospects than copper. The public investment



-5-
program is now oriented to support more strongly a productive recovery. Private
incentives are also being oriented to export expansion or efficient
import-substitution as well as to employment and savings generation. All these
measures have increased the country's creditworthiness and the Authorities have
just defined a recovery program which the Bank proposes to support with a struc-
tural adjustment loan now under preparation. The proposed project would support
such a program; it would stimulate investment in small and medium industry, there-
by increasing production.
PAR! II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN 'rILE
15.       By June 30, 1985, the Bank had made 33 loans to Chile, amounting to
US$851.6 million (net of cancellations) of which seven were not yet fully dis-
bursed. IDA had also extended a US$22.9 million credit to the country for a road
project. IFC gross commitments in Chile as of the same date stood at US$126.4
million. Annex II has further details on IBRD and IFC operations as at March 31,
1985.
16.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 35 percent has been for roads,
17 percent for power, 16 percent for agriculture (including irrigation), 12 per-
cent for industry, 8 percent for housing, 5 percen'- for mining, 4 percent for
water supply, and the balance (3 percent) for education and technical assistance.
17.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated sub-
stantially in accordance, inter alia. with the country's economic performance and
th., availability of suitable projects.  In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four
loans totalling US$107.8 million to help finance projects in the agriculture, cop-
per mining and power sectors. The Bank did not lend to Chile in FY78-79, but in
FY80 it approved a US$38 million loan for a water supply project and, in FY81, two
loans in the amounts of US$36 million and US$42 million for a second agricultural
credit project and a highway reconstruction project, respectively. During FY82-
85, five Bank loans were approved: a US$128 million Second Highway Reconstruction
Loan, a US$56 million loan for Agricultural Services and Credit, a US$80 million
loan for Public Sector Housing, a US$11 million Public Sector Management Technical
Assistance Loan, and a US$140 million Road Sector Loan. During FY86 one loan has
thus far been approved, a US$100 million Financial Restructuring Loan for the
industrial sector. The Bank has also modified existing operations to permit
almost US$25 million in proceeds to be used for earthquake-related emergency
repairs and reconstruction, principally in the transport sector, but also in
housing.
18.       Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has been satisfactory.
Disbursement of Bank loans to Chile reached US$32.6 million in FY82.  Then in
FY83, with Chile's current depression at its nadir, disbursements declined to
US$22.3 million. This was in large measure because of the two-year lending hiatus
as well as the fact that farmers' debt burden and investment uncertainty in the
agricultural sector created disbursement problems for the FY81 agricultural credit
project; however, modifications to this project have helped expedite disburse-
ments, and it is now expected that this loan will be fully disbursed by the clos-
ing date. Disbursements on Bank loans in FY85 reached their highest historical
level of US$67.7 million.
19.       The Bank's present lending strategy is to support the Government's
medium-term economic adjustment program by focussing on improvements in:
(i) external trade policies that would ensure an acceleration of export growth and



-6-
efficient import-substitution and further diversify production and exports;
(ii) public sector management and fiscal policies to reactivate the economy and
strengthen public savings in a timely way with emphasis on making better use of
existing infrastructure and productive capacity; (iii) financial policies to stim-
ulate domestic savings and to allocate credit more efficiently; and (iv) policy
incentives to expand oroductive employment. In addition to the proposed project,
we are also preparing a structural adjustment loan to support the Government's
medium-term economic program. These operations would contribute to improved effi-
ciency and enhanced savings, as well as stimulating much needed employment and
output in the private producing sectors.
20.       Over the next few years, it is expected that the Bank will continue sup-
porting the Government's medium-term economic adjustment program. Sectoral opera-
tions will be prepared in water and sewerage and in productive sectors such as
agriculture, energy and forestry. As part of the Bank's program of emergency as-
sistance, following the recent earthquake, a port reconstruction project might al-
so be prepared during 1985 and 1986. A proposed multimodal transport operation
would emphasize rationalizing competing modes of transport and prepare the country
better for the container age.  Lending for water and sewerage facilities would
meet important residential health needs and would also improve the export market-
ability of fresh agricultural produce. Lending for energy, agriculture and fores-
try would not only contribute to expanding output and employment, but would also
increase net foreign exchange earnings and savings.
21.       The responsible way in which the Authorities are handling the country's
external obligations augurs well for future operations in which the Bank could
co-lend with commercial banks. International commercial banks have agreed to
provide Chile with new funds to tide the country tbrough the next two years, and
are participating with the Bank in a US$300 million B-Loan attached to the Road
Sector Loan approved on June 20, 1985.  Opportunities for cofinancing with the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), are also being explored. IDB has a
sizeable program in Chile; it is focussing primarily on agriculture, industry,
power, and transportation -- sectors in which the Bank is also preparing
operations. IBRD exposure in Chile currently stands at 1.6 percent of public debt
and about 1.4 percent of total debt but will increase substantially in the next
two years.
PAWR III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND PINACIAL SECTORS
Industry in the Econosy
22.       Since 1973, the Government followed economic reforms which reduced the
Government's intervention in the economy allowing the market to allocate economic
resources. While these reforms involved almost all aspects of economic policy,
the change that more directly affected the industrial sector was the reduction of
import tariffs from a system with an average level of 97 percent in 1973, to a
uniform tariff system with a ten percent level in 1979. Import-substitution, the
main source of industrial growth in the previous decades, severely contracted as a
result.
23.       By the late 1970s, the industrial sector began to respond favourably to
the Government's macroeconomic policies. Resource-based, export-oriented indus-
tries, such as fishing, pulp and paper, lumber and fresh fruits, grew at a very
fast rate.  Most investment in that period took place in these industries.  The
growth of manufactured export products has also been significant, primarily in the



-7-
engineering industries and chemical products, which together accounted for about
15 percent of total manufactured and semi-manufactured products by the late
1970s.
24.       The fixing of the exchange rate in June i979, however, changed this
growth trend. The ensuing overvaluation of the peso made imports relatively
cheaper leading to a sharp rise in their consumption at the expense of domestic
production in 1980-81. Through 1980, the adverse effect of a fixed peso on ex-
port-oriented firms was partially offset by rising international prices. However,
as foreign markets began to weaken in 1981, many exporting subsectors had to re-
duce output. Meanwhile, the availability of cheap foreign credit had led to a
speculative boom. Industrial enterprises, and particularly large industrial con-
glomerates, borrowed heavily in dollars. When foreign lending contracted sharply
in 1982, the speculative boom came to an end, and overall domestic demand con-
tracted sharply. Virtually all industrial subsectors experienced reductions in
production, but the situation was particularly serious for the import-competing
non-durable consumer goods. As a result, many industrial firms became technically
bankrupt.
25.       Whereas overall and subsectoral growth has fluctuated substantially,
since 1973 a clear-cut trend of structural change has emerged within the indus-
trial sector. The more resource-based, export oriented industries have con-
sistently gained in importance during the last 15 years. They reached about
three-quarters of total industrial value-added in 1979, and increased that share
to over 82 percent ia 1983. At the same time, import-substitution industries,
which had captured nearly 40 percent of industrial output in the late 1960s suf-
fered a further decline from 24 percent of industrial output in 1969, to less than
16 percent in 1983. Employment in the industrial sector, which in the late 1960s
accounted for about 20 percent of total employment, fell from an absolute number
of over 500,000 in 1980, to 350,000 in 1982, and its relative share fell from 16
percent to 12.6 percent during the same period. The overall decline in industrial
employment, however, was not evenly distributed.   Large firms were the most af-
fected, and accounted for most of the 150,000 jobs lost in the sector. Medium-
sized firms increased employment slightly in absolute and relative terms.  The ef-
fect on small industry was negative: lost jobs were of the order of i,500, but
artisan industries were affected more severely. Since mid-1982, however, employ-
ment gains have been substantial, with total manufacturing employment returning to
a level of 440,000 in 1984.
Small- and Medium-Scale Tndustries (SMI)
26.       Overall, SMI had more difficulty adjusting to Government policy changes
than their larger-sized competitors, because: (i) Government technical assistance
was drastically cut; (ii) competition from abroad intensified; and (iii) credit
became extremely expensive. The share in industrial output of small-scale enter-
prises fell from 25 percent in the mid-1960s to 15 percent between 1979 and 1983.
By contrast, the output share of medium-scale enterprises remained constant, and
the output share pen worker of large-scale enterprises increased by 25 percent
during the same pe;.iod.
27.       While part of the decline in labor productivity of the small firms is
explained by the loss of markets domestically and abroad, several other factors
indicate weaknesses which must be addressed if this subsector is to play a role in
the future development of the country. Recent surveys show that about 65 percent
of the total fixed assets in enterprises employing between ten and 49 people are
over ten years old. About 80 percent of machinery in artisan industry is older



-8-
than ten years. Conversely, most large firms have renewed their capital stock,
and capacity utilization was of the order of 75 percent in 1979, and 85 percent in
1982. SMI, overall, utilized only about one-half of their capacity in recent
years, and artisan industries used even less. This situation has been aggravated
more recently by the earthquake that struck central Chile on March 3, 1985. This
region contains the largest concentration of Chilean industry. SERCOTEC (Servicio
de Cooperacion Tecnica) carried out a survey on the effects of the earthquake on
SKI, and estimates that some 4,000 to 4,500 firms were damaged. Total reconstruc-
tion costs have been estimated at about US$35 million equivalent.
28.       The obsolescence of SMI equipment and the low capacity utilization can
be explained in part by the limited access to long-term credit for investment and
working capital by small industry. The debt of SKI represent about four percent
of the total debt of the sector -- much less than their 14 percent share of indus-
trial value-added.
S   Policy
29.       SMI in the 1960s and early 1970s prospered in an environment of high
protection and ample credit at low interest rates. Census data from 1967 indicate
that profit rates in those firms were substantially above rates of return for
larger firms. However, studies on SMI carried out during the period suggest sub-
stantial constraints to further SMI growth due to: (i) an unskilled or semi-
skilled labor force; (ii) low level of capacity utilization; (iii) obsolescence of
installed machinery; (iv) low level of education of entrepreneurs (mcre than half
of the small scale industrialists had only completed primary education); and (v)
excessive concentration on small local markets.
30.       The reduced Government role in the economy, also led to a restriction of
its role in the development of industry in general, and a decrease in support to
SMI in particular. The activities of Servicio de Cooperacion Tecnica (SERCOTEC),
which in the past had played a substantial role in providing technical assistance,
training and credit to SNI, were reduced to a minimum.
31.       In the aftermath of Chile's most recent recession, when unemployment has
become one of the most pressing social and economic problems, the Government has
shown renewed interest in developing an efficient S3I subsector. In the context
of the Government's development program for 1984-86, which calls for the genera-
tion of employment and promotion of exports in the industrial sector, SMIs are now
viewed as an important instrument for the creation of employmeat opportunities.
Indeed, the investment cost per job in small and medium industries, can range from
about one third to about one tenth of the cost of generating a job in large enter-
prises. The Government also aims at strengthening the productive capacity and
competitiveness of SMI to enable them to supply larger industries and local mar-
kets, and to penetrate selected external markets.   To support these objectives,
the Government, through CORFO, and SERCOTEC, has established an integrated credit/
technical assistance program for the development of SMIs, which is geared to ad-
dress the problems constraining their growth. SERCOTEC, which in the past had
been severely weakened, is being given sufficient financial and huamn resources to
enable it to play a key role in the provision of technical assistance and training
to SKIs, and in particular, for its program to support artisan industrial enter-
prises (PAEM).
The Financial System and Institutional Setting
32.       The Chilean financial system comprises the Central Bank of Chile, which
-is the largest monetary authority in the country; 38 commercial banks, the largest



-9-
of which, Banco del Estado, is state-owned; seven savings and loan companies;
CORFO, the national development bank and state holding company; and SERCOTEC, a
wholly-owned CORFO subsidiary, which is responsible for providing credit and tech-
nical assistance to small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises. Commercial
banks are multi-banking institutions which operate both at the short- and long-
term ends of the market providing all types of credit and trading in mortgages and
commercial paper. Savings and loan companies are small institutions that are not
allowed to receive demand deposits and account for less than two percent of out-
standing credit owed to the system. The Central Bank shares with the
Superintendency of Banks the responsibility for supervising the financial system.
33.       The interest rates for 30-day deposits and credits are currently sug-
gested by the Central Bank, and are positive in real terms. Peso-denominated
instruments (deposits and credits) with maturities of over 90 days are adjusted in
accordance with the movements of the Consumer Price Index, which are reflected in
a monetary unit of adjustment (UP). Maturities of less than 90 days are expressed
in nominal peso terms at levels which are consistent with market rates.
34.       The speculative boom of 1980-82 greatly affected the financial sector,
which suffered losses equivalent to more than three times its equity capital, and
which forced the Superintendency of Banks to intervene in the day-to-day manage-
ment of eight banks in the country (three of them have since been liquidated).
The Government also undertook a recapitalization scheme of non-intervened banks,
designed to improve their liquidity position. The scheme bas not solved the non-
intervened banks' portfolio problems, and risk assets still represent 34 percent
of their equity capital. Nevertheless, these banks are operating profitably and
are building up reserves to cover potential losses. The financial situation of
the five intervened banks remains precarious. 'hese banks account for about 40
percent of outstanding debt owed to the system, and are carrying deferred losses
equal to about 90 percent of their equity. The Government has recently announced
a program to recapitalize these banks which was discussed with the tank in the
context of the Structural Adjustment Program.
35.       Although access by SKI to commercial credit in general has been limited,
some credit lines have been created more recently primarily for them. Banco de
Desarrollo operated such a line, but individual loans had to be guaranteed by a
fund established at Banco del Estado.  When the guarantee fund became fully com-
mitted in September 1984, this credit line also ceased. Banco del Estado also has
a credit line for industry which is available to SKI, but the interest rate of 9.5
percent per annum on UF is high, and these firms find it difficult to meet guaran-
tee requirements. Finally, SNI had access to a recent IDB credit line through
CORFO. This line has been fully committed. A repeater operation is planned for
1986, which, like its predecessor, will be a global line of credit available to
four sectors (industry, agriculture, mining and fishing).  Although the possibil-
ity for some overlap exists, this is not expected to be an obstacle to utilization
of the Bank's loan.
36.       CORFO was established in 1939 as an autonomous government corporation
responsible for promoting the development of productive activities in Chile,
through the establishment and management of its own enterprises, and the provision
of loans and guarantees to private sector corporations. CORFO also engages in re-
search and carries out basic studies necessary for the development of its pro-
gram. Its statutes enable it to borrow externally, and to relend these funds to
domestic private and public enterprises.



- 10 -
37.       CORFO has ten subsidiaries which carry out productive activities (sugar,
mining, steel, chemicals, and explosives) and provide services (telecommunication,
electric power, electronic data processing). Its research and development program
is carried out through four institutes which are CORFO subsidiaries, and which
cover activities in agriculture, forestry, industry, mining, fishing and energy.
As of December 31, 1984 CORFO had total assets of Ch$491.4 billion (US$4.0 bil-
lion), with a total capital and reserves of about Ch$439.7 billion (US$3.5 bil-
lion). Liabilities amount to Ch$51.7 billion (US$416.9 million).
38.       SERCOTEC, a CORFO subsidiary, was established in 1952 to assist small
and medium enterprises to become more efficient and productive through the pro-
vision of technical assistance at the enterprise level, traiaing of the labor
force, and credit. In the 1960s. the scope of its activities included direct
technical assistance to commercial enterprises, banks, transport companies and
public entities in general. Its credit program to artisan enterprises (PAEM) also
included help in the preparation of credit applications, evaluation of proposals,
assistance in carrying out feasibility studies, and the creation of a subcon-
tracting scheme.  In addition, it helped create some 40 SMI producer associations,
the National Confederation of Small and Medium Industrial Association (CONUPIA),
and took the initiative in helping SMI develop nontraditional exports. Beginning
in 1973, the reduced role of the Government in the economy led to a drastic de-
crease in SERCOTEC's activities.
39.         The Government's recent decision to help SMIs resulted in the re-
surgence of SERCOTEC, which is being given sufficient financial and human re-
sources to carry out its credit and technical assistance role. Between 1983
and 1984, sixteen regional offices were reopened, and seven PAEM agencies re-es-
tablished. As of June 30, 1985, SERCOTEC had some 339 staff members, including
some 190 professionals. A large number of the professional staff recently hired
are former SERCOTEC staff, which have a long experience in discharging SERCOTEC's
responsibilities. SERCOTEC also makes use of consultants, which account for about
five percent of staff time.
40.         SERCOTEC has a board of directors, whose president is the president of
CORFO's board of directors, or his designee, and five other directors designated
by CORFO, and one director representing INACAP (a CORPO subsidiary involved in
vocational training). SERCOTEC is currently organized in three departments. The
Department of Studies is in charge of carrying out sectoral and project-related
feasibility studies. The Administrative Department is in charge of the head of-
fice in Santiago, financial plaunning, budget preparation and computing activi-
ties. Finally, the Operations Department combines all of SERCOTEC's operations in
a single unit, under four separate divisions. The Technical Division handles
credit and technical assistance to SMI enterprises. The PAE? Division operates an
integrated program of assistance and credit to artisan enterprises. The Programs
Division is responsible for SERCOTEC's training activities, and specialized pro-
grams like export development. The Regional Coordination Division is responsible
for the activities of all regional offices, and for monitoring their performance.
41.         As of December 31, 1984, SERCOTEC had total assets of Ch$287.9 million
(US$2.9 million), total liabilities of Ch$4.1 billion (US$41 thousand), and a net
worth of Ch$283.8 million (US$2.8 million), representing revaluation of physical
and financial assets. About three fourths of SERCOTEC's operating costs are
covered by budget allocations made through CORFO. The remaining operating costs
are covered by service fees, and interest income from loans and securities. Dur-
ing the 1985-87 period, SERCOTEC is expected to grow, with total assets reaching
Ch$2.5 billion (about US$25 million) in 1987. Budgetary support from CORFO is ex-
pected to increase to cover about 90 percent of its operating costs during the



- 11 -
period. SERCOTEC is expected to submit its initial budget under the project to
CORFO no later than August 15, 1985, and to submit subsequent annual budgets prior
to August 15 thereafter.
Bank Strategy in the Sector
42.         The Bank has identified two major constraints to continued growth in
the industrial sector. One is the financial crisis of many large industrial en-
terprises, which is closely linked to the problems affecting the financial sec-
tor. The other is the low capacity utilization and obsolescence of many SKI, as
well as their need to apply more appropriate technologies, develop new markets,
and most recently to rebuild plant and equipment which were damaged in the recent
earthquake. The Government is proceeding with a strategy which aims first, at as-
sisting financially troubled, but efficient industrial corporations in their
financial restructuring; and second, at providing resources and technical assist-
ance to small and medium enterprises to enable these firms to create new employ-
ment opportunities, and increase output and productivity.
43.       Consistent with this strategy, the Bank is financing a pilot operation
designed to assist the Government in the establishment of the institutional frame-
work which will permit the financial restructuring of large industrial enter-
prises. This loan would provide credit to finance the normal operation and expan-
sion of some of the small-scale enterprises including credit and technical assist-
ance to small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises.
44.       Although the Bank made 14 loans to CORFO between 1948-74, none were to
support industrial development. These were concentrated in agricultural and live-
stock development, and expansion of hydroelectric generation and distribution
facilities. Two of these loans were to support the strengthening of INACAP, a
CORFO subsidiary in charge of vocational training. The proposed project would be
the first IDF project to support the development of SMI in CHILE, and would assist
the Government in carrying out its integrated credit/technical assistance pro-
gram. In addition, the proposed project is specifically designed to promote
financial intermediation to SMI, which, in the past had difficulty in gaining ac-
cess to commercial credit.
PART IV - TH PROJECT
General
45.       The proposed project was prepared by SERCOTEC, assisted by staff mis-
sions that visited Chile between September and November, 1984. Appraisal work was
substantially carried out in November, 1984, but was not considered completed un-
til January 1985, after the visit to Washington of a SERCOTEC mission. Negotia-
tions took place in Washington from July 1 to July 8, 1985. The Chilean Delega-
tion was neaded by Mr. Joaquin Prieto, Director of Financial Operations of CORFO.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Chile - Small and Medium Industry Project",
(No. 5579-CH) dated July 16, 1985 has been distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The proposed project would support the development of SMI in Chile, and
-would assist the Government in carrying out its integrated credit and technical



- 12 _
assistance program. The project's main objectives would be to promote increased
employment, output, equity investment, and productivity in the SMI subsector by
providing SMI with an integrated support package, including access to credit
facilities on appropriate terms and conditions, technical assistance linked to the
institutional needs of beneficiaries under the credit program, training and sup-
porting services.  The project would also strengthen management and technical
skills of CORFO and SERCOTEC, to assist them in carrying out their responsibil-
ities for the proposed project. In addition, the project is specifically designed
to increase the participation of commercial banks in financing SMIs.
Credit CoaPonent
47.       The credit component would include a total of US$36 million from the
proposed loan. Most of the funds would be evenly allocated between eligible
medium and small industries, and would include the following sub-components: (i)
US$20 million equivalent would be allocated to finance investments in fixed assets
and associated permanent working capital. Proposed financing would include sub-
projects to modernize and expand existing enterprises, to establish new ones, or
to reconstruct those damaged by the recent earthquake. Items to be financed under
this sub-component would include machinery, equipment, and their installation
costs, repair parts, industrial buildings and infrastructure. Subloans of up to
US$100,000 equivalent could finance the purchase of independently certified used
or reconditioned equipment; (ii) US$10 million would be allocated to finance free
standing permanent working capital, for enterprises needing to improve the utili-
zation of installed productive capacity; (iii) US$4 million equivalent would be
allocated to artisan enterprises receiving credit and technical assistance under
the PAEN program to finance fixed assets, including certified used or recondi-
tioned equipment, and associated permanent working capital; (iv) US$1.6 million
equivalent would be allocated to finance expenses associated with the nromotion of
nontraditional manufactured exports, including product design and development,
quality control and testing, production of samples, and other marketing expendi-
tures; and (v) US$0.4 million equivalent would be allocated to finance the costs
of technology development, including product design, testing, and development; as
well as the costs of the initial production run (Categories I (a), (b); 2 (a),
(b); 3-4 (b), (c); and 5 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Guarantee Fund
48.       A Guarantee Fund to be used in connection with subloans under the pro-
ject is considered essential to promote the involvement of commercial banks in the
project increasing the availability of financing for SMIs. A Guarantee Fund
funded in its entirety by the Government and managed by Banco del Estado has been
available in the past to all productive sectors. However, the Fund's capability
of reaching SMls was severely limited by its exposure-to-capital ratio of 1:1,
and by its guarantee limit of UF 1,500 (US$22,500 equivalent) for enterprises with
total assets of UF 5,000 (US$75,000 equivalent) or less. The Guarantee Fund would
be restructured under the proposed project to provide access to SMIs. The Fund's
exposure-to-capital ratio will be defined by the Fund's guidelines established by
the Central Bank of Chile after consultation with CORFO and the Bank (Section 6.01
(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Access to the expanded portion of the Fund
would be limited to financial intermediaries participating under the proposed pro-
ject and other multilateral credits (i.e., IDB). Guarantees could be granted to
enterprises with total assets up to UF 15,000 (US$225,000 equivalent) for a maxi-
mum subloan amount of UF 5,000 (US$75,000 equivalent) or 50 percent of the subloan
amount, whichever is lower. The maximum guaranteed coverage could go up to 80
percent of the subloan amount, this rate to be used only in respect of subloans of
UP 1,500 (US$22,500 equivalent) or less.



-13 -
49.          The increased risk which the Fund would incur after its restructuring
would be largely compensated by the detailed project evaluation and inteasive
supervision required of financial intermediaries having access to the Fund. An
analysis of the proposed restructuring made by the Bank showed that the proposed
guarantee to reserve ratio is not excessive. The availability of capital of the
Guarantee Fund, and the adequacy of the guarantee to reserve ratio would be re-
viewed by the Government, Banco del Estado and the Bank, as necessary (Section
3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). A condition of effectiveness would be
that the Fund is fully operational (Section 6.02 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Risk Capital Fund Component
50.          A Risk Capital Fund would be established by CORFO under the project
for making equity investments in SMI. The Committee administering the Fund would
also have the authority to make loans to small industry investment companies or
enterprises but these loans would not be financed by proceeds of the proposed
loan. The creation of this Fund would represent an important initiative for help-
ing SMI enterprises to mobilize the equity they require to carry out new ventures,
and to increase production. Its total paid-in capital would be US$4 million.
CORFO would provide US$2 million and, out of the proceeds of the Bank loan to
CORFO, US$2 million would be utilized to complement the Fund. The Fund's total
investment would be limited to 40 percent of the paid-in capital of eligible
enterprises. The maximum investment financing with Bank funds would be the lower
of US$100,000 equivalent or 20 percent of the total paid-in capital. To expedite
disbursements under the Fund a special account would be established at the Central
Bank of Chile (CB), to be utilized by CORFO to pay for the investments it makes
under the Risk Capital Fund, with an initial deposit of US$200,000 from Bank loan
funds. Payments by CORFO to the Risk Capital Fund would be made pari-passu with
payments to be made by the Bank. The Fund would be replenished on the basis of
disbursements made by CORFO from the special account, after the Bank has had the
opportunity to review investment eligibility and the fixed assets proposed to be
financed by the Bank under the investment in question (Sections 2 and 3 of
Schedule 6 to the draft Loan Agreement).
51.         The Fund's operational statutes have been discussed with the Bank and
will soon be approved by CORFO's Board of Directors. Shares held by CORFO under
the Fund will be sold back to the private sector. Prior to disbursement of the
Bank's portion of the Fund, operational rules and regulations, including the
specific measures which CORFO will undertake to divest itself of its share parti-
cipation in the Fund, will have to be defined in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank. CORFO's capital subscription of US$2 million equivalent and a minimum
pay-in contribution to the Fund of US$200,000 equivalent will also have to be made
prior to disbursement of the Bank's portion of the Fund (Paragraph 3 (g) of Sched-
ule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance and Training Component
52.          A major objective of the project is the technical upgrading of the
participating institutions. To that effect, US$2 million of the loan would be
used for the following activities: (i) USS0.8 equivalent for SERCOTEC for assist-
ance to improve its planning and programming activities, to establish procedures
for the monitoring and follow-up of subprojects, to evaluate the effectiveness of
the PAEM program and of the Guarantee Fund managed by Banco del Estado, and to
develop export promotion subprojects, and implement technology improvements of
eligible enterprises; (ii) US$0.6 million equivalent for training of staff of
beneficiaries in key management and technical areas; (iii) US$0.2 million equiva-
lent for training selected staff of financial intermediaries and of SERCOTEC



- 14 -
through seminars dealing with project identification, preparation, evaluation,
monitoring and supervision; (iv) US$0.3 million equivalent to finance technical
assistance to CORPO for the initiating operation of the risk capital fund; and (v)
US$0.1 million equivalent to finance the establishment of policies and procedures
within the SMI Advisory Unit of the Ministry of Economy for monitoring the overall
impact of the program. SERCOTEC would be responsible for implementing this com-
ponent of the project (Section 2.01 (a) of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       Calculations based on conservative assumptions with respect to both
capacity expansion and replacement of existing capital stock suggest that total
investment demand by SMI would be of US$145 million over a three year period. The
foreign exchange content is expected to be of the order of US$75 million, equiva-
lent to about 50 percent of investment demand. Assuming that about 20 percent of
estimated demand would be financed by suppliers credits, demand for machinery and
equipment financing and for permanent working capital could be expected to reach
US$20 million per year.
54.       Based on a commitment period of three years and taking into account the
limits imposed on SERCOTEC's absorptive capacity by the rapid growth of its activ-
ities, a loan of US$40 million is proposed, equivalent to the foreign exchange
cost of the project. The loan would have a maturity of 15 years, including three
years of grace. The Bank would be ready to finance up to 100 percent of all sub-
loans but in no case would Bank financing exceed 60 percent of the total project
cost of any subproject financed under the loan, except for subloans under the Risk
Capital Fund, which would not exceed 20 percent of the total share capital. Based
on a total project cost estimated at US$75 million equivalent and Bank financing
of US$40 million, the Bank would finance 53.3 percent of the project's total cost,
including about 53 percent of the credit component, and 57 percent of the techni-
cal assistance component. Retroactive financing of up to US$4 million, ten per-
cent of the proposed loan, would be provided to cover expenditures eligible for
financing under the loan required by participating intermediaries of CORFO prior
to loan signing but after August 1, 1985 (Paragraph 3 (b), Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
Special Accounts
55.       Two separate special accounts would be established at the Central Bank
of Chile (CB) for utilization by CORFO under the loan. A special account to be
utilized for all project components, with the exception of the Risk Capital Fund,
would have an initial deposit of US$3.8 million, equivalent to four months of es-
timated disbursements of Bank funds. Withdrawal applications submitted to the
Central Bank would be accompanied by full documentation, except for subloans of
less than US$100,000 equivalent, which would be supported by statements of expend-
iture. Replenishment of the special account would be made by the Bank against
actual disbursements for subloan expenditures. A second special account, for
transactions under the Risk Capital Fund, would be established with an initial de-
posit of US$0.2 million equivalent (Section 2.02 (d) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
Project Execution
56.        For the proposed project, Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
(CORFO) would be the borrower, and the Republic of Chile would be the Guarantor.
Although CORFO would be responsible for the execution of most of the project,
SERCOTEC would be responsible for the technical assistance component and would al-
so actively participate in the overall execution of the project. It would active-
ly evaluate all subloan requests and perform all subproject appraisals. Moreover,
only subloazs which have received the technical approval of SERCOTEC would be con-
sidered by CORFO's Credit Committee for final approval (Sections 1.02 (a), tb) and
(m) of the draft Loan Agreement). SERCOTEC would also be responsible for overall
supervision of the subprojects. CORPO is expected to directly onlend part of the
loan proceeds to SMI, and to participate in equity investments under the Risk
Capital Fund. The remaining loan proceeds would be onlent to eligible commercial
banks under Subsidiary Loan Agreements acceptable to the Bank, signed by each par-
ticipating commercial bank, CORFO and SERCOTEC. Only commercial banks which are
not intervened by the Superintendency of Banks would be eligible to participate in
the project (Section 1.02 (q) of the draft Loan Agreement).
57.       The policies and procedures that would govern CORFO and SERCOTEC finan-
cing operations under the proposed loan and the role of SERCOTEC under the pro-
posed project are set forth in a Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures.
Guidelines for subproject appraisal and supervision would be established in a
Credit Manual, to be used by CORPO, SERCOTEC and other participating financial in-
termediaries. The content of SERCOTEC's Statement of Operating Policies and Pro-
cedures, and its Credit Manual have been agreed during negotiations of the pro-
posed project, and their approval by CORFO and SERCOTEC's Board would be a condi-
tion of Loan Effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Finan-
cial intermediaries would assume primary responsibility for the appraisal and
supervision of their subprojects, and would bear the credit risk. SERCOTEC's
supervision would be designed to support and monitor their efforts, in order to
ensure the quality of appraisals and effectiveness of supervision by commercial
banks (Sections 2.02 and 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). SERCOTEC would al-
so be responsible for administering the technical assistance included in the pro-
ject for managerial improvement of beneficiaries, and for the technical assistance
to CORFO, the Ministry of Economy, and commercial banks (Section 2.01 (a) of the
draft Project Agreement).
58.       CORFO would be responsible for the disbursement of all subloans, in-
cluding those by financial intermediaries, and for the purchase of equity shares
under the Risk Capital Fund. CORFO would undertake to provide SERCOTEC with the
required budget to perforr. these duties in a m-nner satisfactory to the Bank.
CORFO's contributions to SERCOTEC's annual budget would be presented to the Bank
on or before August 15 of each year during the life of the project.  CORFO would
provide assurances to the Bank that proceeds derived from the recovery of subloans
would be relent for purposes consistent with those of the proposed project
(Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Rebinding !sema ind Conditions
59.       An overall limit on firms' eligibility would be established at a value
of US$750,000 for fixed assets both owned and leased, calculated on the basis of
financial statements for the fiscal year immediately preceeding the date on which
such enterprise filed a request for a  subloan or an investment, or in the absence
of financial statements, as determined by SERCOTEC.  A maximum aggregate amount of
US$500,000 for Bank financing in respect of each subloan made by CORFO or a par-
ticipating commercial bank to any single or related group of enterprises would be



- 16 -
established for financing investment in fixed assets, while a limit of US$200,000
would be established for financing free-standing working capital.  The limit on
financing for equity investment would be of US$100,000. Subloan limits and ap-
praisal requirements applicable to subloans within these limits, would serve to
distinguish between artisan, small and medium-sized enterprises. Subloans under a
limit of US$16,000 would be directed exclusively to artisan enterprises under the
PARK program.  CORPO would delegate to SERCOTEC full responsibil4ty for appraisal,
approval and supervision of these subprojects, according to criteria established
for PAEM. For subloans up to US$100,000, directed towards small-scale enter-
prises, a technical-financial evaluation would be requirei using a modified format
focussing on key analytical variables. For subloans between US$100,000 and
US$500,000, directed to SMI, a full appraisal would be required of the subpro-
ject's technical, financial, market and economic aspects. Subprojects dealing
with equity investment and promotion of nontraditional manufactured exports would
require a full appraisal regardless of the subloan amount. Subprojects requiring
Bank financing of US$50,000 and above would require a financial rate of return
calculation, while those receiving Bank financing of US$250,000 and above, would
need to be submitted to the Bank for approval and would require an economic rate
of return computation. Because the equity financing component is a pilot program
which will have to be closely monitored, the first four subprojects involving
equity inv6stments would need to be submitted to the Bank for approval, as well as
any additional subprojects requiring Bank financing of over US$50,000 (Section
2.02 and Schedules 1 and 5 to the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       CORFO would bear the foreign exchange risk on the loan.  It would onlend
proposed loan funds to participating commercial banks at an annual interest rate
of four percent on UF to small-scale enterprises (subloans under US$100.000), and
at five percent on UF to medium-scale enterprises (subloans over US$100,000). The
annual interest rate to project beaeficiaries would be eight percent on UP. A one
percent front-end fee would be charged on all credit operations by the financial
institutions involved. The adequacy of the rates to banks and to project benefi-
ciaries would be reviewed by CORFO, SERCOTEC and the Bank every six months, and
would be changed as necessary to ensure that interest rates remain positive in
real terms and consistent with market conditions, and that intermediation fees re-
main sufficiently attractive to ensure commercial bank financing of SMIs (Section
3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disburseiant
61.       The proceeds of the loan would finance the estimated foreign exchange
costs of imported machinery and equipment, materials, civil works and services.
Procurement of fixed assets under subloans would be carried out on the basis of
comparative shopping (except for subloans under US$16,000) including at least
three price quotations. In cases where it may be difficult to obtain three quota-
tions because of the smallness of the package, this requirement would be waived
after adequate justification is presented. Subloans for small-scale enterprises
could finance used or reconditioned equipment procured locally, whose condition,
value and useful life has been certified by an independent and fully qualified ex-
pert. Consulting services for the technical assistance component would be se-
lected in accordance with Bank guidelines.  All subproject appraisals would in-
clude a discussion of procurement procedures utilized, the response received, the
prices quoted, and the criteria for selection of suppliers. It is not expected
that any single contract would exceed US$250,000.
62.         The pioceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1991.  The final date for submission of subproject. proposals would be
December 31, 1988. These estimates are consistent with regional and Bank-wide



- 17 -
disbursement profiles for IDF lending. Disbursement of loan funds for investment
subprojects would be made for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to the
receipt of the Bank of the investment subloan requast.  To ensure the timely dis-
bursement of loan proceeds, the special accounts mentioned in para. 55 would be
established. The special accounts would be replenished by the reimbursement of
project expenditures. The special account for the Risk Capital componpnt would be
used exclusively for the reimbursement of expenditures under this component.
CORFO would submit to the Bank fully documented reimbursement requests upon
SERCOTEC's recommendation. CORFO would submit to the Bars  a monthly statement of
the special accounts which would reflect transactions during the previous month.
Accounting and Auditing
63.         The Central Bank would maintain the special account for the project,
and the special account for the Risk Capital Fund in accordance with accounting
principles consistently applied and in a form satisfactory to the Bank. Annual
audits of CORFO and SERCOTEC would be carried out by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank. The audited statements of CORFO and SERCOTEC would include
balance sheets, statements of income and expenses, and statements of sources and
application of funds, as well as an opinion on the quality of CORFO and SERCOTEC
auditing standards and procedures. Supplementary data on project objectives, op-
erations, quality of portfolio, the scope and quality of work carried out by
SERCOTEC and the financial intermediaries, would also be provided.  The annual
audit report in a scope and Ic.rmat satisfactory to the Bank, would be submitted to
the Bank not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year. In addi-
tion, SERCOTEC would send the Bank periodic reports on the project's financial
situation and operations (Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement and
4.01 of the draft Project Agreement). The Guarantee Fund would also be audited
(Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
64.         The proposed project would represent a significant step in helping the
Chilean Government to address the problems faced by SMI. it would provide invest-
ment financing for many firms which have never had access to the banking system.
It would enable some firms to modernize their plant facilities and become more ef-
ficient producers, and would assist other firms to expand production. It would
enable enterprises that have been damaged in the recent earthquake to rebuild
their production facilities. It would also help potential exporters to find
foreign markets and to develop products which could meet the standards of foreign
consumers. It would assist other firms to incorporate the benefits of advanced
technology into their production facilities. Successful implementation of these
actions should result in a significant expansion of industrial employment.
65.       The proposed project would also have an important impact on institution-
building, by contributing to the institutional development of the financial system
by widening financial intermediation to SMIs, and by substantially strengthening
the capability of SERCOTEC, to: (i) plan and program its activities; (ii) estab-
lish procedures for monitoring and follow-up of the subprojects it would finance;
(iii) evaluate the results of the different programs it is carrying out; (iv) es-
tablish and put into operation a risk capital fund; and (v) to develop the capa-
bility to help clients who wish to find export markets or implement technology im-
provements in their enterprises.



- 18 -
66.       The proposed project does not involve any unusual risks.  The executing
agency is experienced and has a staff that is capable of carrying out the pro-
ject. One potential risk is that any downturn in the economy could have a signi-
ficant effect on investor attitudes, especially smaller entrepreneurs. In addi-
tion, the degree to which commercial banks would participate under the project is
also somewhat in doubt, given the innovative aspect of SMI lending for the banking
system as a whole. As a substantial part of the loan is expected to be processed
by SERCOTEC and CORFO, a failure of commercial banks to participate to the degree
anticipated, should not seriously affect utilization of the loan.
PAT V - LTIL  SS             AND AUTIOf!
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Corporacion de Fomento de
la Produccion, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the
Bank, and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Servicio de Cooperacion
Tecnica,and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The loan is subject to the following special conditions of
effectiveness: (i) that a Guarantee Fund, whose structure, coverage and procedures
are satisfactory to the Bank is fully operational; and (ii) that CORFO and
SERCOTEC have adopted a statement of policies and procedures, and a credit manual
satisfactory to the RBnk, in respect of the proposed project. The other
conditions of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in the text of this report
and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI -  ECOUXUDATIOZS
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 31, 1985



t  19
-        ~~~TABLE 54                                         ANNE".I
-101KM. IN ICt UDATQ                    '       Page  1  of  7
-~~~~~21                              -l               RNUU            C1II  £UR7 
*                          (US! 6802K! UUTUImanaAIR rom     L
''- ~~~~~~19a                                       1970  usuzL.               ~ci
mu -. smU sQ.  o
Tll.                              757.0      737.0      737.0                .
- _              lem.IILKNAlL                     1^34.       154.9      174.5
w "  C         CU)                     ..         ..       1070.0           1175.9                   2144.3
*            v aoinuoumm  cwum
(fiLoRuw 0 OUL RQIALYI          570.0       679.0      754.0              MA                     1119.
-OMAW  AM YTrL RTMmm
POPULATION.ND-TRAa (71003M)   7565.0        9368.0    1162.0
URLU  IUPULaTiS CZOr TT)          67.1        75.2       82.4              6 7.7                     7
POPULAToI .A.5010
PO-MA?TWI IN MM 2000 CtL                               15.0
ATA2I0hI  POPMAT      t CHL                            21.0
FOFU?ATIO  IHhhM                                        1.6
:   POPTIO 
-II SQ. KR.                      10.0       12.A        15.4             48.0                     34.7
PE  SQ. XU. AIX. LAND            5.4        39.0       85.S              91.1                    18.9
PO'MAIIOI ACE STNUUZ (Z)
0-14 71s                        39.1       38.0        31.3             36.5                     31.2
1534 iS                          56.3       57.1       63.0              37.1                     61.3
5 ANID AN=                        4.3        4.7        5J                4.2                      7.2
P0102.a7al6 GR013 lAIR (Z)
TwL                               2.2        2.1         1.               2.4                      14
DINAH                             3.7        3.1        2.4               3.6                      3.7
IUZ KIM RBAT Ct  TO115)           34.4        268.       24.0              30.9                     23A
cU   lAI  RATE Cm t     DWs)      12.          8.9        8.0               J.0                      *.9
CRU  REPRODUCTION RATE              Z.3        1.         1.3               2.0                      1.5
FAMLY. PLANKNIH
ACCDIU. AML (TIWs)                ..       216.7       265.A  c
aSEtS CZ OF MARKE LU )            ..         ..         43. 7            4U.3
IO! or mmO 1M00. r6 CAPITA
(1989-71-1001                     94.0       104.0       89.0             10.4                     109.1
P- CAlMIP smrr  oF
CIOSIE  (Z or RZQ_JZURU)        106.0      110.0       109.0            113.2                    131.5
£IV3US (G*1 PER AT               70.0       71.0       13.0               "A                      92.4
OF MUCK ANIIAL AIS 0L2.C        26.0       30.0       27.0 Ic           342                      34.5
e1u1  (AcEs 1-4) DU3S Rat          17.3       1O.7        2.0               4.8                      4.7
LX_ EtnCI AT BIRTH lAS)           54.9        62.3       70.0              84.8          *7.2
IFAMr MM. RAU (m 10WS)            114.0       62.5       40.0              39.7                     33.3
ASE TO 70SAM WA    (lieu)
TOTAL                            82.0       5A.0       64.0              EL 6.                    70.2
OZUJB                            76.9       67.0       100.0 7           76.3                     69.
RUAL                             11.4       13.0       17.07W            44.2 J7.0
ACCESS TO ERNTA DISPOSAL
(Z OFr POIULATIM
TOTL                              ..        29.0         0.0 4           56.3                     39.
03581                             ..        33.0       99. 7             73.                        .9
- _            _  RUAL                              ..        10.0         ..               25.3                    47.
1010113    PER PUTSXCUII         1760.0     2130.0 /f  19300             1909.7                   1070.6
pOr. PM 63510 P1RO                840.0      610.0      450.0             U 06.2                   78.5
Pop. PER WriA -
7uTOTA                                           280.0       260.0      210.0             362.0                   32J.3
UJRAN                           270.0      230.0      320.0 7;          422.0                    201.9
RURAL                             ..      1610.0      770.0 7T         2716.7                   4519.7
AM-SS2N  PER    1IL En              ..         ..        26.0 A            Z7.3                     20.0
AIE2C  SXZt oF =SX00
TOTAL                            s.A         3.1
US                               5.2         5.0
RURAL                            8.0         5.5
AVZRAMC 0o  ow PsoS/0K
rOTAL                             1.7        1.4
UR-                               1.6        1.3
RURAL                            2.0         1.7
'~~~~1E~z  0' 8CC0  W WTS CL.0.
ToTAL                            70.A        ..         ..
-U,-=AU                           lJ6.3      ..
RURAL                           23.9         ..



,,~~ ~~ -                  .
-20-                                                   ANNME I
T A A L * 3A                                 Page  2  of  7
01111*                 - SOCIAL inDiORS DATA SN
OICL2                                IIVRENCE ClrOUPS CIIEWRT   AWRS) &
MHST                     (OT RECENT  STI mAE
IUCIUIS          RIDDLEU INCOME          IIIDDL
ipsoLb!    i9CiaL  EST IrMAT        LAT. AMERCA4 CM               EUROP
UDUUSTED EllROUIII RATIOS
PRINARTi  TOTAL                  109.0       101.0       112.0              106.7                    101.9
ILA                    111.0      107.0       113.0              108.5                     106.2
FEKALI                 107.0      108.0       110.0              104.6                     97.5                        -
mUONWAIT: TOTAL                   26.0        39.0        59.0               44.2                     57.5
HALZ                   26.0        34.0        56.0               42.7                      64.9
P3L01                  26.0        42.0        62.0               44.9                      50.0
VOCATIONAL tX o0 SCODARY)           26.2        33.0        26.0               13.3                     21.0
PUPL-TEArUI  RATIO
PRIUARY                            *          50.0        33.0               29.9                     25.1
sRCONDhI0Y                        16.0        13.0        20.0 /a            16.7                     19.1
PASSINGE CARBIT0UZD  POP             7.6        186.        60.2 Id            46.0                     54.2
RADIO UECEIVZURS/OOIAND POP        130.8       149.4       300.3              328.3                    170.7
TV RICRIVUWTUOUIAD POP               0.1        53.4       113.2              112.4                    149.3
NEIPAPRi ("ALY CGNEAL
INTElEST") CXLUMATIOI
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           131.6        84.1        B6.6               81.1                     97.0
CLNxIA AISIDAL ATOiMANCZ/CAPITA      7.1         4.7         1.3                2.4                       2.7
LARENK  C
TOTAL LABOR FORCE CTmoS)          2505.0      2885.0      3734.0
FINALE (PERCENT)                  21.7        22.0        26.6               23.6                     36.3
AGRCULTURE (PERCENT)              30.5        22.6        19.2 Id            31.4                     40.8
NDUSRY (PERCET)                   20.0        21.0        19.4 7;i           24.3                     23.3
PARTCIPATO  RT (PEZRCNT)
TOTAL                             33.0        30.8        32.4               33.5                     43.1
MALE                              52.1        48.4        67.B               51.3                     55.1
FEALUZ                            14.2        13.5        16.8               15.9                     31.4
ECONOIfC DEENDEECT R4A10             1.3         1.4         1.2                1.3                      0.9
I7ON D         Uszw
PECZENT OF PRIVATE INCOE
HIGREST 50 OFlltDS                 ..          .......
RICHIEST 2Z Or IIOSEIOIDS          ..         51.4 I       ..
LOUEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          4.4 4.
LOIEST 4A0 OF HOUSE3OLS            ..         13.4          .
MM     ACT   CMIWS
ESTIMATED ABSOLWg POVERTY OICO1M
LEV   COSS P11 CAPITA)
URlJN                              ..          ..        360.0 /a           288.3
RDRAL                              ..          ..          ..               185.3
ESTZKA   RELATI  POVER INMOE
LEL (USS PER CAPITA
lIRlMI                             ..          ..        640.0 /I           519.8
mURAL                              ..          ..          ..               359.7
ESTIMAXED POP. BELOW AISOXOTE
POVERTY INCOME LEME CZ)
RURAL                              ..          ..
..NO? AVAIAL
NOT APPLICASLE
la  The group average for each indicator are population-ifhghted arit tctie _mans. Coverag  of countries
a     the indicator, depends on availabiity of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otbervAe noted. "Data for 1960" refer to an  yar betme   1959 and 1961:; "Data for 1970" batmea
1969 and 1971; and data for "most Pxzat Sati_ate" be_te   1981 and 1983.
/c   1977; /d 1980; /a 1979; /f Personnel in govarmt services only; Ls 1968.
JME. 1985



-21-                                                     ANNM I
Page 3 of 7
DUOUTOtG OF SOCL NOWATO1
Nowr Althou th data awe drwn tirm soures georaly jadp  lb iram audthorw nd elblM. it should Mo be noe tat thmy ay na be ut ianaloloy
compabk bmuse o t lak of mandahed  d_iida  ad ga mpa t  by dif_ecmmmin colia tle dUa  Mh da ame noatu   meul to
daibe odez or magmiud imutt tres ad damacterha cm  major diffemin e   ounmim
thbe detaie poupsa n(I) the mnecountry group oltuhiejmc contry and(2). country gropwith amwhal higheravera  inamethenthe country
group of she subiect corutty (Ycpt for 'High Iontome C Exspanm  g- 4 wbeeidle Incme Norb Afirca and Middle Eas isehoam becot onfser
saiocultrural aititaa). In the refeecaLe gmW  da the awwag ame populat  weghtod aritec m_m br r   ineicate, ad_nhowa only when mjoity
odti. comi.sinagoup bdatsatrlt icator. Snthe coe of cmui mongd h ina     gdeenantbhe avabliyofdo Asand i mat sniform.
canton mnut beeemind in relating avtage of oe indicar to anoher. The avempu ate only urnehl icamparins te value of oe indiawarata time anwng
the country and rekno    op
AREA (thousnd sq.km-)                                         Cmud. Bke Rare (per thad)-Numberof live birtbs in the year
Tred-Total surface am comprisng land area and inland waserS;  per thousad of mid-year populatio  1960. 1970. and 1983 data,
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     Cnde Peakh Roe (pr t.manEd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agai*urwI-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 193 dat.
permanently for crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gra Rrp.dwin Rate-Aerage number of daughiers a woman
lie fallow. 1960.1970 and 1982 data                           will bear in ber nornal reproductve peiod if she experiences
pret age-specdc fetity rates uxually five-year avags ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimats at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. cakulated by same conversion method as Worfd   F        P'aai-Aeliws Amas (rA..saads)-Annual num-
Bw*ulc Ado.r O 981-83 basis). 1933 data,                      ber oracceptors of birth-control dces under auspics or national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Aual appa nt                         Y pnning pram
consumption of commcmial primary energy (coal and naily Plmnig-U- (percen of arrike w                      )--Tbe prcen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuckar and geothermal elec-  tage of maried women of child-bearing age who are pracicng or
ticity) in kilogrms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are pracidng any form ofcontraception. vromen
1982 data.                                                    of cbild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. althougth for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                               groups.
ToradPepetau. Mid- Yaw (ehosium)-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NULRitON
and 1983 data.
Urbm PJpofimrion fporcet ojr total)-Ratio of urban to total   h-drx.fFoodPraducim Per CApi  (969-71 - 100)-Index of per
capita annual production of al food commodites. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affec comt2r-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countres; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dam      indude primary commodities (e.g. sugrcane instead of supar)
_,POp ,it  Pojectious                                         which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea arc
Popuation o year 2000-The projection of population ror 2000.  excluded)  they comprise cerals, root crops. pulses. oil aecds.
made for each economy separately. Startng with information on  vegetabkls  rtuits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fettimty rates. tortality rates nd  livestock products. Aggegate production of each country is based
international migration in thc base year 1980. these parameters  on national avcrage producer price weights 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five.year intervals on the basis of gcneralized  1982 data-
asumptions tuntil the population bcame stationary.            Pa Ct &SWp jofCalorief (Pfufratrmesna$-Comput-
Stowoary p,plaison-Is one in which age- and-sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
taliy rates havc not changed ovcr a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement kvel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in diributiom Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charateristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2090. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement lcvd.                                     waste at household leve: 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
Popu&tion Momenzwwr-ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capa Sply of AWair (grsm p- dqJ-Proteio content of
conttnue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has becn  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved that is. even after the net reproduction rate has rched  as above. Requirments for al countries establshed by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minnium allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grms of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year r. gien the asmption that fertility remains at repla-  should be annial protein. These standards are lower than those of
met level from yer r onward. 1985 data-                       75 grns of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
&PulMbati    D-Zt*                                            average for the worl proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqJbn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) o' total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capiar Awh    Sup   JiFrom Amiand a*s-Protein supply
Per sqialL qgrkclrun  kaa-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pules in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Popuotiau Age Struns:e (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-  CMA (ai- 14) Death Rate (per thnsa -NIumber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 yearsm, and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children ased 1.4 ycars per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population 1969. 1970. and 1983 daa               group in a given year. For most devdoping countris data derived
from life tables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Plp_  Ga CwwzRt (prceer)-alnnual grwh rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
fbpal. Growth Rte (perceAt)-am-Annual growth rates             ife Erpecwy at Birth (yers)-Nunber of years a newborn
of urban population for 195D-6  1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortality for all people



-22-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at db tm  of of la birth wire to stay th am  thougot it lf     apd-inchrr Xedl - pr .wT, and  uloar-Total sudnts an-
1960. 1970 and 1983 daa.                                      roled In lopuy and secondary 1al dvIded by mumber of
W MWtmfte (p.. immd)--Number of inuts wbo  se mb                            th cmrpondi  be.
before mechIng one year of ape per thousand Ki birtda In a given
yera 1960. 1970  d 193M daaL                                   CO     W ON
A*tmto bS:      U- (pmw  of psp :INA whm  md                     amqn Cm (PM rmad p               . --mm cars corn-
, d-Nuwor people (total, urban. an rul wit rambl                -  motor cts  ain kms than ig ht prsons; ecdes mbal-
*aces to asbh wai  upply Gasud   mated surfi  wates or         ances bears. and military vehd.
tmbteatd but minscuntmlnatsd watin such - that tro  preoected                ft.thmplai).ADypsorceer
b*rehols. sprig. andsanitar well. uperastagea f thur apic-     ror adio broadcs to genera pub  per thousand of popotn
dp             In n urban are a publc fountain or stanpmioa       u    un4keused rcvs  n counes ao in yea  whe
locaed out moe than 200 metA,as boma hn may be c       d       rg     on of radio an wa in eFct dat for        years may
as being within rasoabe acor, of tat ho    b_nua arm ea               o        a      ost cu        bo d -
reaonasle access woud bmpy dta dh houwife or members of the
housod do sot bhe to sped a dspropordtone per of the day      TV(pW chidpEp.Iat                -TV'eaevera forbroadcast
in fetchIng the family's wat ned                              to gauF public per thoxsnd popuon exclde uniaid TV
Ai           ~      ~        -      e      ~         ~        raeir in countrie an in yeans when registration ofrTV am w
M 6   N    ..-Number of puopl     b totL urban nd rural)  tby
e  disposal   percntages of thi rlpeveci    populations.   Awspqep    G        (jm. raxoneferpa.)-ibowa th av-
Excre  dipoml may Incld  the colecdon  d ds        ith or     lkag circulation of -daft gene  ines neuupapu' dd  u as a
without em_en  of human exre  ad waste-water                  paio publicationdevotedimarily to eorgdIng  era  new
bore aystm  or the uew of pit privies and simila n   s          is oodSred to be daily" if it appen at lt four ti    a wee.
A.uitii pwerk Psidm-41bpulaion divided by number of pAt>-     Cs  Avwf AuexAdw  per Capi a r Y_ a-Ba-Dd on the
isingphysciasquaid fromamedicalshoolatunivetylveL    oumber of timts od during the yer induding admissions to
PeAr. pNtJw FVP.&-Pbpua     didd  by nuIber of                drive-in cnemas and mobile units
pactidng male and femal gaduate nurses, assistant nues,       LBOR FORCE
pracal nures and nusng auwxiliaries
hpsl.dhs p..  espita Dud-m   wham,and           otad Lab.. Fee (rhourauds)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban. and rurl) divided by their respecti  number of  studeng amed  forevs and uemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and privae, geneal and specialized  ~   t.  oeiPplto   falae.Dfntosi
hosls and rehabilitation entersp -  am    blishm.nw       varous cuntes are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 dam
p meuuz*tly stafd by at Icon one phyician Esblishen.      Fmak (peum)-Femalee lbor force. peracntag of total labor
idiag pricipaly custodial cae ame not inuded. RuraL hospihta  fo roce
houeverinrludebeakhandinedicalcntcrs notpemanentlyst-afd      4      r,*ubw  (pwcn-Lar fore in farin,  ore. huntig
by a physica (b  by a medicl asistt  e, midwife, etc.)    - and fishing as percntage of to  labor fore; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which oft i-patn accommodation and providc a limited rag      data
of medxil facidies                                            hmstuy (pwu  wj-Labor force in mining, conrction,  manu-
Adudiuu pe HospW ia  W:-Total number of admisions to or       factrigand dectridtywaterandsapeentapeototal labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the nunber of beds.      form; 1960 1970 and 1980 data..
HOUSING                                                       or avity ram are comnputed as ta nak, and feme labor forc
AwW Su of H.wMld (pemu p- hauehId-r.f-wham,                   as percenages of toL mae and femak popuat- of al ags
avdrowaAhouseholdois-s ofagroup ofidvidual who share          mpectivly. 1960 1970, and 1983 data. Thee are baed on LOs
ving quarters and thir main mes  A boarder or lodger nmay or  partipationratesreflectingag-sexucteofthepopulaionand
may not be induded in the hoashold for sastica purposes,      lg time trend. A few estim    e fm nadona souC
Avas Number of Pr,. per Room-wl. xrm, amd nral-               Euo_u  Depndeucy Rah-Rido of popunltionud  1and
Average number of person  per room in all urban, nd rural     65 and over to the -orking age populaton (thos aged 15-64).
occpied conventiol dwengs, respecively. Dwellinp  xcwde
non-permanentstruures and unoccupied pat                      INCOME DlSrIDURmON
Paretag of D-wlNg with Ebee6xity -wd when,- anaf' -.    Parenage of Tate Diw-okable lma (bhh in cmo aad Mund)-
Conventional dwellings with dericirty in lving quarter as percen-  Accruing to percetile groups of bouseholds rnked by total house-
tap of tota, urban, and rural dwelg rspetvely,                hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGEr GRtOUPS
A4-udEwoUmr Ratdos                                            The followg estimates ar very appro:nima  meases of poverty
Primar    wol - aora, mak andJ fex&.Gr   total male a         levels, and should be int t      with condeble caution.
female enrlment ofall ags at the primary ld as pentge of      E_atwatdAkha r Poawry h.mw Lewfd (LWpa cwhs)-a_hn
respecti  primary sdcool-ge popultions While mnay countie     md met-Absolute povrty income level is that inaom  lvdel
consder primay school ag to be 6-11 years other do noL The    below whidi a Iminial nutitionally adequate diet pils essential
d     _iee     in coUltry practces in the ages and duration of shool  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflcted in the ratios givnL For some countries with universal  Es tb d Rekie Poverty fnme Lew (USC per cqWr-._m
educatn, gross enrolment may exceed 100 percnt since some     anwul-Rural relatv  poverty income leve is onthird of
pupils ae bdow or above the cwuWs sandud prmy-schoo           average per capit personal inwomc of tbe country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived frm  the  ral lee with adjustment for biger cost of
Secondry shodol - totaL mk and femuk-Compued as above;        lving in urbn areas
secondary edution requires at least four yer of approved pri-  Ew       a ped isu Nelme ABe bswA ute Popy ucme LWel (pg-
am" -mstructiow profids general, voctonal, or teacher taining  cevs)-m      _d wFe-- Prcent of popution (urban and ral
- inuucts for pupis unly of 12 to 17 yes  of age; coresponKi  who are 'absoluwe poor.-
cnce comcs are gneally exduded.
Voca*i:na Eneni (percemc of searndwy)-Vocational isttu-                 Comparaive Analysis and Data Division
mos include tcncal indsriaL or otder progrs which opert               Economic Analysis and rojeckis Deprment
in-pendnd:y or as deparqm  of scondary institutions.                                  June 1985
I,  . : -; =; -



2._ .-..-. --ANNEXI
Page 5 of 7
or  ~ME.V   ISZ.971  (1I0
-                                                                  CI
-Y                                               -         m  .               i         -: -              -      -
, ' _:.:-:-
vm winc  ~                 i*3          7.5   3.7  14.3  -OA           6.3      2.0    3.0      3.4    3.4    3.4    35
*                     *  ~~~~~~       ~~~1.746  3.5   5.3  -2.3  -0.9  7.3     3.5    &   3.0   3     3.5    3.3    3.5
*    -2--                        4.27         6.2   2.6216       3.0       11.        20    3.0       2.3    3.5    335    43
* ;,.                                    9.1   6.7 --.4  -19            4.6       LS    30       3.      3.3    34 33
.AS          4.2  12.2  -33.3   -.                  -L7    0A        13    1S    Li    1         :      
~~u   7.~~~            2,715zi     3L.2   SJ  -45.4  jj           =        4      14.2     3A      9.4    ,a     9.7
bpmf ci Om  ar  -             km6         14.3  -83   10.9   1.4         4.1       65    5.0       435    31    3        3.7
*  ~~~~CI d - ad-                -4,m         15.   14.7  -3.9  -9.4        14.2    -12       LI       2.1    3.6    3.3    4.2
aim nam  --w                    au2       27.  -41.2  -35.   -U.         au.     *36.9   3.       MA    21.2   21.3   16.0
Ur--ib                        549.0     23.2  13.4  113   26.9         133      3.O    2.0      3.0    2L0    3.0    3.0
-~~~~ ---s --    Ue  5 of 7
,. -   _m 1421  TM;, Lia-M ur1
Q}                          mu   MA   u       M.  10          -0.3      73    -09       3.0
V2m1n                      63   6.6   7.2   9.4   9.6         0.0     2.9     Li      3.3
kdmmm7            Z3.3  3.3  21.4  3D.8  21.0         -Li      7.    -1.6       3.2
sordm              ~67.7  73.1  71.4  693   69.        3.7     8.1    -Li       2.9
Cl--AEFCL-           MA   NJ.  58.   51    743          0.0     6.4    1L3       1.2
Q~ Tommul16.5  13.   ZL0   13.0  193                  -1.       19.6   -9.7      9.0
dfm   GE Qd adS         15.0  3.3   ZL.8   33   253         23     1.       03      3.0
at aib ad WS         14.4  27.   27.0  21.4  ZIA        -2.     19.3   -68       36
(km atlnil w1w              35.1  7.9  13.9   9.5  19.2       -77      13.    -7.9    17.9
'>pb'  " =w  -.it                      ld - 
cm  _W& *m CZ)            J            1"1     -1  12.91    3.4
*   Saipi~m (4 tim ar    van co-        L.4  -2
.:-'    1    -                          4. ..
m  -          7.1     3.
-,4a  mm                   07    0.75
T Mt  1   dd                    LIIZ     14
.  _ .                                           ;~,   . 
: ~       c        nPJCdTMf  mttpc1
a*Damm camm-t-c90 b& 1329 S32AL02 502D



`24-                                                ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
w !5S-; :                                           - ma    co:
-~~ 24-                                                                                             I 9  S
-. -             .lwO          *      -
3,465                        4.6    4.6       466     5.5    6.0      6.1
G*W1,4m                                                           3.8    3.8      3.8    3.8    3.8    3.8
ftm1lUin1.Gbb                   356                          7.4    7.6      7.3    7.5    7.6    7.8
-:-d  Qb                       1,9,=                        4.5    435      46       .      6.      84
*   on= ca                           424                         5.2    4.7       Li1    5.1    5.0    5.0
IFACUBS M                        3,390                        0       2.LO      L9     3.7    3.9    4.6
TM&                    ~~~~~424                    -1.7    0.0       0.0     Li1    0.0      1.3
Namend cb   axkb41L                                 0.0    2.1       2.4    3.4    3.6       3.8
!tr bmmo*m G c l Qub  5u                                     0.0    2.9 *4           4.8 ,2          5.9
, -:  (1977-I0
IF    h-T                                                    119   .3        337    1.-    161       174
1mpt hi   bm                                                115    122       LI2    143    i52       165
ofd auk                                                   103    103      103     Mt~   10        105
:-~ ~ ~ ~~z
Um|,   l 
:    ,,/



ANNEX I
-2'5 -                                                           Page 7 of 7
338-m            t coe pne -
ACTUAL                                         Fd6
v   9 BOD&           m& -UM    unim    m  -%v  7~   - mm-%                                 MA  -V   -lmAm  W4  -W  -.I -79
cktm -ON d bt 61             -211.    '.3.    -39.   -416.1  -36.9 -1.015  -3.316.   -33.1M    20.3   -3.0    51730    3120   1.31   1,33    51m  1.
ars Mdm          33aum        MA3.   2.42,   2916.2  2.16    4,3.    3.567    5.33.     Am.  1,90.   d,35u    6,6    Z.3    49    73    83    9
~ m   . &M     £3          12.07.     MA-1.93                 .9.0 223.   3430-.1 .ML9,3.  -4.*2.  I9.316.  -4,62.  2415L9   -4,111  -6,6   -43   -63   -711     In31
Cho  Is                    -61.60CMM      -33.7  -319.   -M.3  -Us.6 -1.3.  -1,57.  -2.162.    SW31.   -3.32.    -.m   4,3   -233   -26   - a4   -
ll-- so"nw.e6                           31.     WA      15.     0        61.     46.      13      90        31.7      13     3.3   i?                LS  131
Q  ~MAMMM                  3 FbC  Z13~3   146.3   63.3 4  316.    16.6  1,03.   1.26.  -1..0     4.3 -373         2         0      0
~~ bmin  ~~~~    73.3~6 ..j3   -3.   -43 13 -517-.2.    2.   13.                     1.       3.                                         
Nim L         4m61.    49.    6.   11 2                       .01133913790   ,1.  2 .1133                          .332,9          W32,1.   .3.219
Od     dlmm                   0 4   3          2       3      4          e       3        3       4      -37          33     3.       .      .       .     .
nml     am a31n         W Ja       433  473  1.46   1.3    47    .1    .31662
BUDin                           46   32   31    31    13   1.    3-2
adi m11131ma                    14    1    29    39   62  -..i
ML    112L                     1    U              22         ..   2  ..    ..     3      73
odaL                         2.51 2.152 I2O   1,17   1 1.10 .13   1.M1  1.1    L,6    .63
rkt~~~~              4120  ,20  I.6IZ  2.443  3.1d3  3.292VW5  3.M 35.51.1  7.20
-1~ON&a                    620  712  go0  1.M3  2.7A 1 J 6,3.13   3.6   7.34   SWM
amgm                           3MG   901  L,01  1.116  1.531  2.146  2.33  2,31  2.03  2.612
175  210  231   318   560   913  1,43   1,14   I,35  I,61
Zn0 Of31O                      31    41   39    33    3.    At    so    63    SD
*           &u. I~~~am. -m- o   cm     pdi1k la  (1) 7.2   7.3   L.7  10.6  12.9  13.   13.       WI6.
*  ~~~~~~~dal ~~~~~~~~6.1   6.6    76   OA0   7.5   9.2   9.2
*                                     3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A3   3.9    &A3  30.   13.2   3.3  16.2   -
AM   docU  -to  ph. 3am Cjm.) 14.5  10.    65   3.1   7.5   6.3  107 .
3D4  MA.  17.3  137   13.7  16.6   OA.
311                    10.3~~~~~ ~~ 5.A   5.7  7.3   7.3   6.0   3.7
MM=W1kM                         3.5  3.3   3.9  3.5   3.3   3.3   461    4.5   5.0    16
3inbAjm.      V*Uic 001           Si7   is    1.6  1.1   La    1.6   2.9                     LA*. 1.
3~  in4mLIa%tc  Af mavim    5.6   19    1.61.9             36    12    LO       ..     ..    17
33ai*Jmc.   m~                    -    -       -mm  -  -    -     -                    -
3n3df mwdm/mL d*k swc
~afdpiL   d.a  3um              59.0 M
nmm   dw  .W 10 3m.                       MD.



=26-                          luuuz II
Page 1 of 2
TUE STAM1U OF UhK GROWP OPKUkIONS 3N CWXJZ
.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
A. STAIEHET OF BANK LOANS MND IMA CREDILTS (as at Marchi 31,, .1985)
Loamn or                                                   $mlio
Credit    Fiscal                                 Ahut (less  aclaiua
Number      Year    Borrower                       Bank   IDA  Uiadisbursed
25 loans and one credit fully disbursed           326.2   22.9 1/     -
1832        1980    Chile     Water Supply         32.4    -         7.7
1902        1981    Chile     Agri. Credit         36.0    -        11.0
1927        1981    Chile     Highway Recon.       42.0    -         0.4
2297        1983    Chile     Highway Recon. II   128.0    -        97.2
2481        1983    Chile     Agri. Serv./Credit   56.0    -        56.0
2482        1983    Chile     Housing              80.0    -        60.7
2504        1985    Chile     Public Sector Mgt.   11.0    -        11.0
Total                                             711.6  22.9
of which has been repaid                        208.9    4.5
Total now outstanding                             502.7   18.4
Amount sold                     7.2
of which has been repaid      7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    502.7   18.4
- ~ ~~~ Nbbr-X bswr ProeSi
Total undisbursed                                                  244.0
-       1/  Includes exchange rate adjustments. The original amount of the credit
was US119C0 million.



:  27 -
m.xR II
ARM~~~~~~~  . .
Page 2 of 2
B. STTERXE N   OF IYC IlRSEZHTOS (as at Narch 31, 1985)
pincal                            Type of    -auot in MSS ulilion
Year        Obligor              Businews          l .  -oau -Bb ut  Total
1958, 1959, Enpresa Minera de               *  -    :        .
1966, 1984    Mantos Blancos      Copper mdning     35.10    4.25    39.35
1959, and   Fideos y klimentos
1965          Carozzi S.A.        Food products      1.50    0.15      1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement             1.20    0.10      1.30
1963        Cia. Manufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones Pulp and paper    3.00       -       3.00
1970        Kinera Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining    10.45    0.45    10.90
Money and Capital
1982        Inverchile              Markets            -     0.20     0.20
Total gross commitments                 51.25    5.15    56.40
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                  34.75    0.70    35.45
Total Commitments now held by IFC   16.50    4.45    20.95
Total Undisbursed                   20.00    1.88   21.88
. ~~                 ..



!  28
a  a inn nun awn~nne II
as=l   AND MaMM  Milos       PRJ
Smotla I:  TImetable of Key Dramta:
(a)    Time taken by the country to prepare project:  five montn's.
(b)    Project Prepared by: SERCOTEC with Bank assistance.
tc)     First presentation to the Bank:   September 1984.
(d)    Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November 1984 and January 1985.
(e)     Completion of Negotiations:       July 8, 1985
(r)    Planned date for effectiveness:   December 15, 1985
Section II: Special Dank Implnentation Itaac:
None.
Secion:I: Sial CondItIons:
A.  The Borrower would provide assurances that:
(a) on-lending arrangements between CORPO, SERCOTEC and participating
commercial banks would be covered by subsidiary loan agreements
contanin1 terms and conditions satisfactory to the Dank
{Pam. 56); and
(b) interest rates, fees and commissions would be reviewed by CORFO,
SERCOTEC and the Bank not later than every six months and, if
found necessary, adjusted in order to maintain interest rates
positive in real terms, in line with market conditions, and
sufficiently attractive to promote commercial bank participation
in the project (para. 60).
B.   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be:
(a) that a Guarantee Fund, whose structure, coverage and procedures
are satisfactory to the Bank, is fully operational (para. 49); and
(b) that CORFO and SERCOTEC have adopted a statement of policy and
p-ocedures and a credit manual satisfactory to the Bank, in
respect to the proposed project (para. 57).
C.   Conditions for Disbursement of the Risk Capital Fund would be
that:
(a) payments by CORFO to the Fund would be made parE   passu with pay-
ments to be made by the Bank (pan. 50);
(b) operational rules and regulations including the specific neasures
which CORPO will undertake to divest itself of its share partici-
pation in the Fund have been defined (para. 51); and
(c) that the Risk Capital Fund is established by CORFO and is fully
operational, and that COR10 has subscribed USS2 million equivalent
into the Fund (para. 51).






