Document of
Thrie Worl d Bank
FOlt OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
gt#' 2&1 ?-CII
Report No. 5579-CR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
SMALL AIND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PRCO..T
July 16, 1985
PROJECT DEPARTMENT
LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN REGIONAL OFFICE
This document has a restricted distribution and may be sed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its cotents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEn4S
Exchange rate as of December 31, 1984
US dollar $1.00 = Chilean peso $124
Chilean peso $1.00 = US dollar 0.008
Abbreviation Ch$ = Chilean peso
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CB          Central Bank of Chile
CONUPIA     Confederacion Gremial Nacional Unida de la Mediana y Peauena Industria
(National Confederation of small and Medium Industrial Associations)
COREO       Corporacion de Fomento de la Producion
(Production Development Corporation)
CPI         Consumer Price Index
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IFC         International Finance Corporation
INACAP      Instituto Nacional de Capacitacion Profesional
(Nacional Institute of Professional Training)
HSI         Medium Scale Industry
PAEM        Programa de Apoyo a Empres1.as de Menor Tamano
(Program to Support Artisan Enterprises)
PROCHILE    Instituto de Promocion de Exportaciones de Chile
(Chilean Export Promotion L -tute)
PROMEPI     Program-a de Apoyo Integral a la Mediana y Pequena Industria
(Integrated Support Program for Small and Medium Industry)
SERCOTEC    Servicio de Cooperacion Teciica
(Technical Cooperation Service)
SMI         Small and Medium Industry
SSI         Small Scale Industry
UF          Unidad de Fomento
(Unit of Development)



-i-                   FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................................... iii - v
I.   THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS .........................    I
A.  Industry in the Economy ...,,,,,,,...,,   1
1.   Small and Medium Scale Industries (SMI)    . .            2
2.   SMI Policy   .* ............... ...........,,.,,,         2
B.   The Financial System and Institutional Setting.                    3
C.   Bank Strategy in the Sector .............................    6
II.  THE PROJECT,...,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,...,,....    7
A.   Project Justification ....................................    7
1. Project Objectives           .         .                    7
2.   Expected Demand and Proposed Loan   .        .            7
3. The Loan .                                                  9
4.   Special Accounts .......... . ............ , .. ......    9
5.  Project Cost and Financing .               .               9
B.   Project Description ......................................   10
1.   Project Execution .....          .........................   10
2.   Credit Component ....               ........................   11
3.   Guarantee Fund .........    .      ..................  .,, 12
4.   Risk Capital Component ..........................   13
5.   Relending Terms and C      onditions ..................   13
6.   Technical Assistance and Training Component ......   14
7.   Responsibilities of Financial Intermediaries ....   15
8.   Procurement and Disbursement             .      .        16
9.   Accounting and Auditing....,... .............   17
C.   Project Benefits and Risks ............................           17
III. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONSo ...............................        18
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Chile in November -
December 1984 composed of N. C. Hughes, J. Press, J. P. Wogart, LCPI2; and
F. Helms, consultant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1        SERCOTEC's Operating Policies and Procedures ........        19
ANNEX 2        SERCOTEC's Credit Manual............................         24
ANNEX 3        Estimated Schedule of Disbursements.        ................  34
ANNEX 4        Selected Documents Available in the Project File ...         35
ANNEX 5        SERCOTEC's Key Indicators for Project Implementation         36
ANNEX 6        Supporting Tables ....... *.                                 38
T-1        Structure of GDP and Manufacturing (and Structural
Change within Manufacturing .......................          38
T-2        Employment Levels and Growth ..........................      39
T-3        Indicators of Small, Medium and Large Industry ......        40
T-4        Capital Formation and Intensity ........... ............     41
T-5        Main Accounts of the Chilean Banking System* .......         . 42
T-6         SERCOTEC's Historical Balance Sheets 1981-84 ........       43
T-7        SERCOTEC's Historical Income Statements 1981-84 .....        44
T-8        SERCOTEC's Projected Balance Sheets 1984-87 .........        45
T-9        SERCOTEC's Projected Income Statements 1984-87 ......        46



- iii -
.UHLIC OP CHILE
SMALL AND  DMIUR NUSTy PROJECT
lOAN AND PROJECT SUNKARY
Borrower:     Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (CORFO)
Guarantor:   The Republic of Chile
Erecuting
Agency:     Servicio de Cooperacion Tecnica (SERCOTEC)
Amount:       US$40 million equivalent
Terms:        Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:      CORFO would onlend the proceeds of the loan, either directly or
through financial intermediaries, to small and medium scale in-
dustrial enterprises (SMI) and would participate in equity in-
vestments under a Risk Capital Fund. CORFO would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank Loan and the commercial risk
on subloans and investments made by it thereunder. Commercial
banks would bear the commercial risk of the subprojects
financed through them. Annual interest payments by participat-
ing commercial banks and project beneficiaries would be over
outstanding loan balances adjusted by the Chilean Consumer
Price Index, which is reflected in a monetary unit of account
(UF). The interest rate charged to participating banks would
be five percent on UF for medium-scale industry subloans, and
four percent on UF for small-scale industry subloans.   The in-
terest rate charged to project beneficiaries would be eight
percent on UF with the exception of artisans who will pay in-
terest at the same rate as participating banks. The adequacy
of these rates would be reviewed every six months. A one per-
cent front-end fee would be charged on all credit operations.
Subloans for fixed assets and associated working capital would
have a repayment period of up to ten years, including a maximum
of three years grace. Subloans for free-standing working capi-
tal would be repayable over a period of up to five years, in-
cluding up to one year grace.   Export promotion and technology
improvement subloans would have a repayment period of up to
five years, including up to two years grace.
Project
Description:  The proposed project would promote employment, productivity and
output in small and medium scale industries (SMI), through an
integrated credit and technical assistance program. It would
also strengthen the management and technical skilis of those
institutions involved in the program.



Project
Benefits:       The proposed project would represent a significant step in
helping the Chilean Government to address the problems af-
fecting small and medium scale industry, and would promote
the participation of selected commercial banks, thus enabling
many SMI to have access to the banking system. The project
would also help potential erporters to find foreign markets.
Project Risk=:  There are no unusual risks involving the project.
One potential risk is that the recent financial crisis
may have affected investors attitudes, and credit demAnd may
be lower than expected. Another risk is that expected
commercial bank participation may not be fully achieved.
Nevertheless, since a substantial part of the loan is er-
pected to be processed by SERCOTEC and CORFO, failure of com-
mercial banks to participate, would not seriously affect the
utilization of the loan.
Estimated Costs:                 Local        Foreign        Total
(In Millions of US Dollars)
Credit Component                 25.5          36.0           61.5
Artisan Industries-             4.0       - ---4.0           8.0
- Small Scale Enterprises       10.0           15.0           25.0
Medium Scale Enterprises       10.0           15.0          25.0
Erport Promotion                1.1            1.6           2.7
Technology Development          0.4           0.4            0.8
Risk Capital Component            8.0            2.0          10.0
Technical Assistance and
Training Component              1.5            2.0           3.5
Consulting Services             0.4           0.9            1.3
Vehicles and Equipment           -             0.3           0.3
Management Training             0.6            0.6           1.2
Project Evaluation Seminar      0.5           0.2            0.7
Total Project Cost               35.0          40.0           75.0
Financing Plan
Government                     12.3           -             12.3
Participating Banks             4.0                          4.0
Beneficiaries                  18.7           -             18.7
Bank                            0.0          40.0           40.0
Total                     35.0          40.0           75.0



-  v  -
Bsti-ted
Diabuzseueutu:                (Bank T in millions of US Dollars)
1986    1987    198B    1989    1990    1991
Annual                   5.0    10.0    14.5       5.0     3.0      2.5
Cumulative               5.0    15.0    29.5    34.5    37.5    40.0
Rate of Retm:            Not applicable



CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJ CT
I.  DTi INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SEIORS
A. Industry in the Economy
1.01      Since 1973, the Government has followed economic reforms which
reduced the Government's intervention in the economy and allowed the market
to allocate economic resources. While these reforms involved almost all
aspects of economic policy, the change that more directly affected the
industrial sector was the reduction of import tariffs from a system with an
average level of 97 percent in 1973, to a uniform tariff system with a 10
percent level in 1979. Import substitution, the main source of industrial
growth in the previous decades, severely contracted as a result.
1.02      By the late 197U's, the industrial sector began to respond
favourably to the Government's macroeconomic policies. Resource-based,
export-oriented industries, such as fishing, pulp and paper, lumber and
fresh fruits, grew at a very fast rate. Most investment in that period
took place in these industries. The growth of manufactured export products
has also been significant, primarily in engineering industries and chemical
products, which together accounted for about 15 percent of total
manufactured and semi-manufactured products by the late 197U's.
1.03      The fixing of the exchange rate in June 1979, however, changed
this growth trend. The ensuing overvaluation of the peso made imports
relatively cheaper leading to a sharp rise in their consumption at the
expense of domestic production in 1980-bl. Through 1980, the adverse
effect of a fixed peso on export-oriented firms was partially offset by
rising international prices. However, as foreign markets began to weaken
in 1981 many exporting subsectors had to reduce output. Meanwhile, the
availability of cheap foreign credit had led to a speculative boom.
Industrial enterprises, and particularly large industrial conglomerates,
borrowed heavily in dollars. When foreign lending contracted sharply in
1982, the speculative boom came to an end, and overall domestic demand
contracted sharply. Virtually all industrial subsectors experienced
reductions in production, but the situation was particularly serious for
the import-competing non-durable consumer goods. As a result, many
industrial firms became technically bankrupt.
1.04      Whereas overall and subsectoral growth has fluctuated
substantially,since 1973 a clear-cut trend of structural change has emerged
within the industrial sector. The more resource-based, export oriented
industries have consistently gained in importance during the last 15
years. They reached about three-quarters of total industrial value-added
in 1979, and increased that share to over 82 percent in 1983
(Annex 6, T-1). At the same time, import substitution industries, which



had captured nearly 40 percent of industrial output in tne late l9gb's,
suffered a further decline from 24 percent of industrial output in 1969, to
less than 16 percent in 1983. Employment in the industrial sector, which
in the late 1960's accounted for about 20 percent of total employment, fell
from an absolute number of over 500,000 in 1980, to 35U,UOO in 198, and
its relative share fell from 16 percent, to 12.b percent during the same
period (Annex 6, T-2). The overall decline in industrial employment,
however, was not evenly distributed.   Large firms were the most aftected,
and accounted for most of the 150,000 jobs lost in the sector. Medium
sized firms increased employment slightly in absolute and relative terms.
The effect on small industry was negative: lost jobs were of the order of
1,500, but artisan industries were affected more severely. Since mid-1982,
however, employment gains have been substantial, with total manufacturing
employment returning to a level of 440,000 in 1984.
Small and Medium Scale Industries (SKI)
1.05      Overall, SHI had more difficulty adjusting to Government policy
changes than their larger-sized competitors, because (i) Governsent
technical assistance was drastically cut; (ii) competition from abroad
intensified; and (iii) credit became extremely expensive. The share in
industrial output of small-scale enterprises fell from 25 percent in the
mid-19b0's to 15 percent between 1979 and 1983. By contrast, the output
share of mediumr-scale enterprises remained constant during the same period
(Annex 6, T-3), and the output share per worker increased by 25 percent.
1.0b      While part of the decline in labor productivity of the small
firms is explained by the loss of markets domestically and abroad, several
other factors indicate weaknesses which must be addressed if this subsector
is to play a role in the future development of the country. Recent surveys
show that about b5 percent of the total fixed assets in enterprises
employing between 10 and 49 people are over 10 years old. About 8U percent
of machinery in artisan industry is older than 10 years. Conversely, most
large firms have renewed their capital stock, and capacity utilization was
of the order of 75 percent in 1979, and 85 percent in 1982.  SMIs, overall,
utilized only about one-half of their capacity in recent years, and artisan
industries used even less (Annex b, T-4). This situation has been
aggravated more recently by the earthquake that struck central Chile on
March 3, 1985. This region contains the largest concentration of Chilean
industry. SERCOTEC carried out a survey on the effects of the earthquake
on SMIs, and estimates that some 4,UU0 to 4,500 firms were damaged. Total
reconstruction costs have been estimated at about USS35 million
equivalent.
1.07      The obsolescence of SMI equipment and the low capacity
utilization can be explained in part by the limited access to long-term
credit for investment and working capital by small industry. The debt of
SMIs represent about 4 percent of the total debt of the sector -- much less
than their 14 percent share of industrial value-added.
SIff Policy
1.08      SMI firms in the 1960's and early 1970's prospered in an
environment of high protection and ample credit at low interest rates.
Census data from 1967 indicate that profit rates in those firms were



- 3 -
substantially above rates of return for larger firms. However, studies on
SI's carried out during the period suggest substantial constraints to
further SKI growth due to (i) an unskilled or semi-skilled labor force;
(ii) low level of capacity utilization; (iii) obsolescence of installed
machinery; (iv) low level of education of enterpreneurs (more ttkan half of
the small scale industrialists had only completed primary education); and
(v) excessive concentration on small local markets.
1.09      The reduced Government role in the economy, also led to a
restriction of its role in the development of industry in general, and a
decrease in support to SMI's in particular. The activities of Servicio de
Cooperacion Tecnica (SERCOTEC), which in the past had played a substantial
role in providing technical assistance, training and credit to SMI's, were
reduced to a minimum.
1.10      In the aftermath of Chile's most recent recession, when
unemployment has become one of the most pressing social and economic
problems, the Government has shown renewed interest in developing an
efficient SMI subsector.  In the context of the Govenment's development
program for 1984-86, which calls for the generation of employment and
promotion of exports in the industrial sector, SMIs are now viewed as an
important instrument for the creation of employment opportunities. Indeed,
the investment cost per job in small and medium industries, can range from
about one third to about one tenth of the cost of generating a job in large
enterprises. The Government also aims at strengthening-tA .productive
capacity and competitiveness of SMIs to enable them to supply larger
industries and local markets, and to penetrate selected external markets.
To support these objectives, the Government, through COR1O and SERCOTEC,
has established an integrated credit/technical assistance program for the
development of SMIs, which is geared to address the problems constraining
their growth. SERCOTEC, which in the past had been severely weakened, is
being given sufficient financial and human resources to enable it to play a
key role in the provision of technical assistance and training to SMIs, and
in particular, for its program to support artisan industrial enterprises
(PAEM) .
B. The Financial System and Institutional Setting
1.11      The Chilean financial system comprises the Central Bank of Chile
(CB), which is the largest monetary authority in the country; 3b commercial
banks, the largest of which, Banco del Estado, is state-owned; seven
savings and loan companies; CORFO, the national development bank and state
holding company; and SERCOTEC, a wholly-owned CORFU subsidiary, which is
responsible for providing credit and tecnnical assistance to small and
medium scale industrial enterprises. Commercial banks are multi-banking
institutions which operate both at the short and long term ends of the
market providing all types of credit and trading in mortgages and
commercial paper. Savings and Loan companies are small institutions that
are not allowed to receive demand deposits and account for less than
two percent of outstanding credit owed to the system. The CB shares with
the Superintendency of Banks the responsibility for supervising the
financial system.



- 4 -
1.12      The interest rates for 30-day deposits and credits are currently
suggested by the CB, and are positive in real terms. Peso-denominated
instruments (deposits and credits) with maturities of over 90 days are
adjusted in accordance with the movements of the Consumer Price Index,
which are reflected in a monetary unit of adjustment (UF). Maturities of
less than 90 days are expressed in nominal peso terms at levels which are
consistent with market rates.
1.13      The speculative boom of 1980-82 greatly affected the banking
sector, which suffered losses equivalent to more than 3 times its equity
capital, and which forced the Superintendency of Banks to intervene I/ in
the day-to-day management of eight banks in the country (three of them have
since been liquidated). The Government also undertook a recapitalization
scheme of non-intervened banks, designed to improve their liquidity
position. The scheme has not solved the non-intervened banks' portfolio
problems, and risk assets still represent 34 percent of their equity
capital. Nevertheless, these banks are operating profitably and are
buiding up reserves to cover potential losses. The financial situation of
the five intervened banks remains precarious (Annex 5, T-5). These banks
account for about 40 percent of outstanding debt owed to the system, and
are carrying deferred losses equal to about 90 percent of their equity.
The Government has recently announced a program to recapitalize these banks
which was discussed with the Bank in the context of the Structural
Adjustment program.
1.14      Although access by SMT to commercial credit in general has been
limited, some credit lines have recently been created primarily for them.
Banco de Desarrollo operated such a line, but individual loans had to be
guaranteed by a fund established at Banco del Estado. When the guarantee
fund became fully committed in September 1984, this credit line also
ceased. Banco del Estado also has a credit line for industry which is
available to SMI, but the interest rate of UF4- 9.5 percent per annum is
high, and these firms find it difficult to meet guarantee requirements.
Finally, SMI's had access to a recent IDB credit line through CORFO. This
line has been fully committed. A repeater operation is planned for 1986,
which, like its predecessor, will be a global line of credit available to 4
sectors (industry, agriculture, mining and fishing). Although the
possibility for some overlap exists, this is not expected to be an obstacle
to utilization of the Bank's loan (para 2.04).
1.15      CORFO was established in 1939 as an autonomous government
corporation responsible for promoting the development of productive
activities in Chile, through the establishment and management of its own
enterprises, and the provision of loans and guarantees to private sector
corporations. CORFO also engages in research and carries out basic studies
necessary for the development of its programs. Its statutes enable it to
borrow externally, and to relend these funds to domestic private and public
enterprises.
I/   Intervened, in the Chilean context, means the taking over, by the
Superintendency, of the day-to-day management of financial
institutions, without affecting their ownership structure.



- 5 -
1.16      CORFO has 10 subsidiaries, which carry out productive activities
(sugar, mining, steel, chemicals, and explosives) and provide services
(telecommunications, electric power, electronic data processing). Its
research and development program is carried out through four institutes
which are CORFO subsidiaries, and which cover activities in agriculture,
forestry, industry, mining, fishing and energy. As of December 31, 1984
CORFO had total assets of CH$491.4 billion (US$4.0 billion), with total
capital and reserves of about CH$439.7 billion (US$3.5 billion).
Liabilities amount to Ch$51.7 billion (US$416.9 million).
1.17      SERCOTEC, a CORFO subsidiary, was established in 1952 to assist
small and medium enterprises to become more efficient and productive
through the provision of technical assistance at the enterprise level,
training of the labor force, and credit. In the 1960s, the scope of its
activities included direct techrnical assistance to commercial enterprises,
banks, transport companies and public entities in general. Its credit
program to smaller enterprises (PAEM) also included help in the preparation
of credit applications, evaluation of proposals, assistance in carrying out
feasibility studies, and the creation of a subcontracting scheme. In
addition, it helped create some 40 SMI producer associations, the National
Confederation of Small and Medium Industrial Associations (CONUPIA), and
took the initiative in helping SMI develop non-traditional exports.
Beginning in 1973, the reduced role of the Government in the economy led to
a drastic decrease in SERCOTEC's activitities.
1.18      The Government's recent decision to help SMI resulted in the
resurgence of SERCOTEC, which is being given sufficient financial and human
resources to carry out its credit and technical assistance role. Between
1983 and 1984, sixteen regional offices were reopened, and seven PAEM
agencies re-established. As of June 30, 1985, SERCOTEC had some 339 staff
members, including some ]90 professionals. A large number of the
professional staff recently hired are former SERCOTEC staff, which have a
long experience in discharging SERCOTEC's responsibilities. SERCOTEC also
makes use of consultants, which account for about 5 percent of staff time.
1.19      SERCOTEC has a Board of Directors, whose president is the
president of CORFO's Board of Directors, or his designee, and five other
directors designated by CORFO, and one director representing rNACAP (a
CORFO subsidiary involved in vocational training). SERCOTEC is currently
organized in three departments. The Department of Studies is in charge of
carrying out sectoral and project-related feasibility studies. The
Administrative Department is in charge of the head office in Santiago,
financial planning, budget preparation and computing activities. Finally,
the Operations Department combines all of SERCOTEC's operations in a
single unit, under four separate divisions. The Technical Division handles
credit and technical assistance to SMI enterprises. The PAEM Division
operates an integrated program of assistance and credit to artisan
enterprises. The Programs Division is responsible for SERCOTEC's training
activities, and specialized programs like export development. The Regional
Coordination Division is responsible for the activities of all regional
offices, and for monitoring their performance.



- 6 -
1.20      As of December 31, 1984, SERCOTEC had total assets of ChS 287. 9
million (US$2.9 million), total liabilities of ChS 4.1 million (US$41
thousand), aad a net worth of ChS 283.8 millioa (USS2.8 million), largely
representing revaluation of physical and financial assets (Annex 6, T-6).
About three fourths of SERCOTEC's operating costs are covered by budget
allocatioas made through CORFO (Aanex 6, T-7). The remaining operatiag
costs are covered by service fees, and iaterest income from loans and
securities. During the 1985-87 period, SEROOTEC is expected to grow, with
total assets reaching ChS 2.5 billion (about US$25 million) in 1987
(Annex 6, T-8). Budgetary support from CORFO is expected to increase to
cover about 90 percent of its operating costs during the period. SEROOTEC
has agreed to submit its initial budget under the project to CORFO not
later than August 15, 1985, and to submit subsequent annual budgets prior
to August 15 thereafter.
C. Bank Strategy in the Sector
1.21      The Bank has identified two major coastraiats to continued growth
in the industrial sector. Oae is the finaacial crisis of many large
industrial eaterprises, which is closely linked to the problems affecting
the financial sector. The other is the low capacity utilization aad
obsoleceace of many SMIs, as well as their need to apply more appropriate
technologies, develop new markets, and most recently to rebuild plant aad
equipment which were damaged in the receat earthquake. The Government is
proceeding with a strategy which aims first, at assisting fiaancially
troubled, but efficient iadustrial corporations in their finaacial
restructuring; and second, at providing resources and techaical assistance
to small and medium enterprises to enable these firms to create new
employment opportunities, and increase output and productivity.
1.22      Consistent with this strategy, the Bank is financing a pilot
operation designed to assist the Governmeat in the establishment of the
institutional framework which will permit the financial restructuring of
large industrial enterprises. This loan would provide credit to finance
the normal operation aad expansion of some of the small scale enterprises
including credit and technical assistance.
1.23      Although the Bank made 14 loans to CORFO between 1948-74, none
were to support industrial development. These were concentrated ia
agricultural and livestock development, and expaasion of hydroelectric
generatioa and distribution facilities. Two of these loans were to support
the strengthening of INACAP. The proposed project would be the first IDF
project to support the developmeint of SMI in CHILE, and would assist the
Government in carrying out its integrated credit/technical assistance
program. In addition, the proposed project is specifically designed to
promote financial intermediation to SMIs, which, in the past had difficulty
in gaining access to commercial credit.



-7-
II. 7R PRDJD.CT
A. Project Justification
Yroiect Objectives
2.01      The important role given to SMIs by the government in its Trien-
nial Program for 1984-86 and its support for an iategrated program for the
development of SKI, represents a major departure from the policy of the
previous decade. The Governmeat of Chile is now emphasizing the role of
SMIs in helping to solve some of Chile's major economic problems, such as
high unemployment, low productivity and low levels of iavestment. A
project to help reactivate SMIs seems particularly timely to supporting
these goals. SMIs have a lower investment cost per job as well as a more
serious problem in utilizing existing capacity due to the age and condition
of their equipment, than do larger firms. An investment to restore a
firm's productivity can have a relatively larger impact on output,
therefore, for many individual SMIs when compared to larger enterprises.
Il addition, SMIs have greater difficulty in obtaining access to the crr'.t
system than larger firms, because many cannot meet commercial banks'
financial requirements. The proposed project is specifically designed to
increase financial intermediation to SMIs, and to have a significant impact
in opening up investment fiaancing to a larger number of SMI enterprises.
2.02      The proposed project would be the first Bank IDF project to
assist the government in supporting the development of SMN in Chile. More
specifically, the project would promote increased employment, output and
productivity in the SMI sector by providing SMIs with an integrated suppr%rt
package, including access to credit facilities on appropriate terms and
conditions, technical assistance linked to the institutional needs of
beneficiaries under the credit program, training and supporting services.
The project would also strengthen managemeat and technical skills in those
institutions which will provide credit, technical assistance and supporting
services to SMI. In addition, important initiatives would be taken under
the project to promote SMI exports and to foster equity investment in SMIs.
Expected Deuand and Proposed Loan
2.03      Available data, supported by iaterviews with SMIs, indicate that
this sector is experiencing a revival after enduring a very difficult
period, and this is reflected in estimates of potential credit demand.
A recovery registered by the industrial sector in 1984 can be expected to
continue (after a brief downturn in 1985), although on a more moderate
level. In addition, a recent survey by SERCOTEC shows that capital
equipment in SMls is much older than ia larger firms, and would need to be
replaced if SMIs are indeed to become more efficient and productive
entities (para. 1.06). Calculations based on conservative assumptions with
respect to both capacity expansion and replacement of existing capital



- 8 -
stock2/ suggest total potential investment by SMI of some US$145 million
over a 3-year period. The foreign exchange content of this machinery and
equipment is conservatively estimated to be at least 5UX, or US$75
million.3/ It is expected, particularly given the current foreign
exchange shortage, that credit financing will be sought for virtually this
entire amount. In the absence of alternative lines of credit for
investment financing for SMI, and assuming that about 20% of the total will
be financed through suppliers' credit, demand for machinery and equipment
financing under a Bank loan for Chilean SHI could be expected to reach
about US$20 million a year. The demand for free standing working capital
is estimated at about one-half of this amount. These projections are in
line with estimates of overall GDP growth during 1985-88 of between 27 and
3%, with industry growing at a slightly faster rate.
2.04      Data from the fully committed IOB-CORFO credit line, which was
not specifically oriented towards SMI, support the above estimates. Over
the two-year period from start-up to November 19Y4, almost US$50 million
were committed for subloans to small and medium-scale industry. More sig-
nificantly still, commitments in the last six months of that period
exceeded US$20 million. This strong increase in the level of commitments,
equivalent to over USS4U million annually, may in part be attributed to
more rapid commitments after a normally slow period for start-up of a new
program, and to a significant decline in the real interest rate charged tne
final borrowers, as well as to the marked change in the policy environment.
Thus, allowing for the possibility that some recent commitments reflected
pent-up demand, commitments in the range of US"1Z - US$20 million per annum
would appear reasonable, depending on whether another IVB loan materializes
(para. 1.14). In the meantime, COKFO and SERCOTEC's lending operations are
being constrained due to a lack of foreign exchange resources. It should
also be noted that the IDB credit line was channelled almost entirely
through CORFO and SERCOTEC, whereas the proposed Bank project will also
encourage participation by those commercial banks whose lending is oriented
to small- and medium-scale industry. The recent earthquake introduces
considerable uncertainty in the estimation of demand (para. 1.06).
However, the need to replace damaged or destroyed physical assets should
impel many enterprises to take investment decisions in the near future
rather than await more favorable circumstances, and demand for Bank
financing should be strongly stimulated in the short-term.
21   Assumptions: (a) recent recovery bringing increased capacity
utilization, but future growth to require 2X annual expansion of
capital stock; (b) one-third of capital stock over 2U years old and
one-sixth of capital stock between 10 and 2U years old to be replaced
during period.
3/   The Chilean Planning Ministry's Input-Output Table for 1977 indicates
a foreign exchange content of 63X for machinery and equipment; this
figure is probably still higher in more recent years due to
disincentives affecting the Chilean capital goods industry.



-9-
The Loan
2.05      Assuming a commitment period of about 3 years, and, taking into
account the estimated demand of SMIs for Bank financing (Para 2.04), a loan
of USS40 million is proposed. The loan would provide the investment
financing needed by SMIs to increase utilization of, expand or moeernize
existing capacity, or to establish new capacity. In adddition to
investments in machinery, equipment, and related civil works, both
associated and free-standing permanent workiag capital would be financed,
and a small amount would be allocated for promotion of aon-traditional
exports and for making equity investments in SMI. In addition, the
technical assistance needs of participating institutioins, as well as
beneficiaries under the project, would be financed. The Bank would finar,ce
up to 100% of SERCOTEC subloans, but in no case would Bank financing exceed
60X of thie total project costs of any subproject financed under the loan.
Based oa a total project costs estimated at US$75 million equivalent and
Bank financing of US$40 million, the Bank would finance 53.32 of the
project's total cost, including about 53Z of the credit component, 57? of
the technical assistance component, and 502 of the risk capital component.
Repayments to the Bank would be made over a fixed 15 year term, including 3
years of grace. The surplus of repayments to CORFO over repayments due to
the Bank would be relent for purposes consistent with those of the proposed
project. Ia order to meet the present acute financing needs of CORFO's and
SERCOTEC's clieats (para. 2.04), an amount not exceeding US$4 million would
be made available retroactively for financing expenditures made before the
date of loan signing, but after August 1, 1985.
Special Accounts
2.06      Two special accounts would be established at CB, to be utilized
by CORFO in facilitatiag disbursements under the project. A special
account for the credit and technical assistance components would be
established with an initial deposit of US$3,800,000, equal to 4 months
expected disbursements. A second special account, for transactions under
the risk capital component, would be established with an initial deposit of
US$200,000. Withdrawal applications for approved subprojects would be
submitted to CB accompaaied by full documentation except for subloans of
less than USS100,000 equivalent, which would be supported by statements of
expenditure.
Project Cost and Financing
2.07      The government would provide a total of US$12,3 million (16.4Z of
the estimated total cost of the project). Financial intermediaries are
expected to contribute US$4.0 million (5.32) and beneficiaries under the
project would provide US$18.7 million (25.0X). The financing plan for the
project is contained in Table 3.1 below.



- 10 -
TALEr 3.1
PROJECT FINMCIG PLAN
IBRD   GOVERNMENT   BANKS  BENEFICIARIES  TOTAL
I.   Credit Component
Artisan enterprises                4.0       3.0         -          1.0        8.0
Small-Scale enterprises           15.0       2.5         1.5       6.0        25.0
Medium-scale enterprises          15.0       2.5         2.5       5.0        25.0
Export Promotion                   1.6       0.5         -         0.6         2.7
Technology Development             0.4       0.3         -         0.]         0.8
Total Credit Component            36.0       8.8         4.0      12.7        61.5
II.  Risk Capital Component             2.0       2.0         -         6.0        10.0
III. Technical Assistance and Training Component
Consulting Services                0.9       0.4         -         -           1.3
Vehicles and equipment             0.3       -           -         -           0.3
Seminar in project evaluation      0.2       0.5         -         -           0.7
Management traiaing                0.6       0.6         -         -           1.2
Total Technical subsistance &
Training Component                 2.0        1.5        -         -           3.5
g ~ ==   
TOTAL                             40.0      12.3         4.0      18.7        75.0
Z of Total                        53.3%     16.4%        5.32     25.0%      100.0%
B. Project Description
Project Execution
2.08      For the proposed project, CORFO would be the borrower, and the
Republic of Chile would be the guarantor. SERCOTEC would be responsible
for the execution of the project. It would evaluate all sub-loan requests
and sub-project appraisals. Only sub-loans which have received the
technical approval of SERCOTEC would be considered by CORFO's Credit
Committee for final approval. SERCOTEC would also be responsible for
overall supervision of the project and for implementing the technical
assistance component. CORFO would onlemd part of the loan proceeds to
eligible financial intermediaries under subsidiary loan agreements
acceptable to the Bank sigaed by each participating commercial bank, CORFO
and SERCOTEC. Only commercial banks which are not intervened by the
Superintendency of Banks would be eligible to participate in the project.
2.09      The policies and procedures that would govern CORFO and SERCOTEC
operations under the proposed loan and the role of SERCOTEC as Executing



- 11 -
Agency under the proposed project are set forth in a Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures (Annex 1). Guidelines Eor sub-project appraisal
and supervision would be established in a Credit Manual (Annex 2), to be
used by CORFO, SERCOTEC and other participating financial intermediaries.
The content of the Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures and the
Credit Manual were agreed upon during negotiations of the proposed
project. Their approval by CORFO and SERCOTEC in a form satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of Loan effectiveness.
2.10      Financial intermediaries would assume primary responsibility for
the appraisal and supervision of their subprojects, and would bear the
credit risk. SERCOTEC's supervision would be designed to support and
monitcr their efforts, in order to ensure the quality of appraisals and
effectiveness of supervision by commercial banks. SERCOTEC would also be
responsible for implementing the technical assistance included in the
project.
2.11      CORFO would be responsible for the disbursement of all sub-loans,
either thrcugh commercial banks or directly to beneficiaries. CORFO would
also be responsible for monitoring and collecting repayments due from banks
or beneficiaries.
Credit Component
2.12      The Credit Component would include a total of US$36 million for
the following financing options designed to meet the financial needs of
Chilean SMIs.
'i)  US$30.0 million to be allocated evenly between SSI and
MSI, including (a) US$20 million for credit financing of
investment in fixed assets and related permanent working
capital (incremental working capital required to increase
production or for utilization of existing production) to
modernize and expand existing enterprises, establish new
ones or to reconstruct enterprises damaged by the recent
earthquake; and (b) US$S0 million for free standing
permanent working capital, also allocated evenly between
SSI and MSI, for enterprises requiring increased working
capital to improve the utilization of installed productive
capacity. Items financed under (a) would include
machinery, equipment and their installation costs,
(including used or reconditioned equipment exclusively for
SSI once its condition, price and useful life had been
certified by a qualified independent expert),4/ repair or
replacement parts, and industrial buildings and related
infrastructure.
4/   SERCOTEC would maintain a roster of sucb experts, whose qualifications
had been reviewed by and found satisfactory to the Bank.



- 12 -
(ii)   US$4.0 miliion for financing fixed assets, including certi-
fied used or reconditioned equipment (see (i), above), and
associated permanent working capital of artisan enterprises
receiving integrated assistance under the PAEM program.
(iii)    US$1.6 million for financing expenses associated with the
promotion of non-traditional manufactured exports (as
identified by the technical assistance component);
including product design and development, quality control
and testing, production of samples, and cost of foreign
travel and other marketing expenditures associated with
product promotion in specific foreigp markets.
(iv)    US$0.4 million for financing the costs of tecbnology
development, including product design, testing, and
development; as well as the costs of the initial
production run.
Guarntee Fund
2.13.     The existence of a guarantee fund is considered essential to
substantially increase the involvement of the commercial banking system in
the financing of SMI. A guarantee fund available to an productive sectors
was established in 1980 and is operated by Banco del Estado, a state-owned
commercial bank, under procedures established by CB's Executive Committee.
However, this fund's capability of reaching SKI has been severely limited
by its exposure-to-capital ratio (fixed at 1:1 or US$10,000,000), which has
been fully utilized, and by its guarantee limit of UF 1,500 (US$22,500
equivalent) for enterprises with total assets of UF 5,000 (US$75,000
equivalent) or less. To provide the support required of it under the
proposed project, the fund's coverage would be expanded within an overall
limit of 10 times its capital. The actual capital limitation will be
established in consultation between the Bank, CB, CORFO and SERCOTEC, and
access to the expanded portion would be limited to financial intermediaries
participating under the proposed project and other multilateral credits
(i.e., IDB). Guarantees could be granted to enterprise with total assets
of not more than UF 15,000 (US$225,000 equivalent) for a max4mum sub-loan
amount of UF 5,000 (US$75,000 equivalent) or 50 percent of the sub-loan
amount, whichever is lower. Sub-loans of UF 1,500 (US$22,500) or less
could be guaranteed for up to 80 percent of the sub-loan amount. The
amount of the guarantee would be based on the amount of the loan not
covered by real guarantees provided by the beneficiary.
2.14.     The increased risk which the fund would be asked to incur, would
be largely compensated for by the detailed project evaluation and intensive
supervision required of financial intermediaries having access to the
fund. Intermediaries would have to demonstrate to SERCOTEC that they are
unable to obtain sufficient real guarantees from credit beneficiaries in
order to qualify for a guarantee from the fund. An annual fee not to
exceed 2% of the amount of the guarantee would be paid to the fund, and
would be charged to beneficiaries. The adequacy of the exposure-to-
capital ratio, of the fm d's capital and of the guarantee fee would be
reviewed as necessary by CB, CORFO, SERCOTEC and the Bank. A condition of
effectiveness would be that the fund is fully operational.



- 13 -
Risk Capital Coupment
2.15      A risk capital fund would be estahlished by CORFO for making
equity investments in SIRl. The creation or this fund would represent an
important initiative for helping SilI enterprises to mobilize the equity
they require to carry out new ventures or to expand production.  The
committee administering the risk capital fund would have the authority to
make loans as well to purchase shares; however, Bank financing would only
be granted for the purchase of shares and the items financed with the new
equity would be restricted to imported fixed assets and permanent working
capital. CORFO and the Bank would each contribute US$2 million (the latter
in the form of sub-loan financing) towards the fund's capital base. The
fund would make equity investments in carefully selected enterprises with
high potential for increasing output or productivity. The fund's total
investment would be limited to 40Z of any enterpv-ise's paid-in capital.  To
expedite disbursements under the fund, a special account would be
established at CB, to be used by CORFO to finance the Bank's portion of the
investments it makes under the risk capital fund. The Bank would make an
initial deposit of US$200,000. Disbursements from the special account
would be made for approved individual investments and the fund would be
replenished on the basis of actual disbursements made (pars. 2.06). The
maxlmum Bank individual investment would be the lower of US$100,000 or 20Z
of the paid-in capital of the enterprise. The fund's investments would be
for a limited duration, and its shareholdings would have to be sold within
an agreed-upon period following the date of acquisition.
2.16      Statutes for the fund have been approved by CORFO's board of
directors. As a condition of disbursement of the Bank's portion of the
fund, CORFO win have established the operating rules and regulations for
the fund, including the specific measures which CORFO will undertake to
divest itself of its share participation in the fund, and will make a
capital subscription of US$2 million equivalent to the fund, and pay-in a
minimum capital contribution to the fund of US$200,000. Payments by CORFO
to the fund would be made pari-passu with payments to be made by the Bank
under approved subloans.
laleuding Terms and Conditions
2.17      An overall limit on firms' eligibility would be established at a
value of US$750,000 for fixed assets both owned and leased, calculated on
the basis of an annual financial statement as of the mc.st recent fiscal
year preceeding the date on which the firm requested the loan, or in the
absence of annual financial statements, on quarterly interim statements
satisfactory to SERCOTEC. A maximum aggregate subloan amount for Bank
financing of US$500,000 to any single or related group of enterprises would
be established for investment financing, while a limit of US$200,000 would
be established for financing free-standing working capital and US$100,000
for equity investment. Sub-loan limits and appraisal requirements and
conditions applicable to subloans within these limits, would serve to
distinguish between artisan, small and medium-sized enterprises. Subloans



- 14 -
under a limit of US$16,0005/ would be directed exclusively to artisan
enterprises, and the Bank would delegate to SERCOTEC full responsibility
for appraisal, approval and supervision of these subprojects, according to
criteria established for PAEM. For subloans up to US$100,000, directed
towards non-artisan SSI, a technical-financial evaluation would be required
using a format focussing on key analytical variables (i.e., detailed cash
flow projections and analysis of market variables). For subloans between
US$100,000 and US$500,000, directed primarily to MSI, a full appraisal
would be required of the subproject's technical, financial, market and
economic aspects. Environmental impact and occupational safety
considerations should also be discussed. Subprojects dealing with equity
investment, the promotion of non-traditional manufactured exports and
technology improvement would require a full appraisal regardless of the
subloan amount. Subprojects requiring Bank financing of US$50,000 and
above would require a financial rate of return calculation, and those
receiving Bank financing of US$250,000 and above, would need to be
submitted to the Bank for approval and would require an economic rate of
return computation. Because the equity financing component is a pilot
program which will have to be closely monitored, the first four subprojects
involving equity investments would be sent to the Bank for approval, as
well as any additional subprojects requiring Bank financing of over
US$50,000.
2.18      CORFO would bear the foreign exchange risk on the loan, i.e., the
risk between the basket of currencies and the UF (see para. 1.12) and would
relend Bank funds to financial intermediaries at a rate of UF + 4-5%, which
is deemed adequate to compensate it for the costs and risks involved. The
credit risk would be borne by the financial intermediaries (i.e. either by
CtORFO or by participating banks). Subloans for fixed assets and associated
working capital (financed either through credit or equity investment) would
be for up to 10 years and 3 years of grace. Subloans for free-standing
working capital would be for up to 5 years and 1 year of grace, and for
export promotion and technology improvement for up to 5 years and 2 years
of grace. Based on the current market rates for medium- and and long-term
lending to industry, an interest rate of UF+8% would be charged on all
subloans to beneficiaries under the credit component. The adequacy of the
rate for new subloans would be reviewed not later than every six months by
CORFO, SERCOTEC and the Bank, and would be changed as necessary to ensure
that interest rates remain positive in real terms and consistent with
market conditions, and that intermediation fees remain sufficiently
attractive to ensure commercial bank financing of SMI. A 1% front-end fee
would also be charged on all credit operations by the financial
institution involved. The spread to commercial banks would be 3% in the
case of subloans above US$100,000 equivalent and 4% in the case of subloans
below this amount.
Technical Assistance and Training CoMpoMent
2.19      A major objective of the proposed project would be to upgrade the
capability of institutions participating under the project. US$2 million
5/   The limit which presently exists on SERCOTEC loans to firms which are
financed under its PAEM Program.



- 15 -
would be provided for this component for the purposes described below.
SERCOTEC would be responsible for implementing this component, and would
provide CORPO, not later than every October 31, with a budget allocation
which would ensure that SERCOTEC would be provided with the funds required
to carry out the subsequent year's program.
(i)   US$0.8 million for SERCOTEC, which would receive technical
assistance in (a) improving the planning and programming of
its activities, (b) establishing procedures for monitoring
and follow-up of subprojects, (c) evaluating the effec-
tiveness of the PAEM program, (d) evaluating the perfor-
mance of the guarantee fund, and exploring the possibility
of establishing a privately-owned guarantee fund, (e) dev-
eloping export promotion subprojects, and (f) helping
identify and implement technology improvements in client
enterprises. The latter two activities would be undertaken
jointly with SERCOTEC's program of direct assistance to
industrial enterprises. Selected equipment and vehicles
necessary for the proper functioning of SERCOTEC's tech-
nical assistance activities would also be financed.
(ii)   US$0.3 million for CORFO in initiating operations of the
risk capital fund. Studies would also be financed to
determine the feasibility of subsequently establishing
privately-owned small business investment companies as well
as the possibility of establishing a privately owned
venture capital fund with IFC participation.
(iii)   US$0.1 million for The Ministry of Economy's SMI Advisory
Unit to the Sub-Secretariat of Economy, which would receive
technical assistance in establishing policies and proce-
dures for monitoring the overall impact of the project.
(iv)   US$0.2 million for SERCOTEC/Financial Intermediaries for
training selected staff through seminars dealing with pro-
ject identification, preparation, evaluation, monitoring
and supervision.
(v)   US$0.6 million for Beneficiary firms for training in areas
critical to upgrading the performance of key management and
technical staff.
Responasibilities of Financial Inter-idiarles
2.20      Intermediaries would be required to sign participation agreements
with SERCOTEC, which would detail the intermediaries' resoonsibility to:
(i) appraise projects in accordance with the project credit manual;
(ii) supervise projects to ensure that resources had been used for the
purpose intended and that projects were progressing on schedule; (iii)
adhere to terms of lending and repayment of loans; (iv) ensure that
procurement and disbursement provisions are met; (v) maintain adequate
records on Bank-financed projects; and (vi) provide SERCOTEC with periodic
reports on subprojects financed and under study; (vii) select a project
coordinator responsible for working with SERCOTEC. Commercial banks need



- 16 -
additional trained staff to identify, prepare and appraise subprojects.
During the initial phase of project implementation consulting expertise
would be provided to coordinate and supervise this effort, and formal
training would begin as soon as possible thereafter. In addition, SERCOTEC
would meet monthly with representatives from SMI producer associations to
discuss implementation of the project.
2.21      Initially, subproject monitoring by intermediaries would focus on
follow-up at the enterprise level during the disbursemeat period to ensure
proper utilization of funds. Suborrowers should be visited frequently
during the implementation of the subproject (at least once every 6 months)
and a minimum of once a year thereafter. Financial intermediaries would
assume primary responsibility for monitoring and supervision of their
subprojects and SERCOTEC's own direct supervision would be planned to
support and monitor their efforts. Although intermediaries would work
closely with industrialists in the preparation of appraisals and
supervision of subprojects, and would bear the credit risk, SERCOTEC would
have the ultimate responsibility for ensuring the quality of appraisals and
effectiveness of supervision.
Procurement and Disbursement
2.22      The proceeds of the loan would finance the estimated foreign
exchange costs of imported machinery and equipment, materials, civil works
and services, as well as for reconditioned or used equipment procured
locally (only for SSI), whose condition, value and useful life has been
certified by an independent and fully qualified expert, to be selected from
a roster maintained by SERCOTEC. Consulting services for subprojects or
technical assistance for the project would be open to international
recruitment, to be selected in accordance with 'Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Baak Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981. For investment
subloans,(except for subloans under $16,000) 6/ participating
intermediaries would require comparative sbopping, (i.e., at least 3
quotatioas) and would satisfy themselves that procured items are suitable
for the respective subprojects and reasonably priced, and that the
beneficiaries are purchasing from the most advantageous source. In cases
where it may be difficult or too costly to obtain three quotations because
of the smallness of the order, this requirement could be waived if adequate
justification is provided. All subproject appraisals would include a
discussion of procurement procedures used, responses received, prices
quoted and criteria for selection of suppliers. It is not expected that any
single contract would exceed USS250,000.
2.23      Disbursements for investment subloans would be made for expendi-
tures incurred up to 180 days prior to the receipt by the Bank of the
particular subloan request, and are consistent with regional and bankwide
disbursement profiles of IDF lending. The final date for submission of
subproject proposals would be December 31, 1988, and the closing date for
disbursements would be June 30, 1991. For subloans under US$100,000,
6/   Setting the limit at this level would ensure that SSI financing, which
could be made available for purchasing used or reconditioned
equipments will be subject to a comparative shopping requirement.



- 17 -
disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure; for
subloans exceeding this amount, disbursement requests would need to be
fully documented.
Accounting and Auditing
2.24      Prior to 1984, SERCOTEC did not have an independent auditor, and
its accounts were audited by the Contraloria General de la Republics, as
part of CORPO's consolidated financial statements. However, for its 1984
annual audit, SERCOTEC has engaged the firm of Lsngston Clark, which is
associated with Coopers Lybrand to carry out an independent audit of its
accounts.
2.25      CB would maintain the special accounts in accordance with
accounting principles consistently applied and in a form satisfactory to
the Bank. An annual audit of both CORFO and SERCOTEC, to be carried out by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, would Include a balance
sheet, statement of income and expenses, a statement of sources and
application of funds, and the special accounts, as well as an opinion on
the quality of CORFO and SERCOTEC's auditing standards and procedures.
Supplementary data on project objectives, operations, quality of portfolio,
the scope and quality of work carried out by SERCOTEC and the financial
intermediaries, would also be provided. The annual audit report in a scope
and format satisfactory to the Bank, would be submitted to the Bank not
later than four months after the end of each fiscal year. In addition,
SERCOTEC would send the Bank quarterly reports on the project's financial
situation and operations.
C. Project Benefits and Risks
2.26      The proposed project would represent a significant step in help-
ing the Chilean government to address the problems faced by SKIs. It would
provide investment financing for many firms which have never had access to
the banking system. It would enable some firms to modernize their plant
facilities and become more efficient producers, and would assist other
firms to expand production. It would enable enterprises that have been
damaged in the recent earthquake to rebuild their production facilities.
The project wDuld also provide free-standing permanent working capital to
help SMIs make more effective use of their existing productive capacity.
It would also help potential exporters to find foreign markets and to
develop products which could meet the standards of foreign consumers. It
would assist other firms to Incorporate the benefits of advanced technology
into their production facilities. Successful implementation of these
actions should result in a significant expansion of industrial employment.
2.27      The proposed project would also have an important institution-
building impact on the institutional development of the financial system by
widening financial intermediation to SMIs, and by substantially
strengthening the capability of the executing agency, SERCOTEC, to: (i)
plan and program its activities; (ii) establish procedures for monitoring
and follow-up of the subprojects it would finance; (iii) evaluate the
results of the different programs it is carrying out; (iv) help put into
operation a risk capital fund; and (v) to develop the capability to help



- 18 -
clients who wish to find export markets or implement technology
improvements in their enterprises. In addition, the project would assist
in training the staff of financial intermediaries in project
identification, evaluation and supervision. Also, the project would assist
the Ministry of Economy to establish a system for monitoring the overall
impact of the government's program to assist SMIs.
2.28      As conceived, the proposed project does not involve any unusual
risks. The executing agency is experienced and has a staff that is capable
of carrying out the project. One potential risk is that any downturn in
the economy could have a significant effect on investor attitudes,
especially smaller entrepreneurs. In addition, the degree to which
commercial banks would participate under the project is also somewhat in
doubt, given the innovative aspect of SMI lending for the banking system as
a whole. As a substantial part of the loan is expected to be channelled
through CORFO, a failure of commercial banks to participate to the degree
anticipated, should not seriously affect utilization of the loan.
IUl.  AGDERCONTS AND
3.01       During negotiations agreement was reached with the government on:
(i)  the respective responsibilities of CORFO and SERCOTEC under
the project;
(ii) the amount, allocations, terms and conditions of the
proposed loan (paras. 2.05, 2.12-2.19);
(iii) the establishment of two special accounts and the amounts of
the initial deposit (para. 2.06);
(iv) retroactive financing to cover the period between August 1,
1985 and the date of loan signing (para 2.05);
(v) standards of loan appraisal for subloans under US$16,000,
between US$16,000 and US$100,000, over US$100,000 and over
US$250,000 (para. 2.17);
(vi) the content of the Statement of Operating Policies and
Procedures and Credit Manual (para. 2.09); and
(vii) a procedure for reviewing the adequacy of re-lending rates
to suborrowers (para. 2.18).
3.02       Prior to loan effectiveness:
(i) a guarantee fund, whose structure, coverage and procedures
would be satisfactory to the Bank, would need to be fully
operational (para. 2.14);



- 19 -
(il) CORFO and SERCOTEC would adopt a Statement of Operating
Policies and Procedures and a Credit Manual satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 2.09);
3.03      Prior to disbursement for the risk capital fund component:
(i) a risk capital fund, established by CORFO, would be fully
operational; and the government would have subscribed its
equity contribution of US$2 million equivalent and paid-in
an amount of US$200,000 equivalent (para. 2.16).
3.04      The proposed loan constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$40 million to CORFO on the terms and conditions outlined in Chapter II.
July 16, 1985



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
SERVICIO DE COOPERACION TECNICA (SERCOTEC)
STATEMENT OF OPERATING POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
A. Policies
1.        SERCOTEC's objective shall be to promote the development of small
and medium scale industry (SNI), especially those enterprises that generate
foreign exchange, create new jobs, and increase the use of Chile's natural
resources.
2.        In order to accomplish those objectives, SERCOTEC shall:
(a) operate separately or through financial intermediary
institutions to finance (i) well-designed projects for the
creation, expansion, restructuring or reconstruction of
production capacity of SMI; and (ii) production inputs
required by SKI wishing to increase utilization of existing
capacity.
(b) ensure that SNls in general, and in particular
non-traditional exporters and firms willing to utilize more
advanced technology, are given the access to credit and to
the technical assistance they tequire for proper project
preparation and implementation;
(c) encourage financial intermediary institutions to assist
borrowers in preparing their projects and to develop their
own capabilities for project appraisal and supervision.
3.        SERCOTEC shall make use of its resources under the project for
the following purposes:
(a) to grant loans for to finance: (i) fixed assets such as
machinery and equipment, installation costs, and related
buildings and civil engineering works; (ii) permanent
incremental working capital needs for related investment
subprojects as well as free-standing permanent working
capital;
(b)  to grant loans for the promotion of exports and for the
application of new technology, as well as to finance the
technical assistance costs associated with these kinds of
loans.



- 21 -
ANlEX 1
Page 2 of 5
4.        The approved limit on the financing of each subproject shall be
cumulative, taking into account the outstanding balance of previous loans to
the enterprise, or to any subsidiary enterprise.
5.        Investment subloans shall be expressed in Unidad de Fomento (UF),
and the rate of interest charged shall be that rate agreed upon between the
Bank and the Borrower.
6.        Projects for which credit financing is sought shall be judged on
the following criteria: (i) technical, economic and financial viability;
(ii) generation of foreign exchange; (iii) generation of value added;
(iv) use of domestic raw materials, goods and services; (v) employment
generation; (vi) environmental impact and occupational safety considerations;
and (vii) other relevant factors, depending on the nature of the particular
project. For projects which shall require financing by SERCOTEC in excess of
US$250,000 equivalent, their evaluation shall include a calculation of the
economic rate of return for the project.
7.        SERCOTEC shall employ sufficient staff to attend to the activities
of project preparation, promotion, appraisal and supervision. Its principal
resources shall consist of funds allocated to it by CORFO from the proceeds
of loan agreements entered into with national and international financial
institutions, its own earnings, and funds coming to it from any other source.
8.        SERCOTEC shall encourage participation by as many intermediary
institutions as possible, avoiding a concentration of financing through any
single one of them. In order to be accepted as a participating financial
Intermediary, a financial institution must be certified by the
Superintendency of Banks, properly equipped to appraise and supervise
long-term loans, sign a contract establishing the conditions of participation
and corresponding obligations, and meet any other requirements prescribed by
SERCOTEC.
9.        Maturity periods on loans granted by SERCOTEC shall be established
on the basis of cash flow projections of each subproject and enterprise, and
on the type of asset to be financed.
10.       Financial intermediary institutions shall make financing available
to sub-borrowers on the terms and conditions established under the project,
except for the interest rate on their own counterpart funds, which shall be
the rates prevailing in the financial market.
11.       Loans made available to intermediary institutions for the financing
of subprojects shall be subject to the following conditions:
(a) they may be granted only to financial intermediaries operating
in accordance with the laws of Chile;
(b) the financial intermediary must ensure that the borrower will
have access to sufficient funds to complete its financial
plan, including the financing of its working capital needs;



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
(c) the financial intermediary shall, to the extent possible, help
applicants to prepare their studies of technical, financial,
and market aspects of their subprojects in an acceptable form
that will facilitate appraisal; as well as conduct the
subproject appraisal and supervision as established by
SERCOTEC;
(d) the financial intermediaries shall repay their loans from
SERCOTEC punctually, even if they have not been reimbursed by
their sub-borrowers; they shall also pass oa to SERCOTEC any
repayments received in advance from sub-borrowers;
(e) financial intermediaries and beneficiaries shall comply with
all such terms, conditions, and requirements as may be
established by SERCOTEC.
12.       SERCOTEC shall only finance projects for which alternative
financing on reasonable terms is not available from other sources.
13.       SERCOTEC shall maintain separate accounts and keep proper records
of its operations, which shall be duly audited; it shall also set up a
system for retrieval of information on its activities.
14.       SERCOTEC shall conduct periodic reviews of the results of its
operations, the participation by financial intermediary institutions and the
results achieved by subprojects financed, then shall make recommendations
for, or itself carry out, whatever adjustments it deems necessary for the
accomplishment of its appointed objectives.
B. Procedures
BENEFICIARIES
ARTICLE 1:
Individuals or corporate bod'-es meeting the following requirements
may be beneficiaries:
those establishing a new enterprise or expanding or
restructuring existing production capacity, and with the
managerial, technical, and financial capacity to implement
their projects efficiently.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS AFFECTING OPERATIONS
ARTICLE 2: Within the limits enunciated, the following provisions shall
apply:



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
(a) The Bank may finance up to 60% of the total cost of each
subproject (excluding land and including the assets to be
financed). SERCOTEC and the Bank together may finance up to
65% of total subproject cost of a new investment enterprise,
or up to 80Z when an existing enterprise is being expanded;
intermediary financial institutions shAll contribute not less
than 1OZ of the total cost from their own resources, while the
sub-borrower shall meet the remainder of project costs, but
not less than 10% of the total cost of the expansion or
modernization of an existing enterprise, or 25% of the total
cost of a new enterprise;
(b) SERCOTEC shall not provide financing: (i) to cover existing
debts or debts to third parties; (ii) for the rental or
purchase of land or commercial buildings; (iii) for the
purchase of securities; (iv) for the payment of dividends or
recovery of investment capital; (v) for used goods, except
when appraised by an independent expert, selected from an
approved list of such experts in the case of subloans up to
US$100,000; or (vi) to pay taxes or other fiscal liabilities
of beneficiaries;
Cc)  SMIs are those firms having total assets, including the assets
to be financed under the proposed subproject, of less than the
equivalent in pesos of US$750,000, as of December 31, 1984;
and
(d) for technical assistance subprojects, SERCOTEC shall follow
the following procedures: (i) prepare rerms of reference and
a subproject document satisfactory to the Bank indicating the
objectives of the assistance proposed, including a detailed
work plan and implementation schedule for carrying out these
objectives and indicating the functions to be carried out by
consultants to be financed under the subproject; (ii) select
consultants in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, indicating the number of proposals received, the
proposal selected and reasons for its selection.
INTEREST RATES, SPREADS AND COMKISSIONS
ARTICLE 3: The interest rate payable by loan beneficiaries on funds provided
by SERCOTEC or financial intermediaries shal be UF+8Z, and all beneficiaries
will also be charged a 1% front-end fee. The adequacy of this rate will be
reviewed six months after loan effectiveness and every six months thereafter.
Participating banks themselves shall set the rate payable on funds lent
directly from their own resources, within the limits laid down by the Central
Bank.
ARTICLE 4: Spreads for financial intermediaries shall be 4% for subloans
below US$100,000 and 3% for subloans between USS 100,001 and USS500,000.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
ARTICLE 5: Financial intermediaries shall pay a commitment charge at the
rate of 0.75% per annum on the principal amount of the subloan not withdrawn
from time to tire. Such commitment charge shall accrue from the date of the
loan agreement between SERCOTEC and the financial intermediary. The
commitment charge is transferable to che subborrowers.
MATURITY PERIODS
ARTICLE 6: (a) The maximum loan repayment period shall be determined in each
case by the participating intermediaries and SERCOTEC (a) for
fixed assets and associated working capital (financed either
through credit or equity investment) up to 10 years and 3
years of grace; (b) for free-standing working capital up to 5
years and 1 year of grace; (c) for export promotion and
technology development up to 5 years and 2 years of grace.
(b) Repayment may be scheduled on a monthly, quarterly or
semi-annual basis by the financial intermediary, in
accordance with the nature of the particular subproject.
PROCESSING OF LOAN APPLICATIONS
ARTICLE 7: A subprojfct shall be appraised either by SERCOTEC or the
participating intermediary in accordance with the Credit Manual issued by
S-ERCOTEC. Appraisal reports prepared by intermediaries shall be forwarded to
SERCOTEC, which shall analyze them and recommend appropriate action to the
Credit Committee, which will have the responsibility for approving
disapproving all subprojects. If the funding to be made available by the
World Bank is over US$250,000 or its equivalent in pesos, the Credit
Committee's decision must be ratified by the World Bank, and the subproject's
economic rate of return must be determined.
ARTICLE 8: Once a loan application from an intermediary has been approved,
notification shall be sent to the intermediary, accompanied by a statement as
to the amount and terms and conditions of the subloan that will be granted.
After receipt of notification of approval, the participating intermediary
shall provide SERCOTEC with a copy of the loan contract entered into with the
beneficiary.
ARTICLE 9: Requests for disbursement shall be accompanied by the
documentation specified in the Credit Manual as required as evidence of
purchase or intent to purchase the goods and services being financed.
ARTICLE 10:  These Regulations shall come into effect on



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CREDIT MANUAL: CRITERIA FOR EVALUATING INVESTMENT SUBPROJECTS
(Spanish version)
I. El PROYECTO: RESUMEN, CONCLUSIONES Y RECOMENDACIONES
A. Resumen y Conclusiones
1. a) Breve descripcion y proposito;
b) patrocinadores del proyecto (la empresa y sus accionistas);
c) factibilidad tecnica y comercial;
d) plan financiero, indicando (i) el costa detallado de las
inversiones necesarias en moneda extranjera y moneda local; y (ii)
cada fuente de financiacion para cada bien o servicio que sea
financiado;
e) evaluacion financiera;
f) evaluacion economica.
B. Recomendaciones
1. Condiciones a ser incluidas en los documentos legales;
2. recomendaciones y justificaciones para cualquier arreglo especial
antes:
- de la firma del contrato
- del inicio de los desombolsos.
11. IA EMPRESA: ANTECEDENTES Y ACCIONISTAS
1. Descripcion de la empresa y del promotor
a) Nombre, naturaleza y evolucion, fecha y lugar de la
constitucion de la empresa; una resena historica de la misma;
y lineas de produccion actuales;



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
b)  informacion sobre los propietarios, accionistas y promotores;
capitalizacion y control de la empresa; principales accio-
nistas y participacion de inversionistas extranjeros;
c)  experiencia previa de la empresa y los accionistas con
SERCOTEC, incluyendo los diferentes creditos otorgados,
historia de recuperaciones, prestamos en mora, y el saldo;
b)  informacion sobre ctras empresas afiliadas a la solicitante
del credito, incluyeado la participacion de cada empresa
afiliada en la capitalizacion de la solicitante.
III. LA EMPRESA: ADMINISTRACION Y ORGAIIZACION
1. Miembros del Directorio de la Empresa
a) Nombres y calificaciones pertinentes, experiencias y
representacion;
b) descripcion de responsabilidades.
2. Organizacion
a) Organigraza de la empresa, especificando la estructura de la
organizacion, numero de empleados por cada unidad de la
organizacion y las distintas categorias de empleados;
b) canales de comunicacion dentro y entre unidades organizacionales;
delegacion de responsibilidades;
c) sistemas de control interno (personal, productividad, inventario,
contabilidad de costos, etc.);
d) sistema de toma de decisiones en cada nivel de responsibilidad;
e) sistema de planeamiento, programacion y presupuesto.
3. Relaciones de trabajo
a) Aplicacion y efectos de las legislaciones laborales, practicas
gremiales;
b) escalas de salarios, seguridad social, sistema de incentivos,
-tros beneficios.
IV. LA EMPRESA: OPERACIONES
1.  Sistema de Produccion
a) descripcion del sistema de produccion actual;
b) ampliaciones recientes, diversificaciones, adquisiciones y
consolidaciones de produccion;



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
c) volumen anual de produccion por principales lineas de productos -
de ser posible los ultimos cinco anos;
d) utilizacion de la capacidad de produccion;
2. Sistema de Ventas
a) Volumen anual de ventas por principales lineas de productos - de
ser posible los ultimos cinco anos;
b) el porcentaje de mercado cubierto por la empresa para cada pro-
ducto y las principales empresas competidoras; en el caso de
exportaciones especificar todos los demas factores (i.e. calidad,
presentacion, transporte, tarifas, distribuciones, etc.) que
afectan la capacidad de la empresa de competir en cada mercado
extranjero;
c) sistema de mercadeo.
V. LA EMPRESA: SITUACION FINANCIERA
1. Analisis financiero de ser posible de los ultimos cinco anos
a) balances;
b) perdidas y ganancias;
c) fuentes y usas de fondos;
d) indices financieros y tendencias;
e) analisis de la solidez financiera y rentabilidad de la empresa.
2. Auditoria externa
a) nombre y experiencia del auditor externo;
b) conclusiones, recomendaciones, comentarios y opiniones del
auditor.
VI. LA EMPRESA: CONCLUSIONES SOBRE FORTALEZAS Y DEBILIDADES
VII. EL PROYECTO: PROPOSITO E INVERSIONES PROPUESTAS
1. ProposYto del proyecto y diseno
a) descripcion del proyecto y su proposito;
b) existencia de procesos de produccion alternativos y su eficiencia
relativa;
c) justificacion de procesos seleccionados.



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
2. La Inversion Propuesta
a) Lista de las principales maquinarias requeridas y sus
especificaciones, capacidad instalada, numero de turnos, dias de
operaciones por mes y por ano;
b) disponsibilidad de maquinaria (locales, importaciones), tiempo de
envio del fabricante, servicio y suministro de repuestos;
c) base para seleccion entre por lo menos tres proveedores (excepto
en casos cuando sea relativamente dificil o costoso de obtenerlo),
incluyendo precios, calidad, escala de la planta, compatibilidad
de nuevos equipos con los medios existentes y futuras
ampliaciones, etc.;
d) justificacion de la ubicacion elegida para la planta (adquirida o
rentada), disponsibilidad de terreno para ampliaciones futuras,
acceso al mercado y medios de transporte;
e) equipo para el control de la contaminacion y otros efectos
nocivos;
f) servicios necesarios de combustible, agua, alcantarillado, energia
electrica, telefono;
g) obras civiles, incluyendo edificaciones, pequenas construciones,
vias de acceso, etc.
h) necesidades de capital de trabajo y su justificacion.
VIII.  EL PROYECTO:  ASPECTOS TECNICOS
A. Materias Primas y Productos
1.  Principales Materias Primas
a) Fuentes, suministros, disponibilidad (presente, futuros) y
variacion en las estaciones; necesidades de transporte y de
almacenamiento.
b) calidad indicando si son perecederas, tendencias de los precios,
dependencia de las importaciones, impuestos sobre importaciones,
requerimientos de cambios de moneda extranjera y disponibilidad;
c) concesiones; contratos actuales, creditos comerciales.
2. Productos
a) Especificaciones (calidad, tamano, peso, volumen, empaque, etc.);
conveniencia o aplicabilidad a las condiciones del mercado;



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
b) por cada lines de producto, volumen de produccion y valor,
factores de temporada quo afectan la produccion, y produccion
diaria, mensual y anual.
c) utilizacion de capacidad instalada.
d) medios de control de calidad y standards de pruebas (factor de
desperdicios).
3. Mano de Obra
a) Disponibilidad y calidad de mano de obra, numero de obreros
requeridos en cada etapa de produccion;
b) requerimentos de entrenamiento, programas y medios (locales,
exteriores);
c) supervision de trabajo; necesidad de asistencia tecnica o
instruccion (temporal o permanente);
d) impacto del proyecto sobre el nivel de ocupacion nacional escala
de sueldos;
4.  Plan de Implementacion
a) Responsabilidades de la ejecucion del proyecto: nombres,
definiciones y division de responsabilidades;
b) construccion y fecha de inicio, demoras;
c) calendarizacion de las inversiones; desarrollo de produccion
(volumen, calidad, lineas);
d) programa de mantenimiento y disponibilidad de repuestos.
5. Asistencia Tecoica
a) Arreglos con los consultores (nombres, experiencia, descripcion de
servicios, duracion del contrato, previsiones de penalidades y
garantias, etc.);
b) acceso a la tecnologia e investigacion, innovaciones tecnicas,
patentes, licencias, registros;
6. Compras de Bienes y Servicios
a) Discussion de los procedimientos de compra que van a ser
utilizados;
b) justificacion de cada compra en terminos de compatibilidad,
calidad y precios;



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 9
c) analisis de las cotizaciones de proveedores pDtenciales,
incluyendo la propuesta de cada proveedor, los precios indicados y
los criterios de seleccion utilizados.
IX. EL PROYECTO: EL MERCADO
1. Entorno Eupresarial
a) Importancia estrategica del proyecto para el pais; relacion al
plan de desarrollo del gobierno;
b) licencias para operar, permisos de importacion para negociar en
moneda extranjera, para hacer contratos con el exterior, para
establecer operaciones exteriores o recibir participacion inter-
nacional, garantia de franquicia, privilegios;
c) participacion directa o indirecta en el proyecto; papel como
cliente, suministrador, competidor o proprietario; participacion
en la junta directiva de la empresa;
d) distribucion de ganancias y repatriacion de capital;
e) control de precio y ganancias;
f) incentivos o subsidios fiscales aplicables al proyecto (libera-
ciones de impuestos, tarifas protectoras, cuotas o subsidios de
importacion o exportacion, reintegracion de impuestos, deprecia-
cion acelerada, impuestos sobre revaluacion del activo, etc.);
2. Precios
a) Precio de fabrica por linea de produccion y el precio del mismo
producto importado (c.i.f.), indicando variaciones temporales y
regionales; tendencia, fabricas afectadas y estimaciones de
precios futuros.
3. Demanda
a) Desarrollo historico de la demanda interna y/o externa durante los
ultimos cinco anos;
b) bases y estimaciones de demanda interna y/o externa durante los
proximos cinco anos.
4. Oferta
a) Produccion local o importada por linea de produccion durante los
ultimos cinco anos;
b) nombres de competidores, su capacidad y su utilizacion de
capacidad por fabricas existentes;



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
c) naturaleza y grado de competencia (estructura de costo, precio,
calidad, productos o servicios); posibilidades de fusiones;
d) bases y estimaciones de oferta interna y/o externa durante los
proximos cinco anos.
5. Plan de Mercadeo
a) Contratos para ventas (internas y/o exportaciones);
b) promocion, propaganda (agencia, de publicidad), presupuesto;
c) politica crediticia hacia el cliente;
d) experiencia de mercadeo del vendedor por producto.
e) sector de mercado.
X.  EL PROYECTO:  PLAN DE INVERSION Y SU FINANCIAMIENTO
1. Costo Total del Proyecto en Moneda Local y Extranjera
a) Inversiones fijas (terreno, lugar de desarrollo, caminos,
edificios, construccion de la planta, maquinaria y equipo, gastos
anticipados, imprevistos); fechas de adquicisiones, vida util de
las maquinarias, precio CIF, recargos de descarga, obligaciones y
tasas de cambio, costos de instalacion;
b) requerimientos de capital operativo, variaciones de temporada o
ciclo;
c) gastos de formalizacion de prestamos;
d) programa de inversion (cronograma de ejecucion de obras);
e) costos incurridos hasta la fecha de presentacion de la solicitud;
f) bases de las estimaciones de costo incluyendo imprevistos.
2. Fuente Financiacion del Proyecto
a) Proposito, moneda y forma de utilizacion, linea de credito
afectada;
b) terminos y condiciones de financiamiento; programa de compromisos,
desembolsos y repagos; garantias ofrecidas;
c) condiciones y convenios de financiamiento (restricciones para
contratar nuevas deudas o avales, distribucion de dividendos,
etc.);



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
d) participacion de fondos generados internamente; contribucion de
los accionistas; creditos comerciales; proveedores.
XI. EL PROYECTO: EVALUACION FINANCIERA PARA EL PERIODO DE VIDA UTIL DEL
PROYECTO
1. Costos de Operacion y Ganancias
a) Costos fijos y variables;
b) costo unitario por productos;
c) punto de equilibrio como porcentaje de utilizacion de capacidad;
d) ganancia de operacion y ganancia por linea de produccion.
2. Estados Financieros para Cada Ano Fiscal
a) Estados de ingresos;
b) estados del flujo de caja;
c) balances.
3. Indices Financieros (analizando tendencias)
a) Relacion de liquidez
-   relacion corriente
-   relacion acida
-   cobertura del servicio de la deuda
b) relacion de ganancias
-   margen de ganancias (ganancia bruta/ventas);
-   ganancia neta/activos totales;
-   relacion de habilidad de ganancia (ganancia neta/capital
proprio);
c) relacion de solvencia
-   capital pagado/deuda a largo plazo
-   capital pagado/deuda total
4. Rendimiento Financiero
a) Tasa interna de retorno (financiera);
b) analisis de sensibilidad, riesgos e incertidumbres, influenc'a de
factores variables sobre el rendimiento de inversiones;
c) rendimiento para los inversionistas, estimando distribuciones de
los dividendos; y ganancias por accion.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
XII.   EL PROYECTO:  EVALUACION ECONOMICA Y SOCIAL
1. Anlisia Costo-Bensficio
a) Divisas ganadas ylo ahorradas como resultado del proyecto;
b) tasa economica de retorno;
c) riesgos e izpacto de cambios en ld preclo. sobre el rendiulento
economico.
2. Otros Efectos
a) Efecton sobre el crecimiento y progravA de desarrollo del pain
(balanza de pagos, substitucion de importaciones, etc.);
b) utilizacion de capacidad productive ociosa, apertura de nuevos
ercados, transferencia de Is tecuologia, estimulo para nuevas
industrias, etc.;
c) entrensmiento de trabajadores y mejorsmiento de la aduinistracion;
aumento del nivel educativo de la poblacion local; mejoramiento de
salud, condiciones de nutricion y vivienda;
d) generacion de empleos directos e indirectos.
3. Efectos Ecologicos
a) Regulaciones para prevencion de incendio, explosion, ruido,
radiacion, etc.;
b) nedidas contra efluentes y basuras; solidos, liqutdos, o vapo-res y
gases toxicos, disposicion de subproductos, problesas e
investigaciones recomendadas, regulaciones locales.
XIII. PROYECTOS DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA 1/
a) Terminos de referencia para cada subproyecto do asistencia
tecnica, incluyendo objetivos, metas, trabajos de consultores po:
realizarse y plan de trabajo.
b) Proceso de licitacion incluyendo por lo menos tres invitados con
un plazo no uayor de 30 dias para responder.
c) Preparacion de propuestas incluyendo trabajc que va realizar cads
consultor, numero de dias hombre y desgloce total de todos los
costos incluidos en el costo final.
d) Analisis de propuestas, comparando cada oferta, y indicando razon
por la cual se hizo una seleccion.
e) aprobacion del Banco Mundial de dicha seleccion.
1/ La seleccion de Consultores estaria de acuerdo con las Pautas del Banco
Mundial para Seleccion de Consultores.



- 34 -AEN  3
Page 1 of 1
CH112
SMAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMAIJ AND MeDIUK IN=SRY PROJECr
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF D             1/
IMRD Fiscal Year/Quarter             Disburseient (USS millions)
By Quarter          Cumulative
FT 1986
September 30                          -
December 31                           1.0                   1.0
March 31                              1.5                   2.5
Jume 30                               2.5                   5.0
FY 1987
September 30                          2.0                  7.0
December 31                           2.0                   9.0
March 31                              2.5                  13.5
Jume 30                               3.5                  15.0
FY 1988
September 30                          4.0                  19.0
December 31                           4.5                 23.5
March 31                              3.5                  27.0
June 30 2/                            2.5                 29.5
EY 1989
September 30                          1.5                 31.0
December 31                           1.5                  32.5
March 31                              1.0                  33.5
June 30                               1.0                  37.5
FT 1990
September 30                          1.0                 35.5
December 31                           0.8                 36.3
March 31                              0.7                  37.0
June 30                               0.5                  37.5
FT 1991
September 30                          0.8                 38.3
December 31                           0.7                  39.0
March 31                              0.5                  39.5
June 30 3/                            0.5                  40.0
1/   Estimated disbursements would substantially conform to regional and
bankwide profiles for the IDF sector.
2/   Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
31   Closing date for disbursements.
LCPI2
April 1985



- 35 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAIABLLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Programs Trienal 1984-86. Republica de Chile.
2.  Proyecto Integral de Apoyo a la Mediana y Pequena Industria, 2 vols.
SERCOTEC. 1984.
3.  Orientaciones para el Apoyo a la Pequena y Mediana Empresa a Nivel
Sectorial v Regional. SERCOTEC. 1984.
4.  Annual Report SERCOTEC.  1982 and 1983.
5.  Programa de Creditos MEPI. SERCOTEC. September 20, 1984.
6.  Annual Report. CORFO. 1982 and 1983.
7.   Infor-az_ion Financiera.  Superintendencia de Bancos. October 1984.
8.  Encuesta Sobre Las Pequenas y Medianas Industrias. UNIDO.  1980.
9.  La Pequena y Nediana Industria Chilena, Hubert Sainmont.  1979.
10. Leyes y Decreros que Rigen la Corporacion de Fomento de la Producion
de Chile. CORFO.
11. Indicadores Economicos y Sociales 1960-82. Banco Central de Chile.
1983.
12. Technical Assistance and Training Component. Draft Terms of Reference
and Schedule of Implementation.



- 36 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SERVICIO DE COOPERACION TECNICA
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A.   SERCOTEC would prepare the following information:
1.  Economic indicators (annually):
(a)   Incremental jobs and cost per job generated
(b)   Indirect employment impact
(c)   Total and incremental output
(d)   Direct and indirect exports generated
(e)   Subproject location by number of enterprises, employment and
output
(f)   Expansion or new subprojects
(g)   Enterprise size by production capacity and actual output
(h)   Enterprise classification (CIIU) by production capacity and
actual output.
2.   Lending indicators (semi-annually):
Ca)   Number of subprojects/other operations financed; indicating
total investment and financing by Bank, Government,
participating institutions, and beneficiaries.
Cb)  Number of suibprojects/operations financed and total
investment, classified bv investment item (machinery and
equipment, construction and civil works, permanent working
capital, etc.), by size of subloan, and by type of product.
(c)   Subprojects' status (i.e. are objectives being achieved).
(d)   Level of subloan approvals, commitments and disbursements.
3.   Technical Assistance (semi-annually):
(a)   For each sub-component review status of (i) consultants
terms of reference, (ii) consultants selection process;
(iii) preparation of detailed work program; (iv) initiation
of assistance and progress made.
4.   Training assistance (semi-annually):
(a)   Number and content of training courses, and students
matriculated.
(b)   Number of enterprises visited and type of training provided.
5.   Evaluation:
(a)   Assessment on status of project implementation and
recommended action



- 37 -                                 ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
B.  For monitoring purposes the following Indicators apply:
FY 1986   FY 1987   FY 1988   FY 1989   F! 1990
1.   Utilization of Loan
(a)  Loan commitments*    25%        60%      100o         -         _
(b)  Loan disbursements*  13%        38%       74Z        86%       94%
(c) Number of 5MI's
financed*l/           244       493     1,388      1,613     1,763
2.   Operating Resutls:
(a)  Jobs created*2/       653     1,900     3,700      4,300     4,700
(b) Incremental exports
(in US$ million
equivalent)          -         3.0       5.0        10.0       -
3.   Institution building:
(a) Number of enter-
prises, assisted*     35         75       120        165
(b) Number of staff
trained 3/           200        400       625        850
* Cumulative
1/     Based on an estimated average total subproject cost of US$40,000
_I'    Based on an estimated average investment cost per job created of
3      Us$15,000
3,     Based on estimated average staff of 5 per enterprise + 25 from
financial intermediaries



STAW AIPPR AL 5O101
SNALL AND EKDIUN SCALE MNDUSTU PWOJCT
Table Il Structure of CDP and Manufacturing
(and Structural Change within Manufacturing)
1967/68         1970/71          1976/77           1982/83
I.  Agriculture Forestry & Fishing                                10.3             7.5              9.8               9.4
i1,  Mining                                                        9.7              7.3              8.4               9.0
III.  Manufacturing                                                 25.0            25.0             21.9              19.5
IV.  Construction                                                   4.6             5.6             _r2                5,1
V.  Infrastructure 1/                                              6.0             7.3              7.6              '8.0
VI.  Commerce                                                      20.6            18.3              14.7             17.6
VII.  Services                                                      23.8            29.0              33.4             31.4
1967            1977             1979              1983
III.  Manufacturing                                               100.0            100.0            100.0             100.0
A.  Resource-based export industries                         56.2            66,1              74,7             82.4
Food, beverages, tobacco                                 17.9            21.3             33.6              39,5
Wood products, paper & pulp                              10.7            12.6              13.8 &           1S.8
Nonmetallic minerals, basic metal &'products             16.8            17.5              11.1             10.9
Chemicals, rubber, and petroleum daeivativeu             10,8        .-  14.7              16.2             16,2
B.  Import substitutJon industries                           38.2            29.4              24.2             15.9
Textiles, clothing, shoe.                                22.9            16.4             TiY[              7.1
Machinery, equipment and transportation                  15.3            13.0              13.8              8.8
C.  Other Industries                                          5.6             4.5               1.1               1.7
1/ Industries: electricity, gas, water, transportation and communications
Sourcet Banco Central de Chile, Depto. Cuenta Nacionales
For subsector data:  IBRD, Report #28Y1b-CH, p. 5



-39-                               ANNE 6
STAFF APPRIASAL IEPORT
SMALL AMD ED   SCALE IDUSTIY PRcJEr
Table 2: Employment Levels and Growth
Year                    Total  Industnr   Agriculture   Commerce   Services
Etmloyment (1000)
1970                    2,766      492          625         335         778
1980                    3,257      524          535         475       1,029
1982                    2,825      357          459         489       1,188
1984 e/                 3,136      440         n.a.         n.a.       a.s.
Percent Participation
1970                      100      17.8         22.6        12.1        28.1
1980                      100      16.1         16.4        14.6        31.6
1982                      100      12.6         16.2        17.3        42.1
1984 e/                   100 -   14.0           n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Average Annual Growth
1965-1970                 1.7       2.1        -2.0          1.7         4.2
1975-1980                 3.4       2.6         0.6          7.6         4.1
1977-1982                 1.8      -5.5        -2.5          4.1         3.8
1982-1984 e/              5.3       8.5         U.a.         n.a.        n.a.
e/ - estimted
Source: Banco Central de Chile, Indicadores de Economia and IBRD Report $



CHILE
5WNF NMOISa 31160
1I.Il 11611   C II KU KALE NltUr   10EEI1
Table 3:  Indicators of Small, Medium and Large Industry
11117-1911
......................................................................................................................................... -*... .. ..................................................... ... ..................._ 
195?       C          1941       5            5919       1             5913       t             195154    1647-79  HM79O1
kuti Iate.
.................................................................................................................................................................
EitaIIh&uAtO 13                                                                                                       . 
ktluem *2325                                                     39.1        III       44.6          4549      41.6           3900      40.3             120.1       13.9      46.0
**SullI                                                2714      41,4        5054       44.1         4124      45.9           4515      4.1 2.2    -10.5                      -0.2
*IhdIu.                                                   3M        61.         649        5.7          as        6.9            679       l.0              6.3         5.2      -0.6
367       1.,         647       5.1           64        6.1            531       1.0              1.3       -6.3      -3.1
101kA                                                  5sA        10.0        1141      10.0           9962      00,0           9i71     100.0              95.1    -13.1        -2.1
.....                .....                      ... .....                              .           .. .....    ............ ............. ........ _
fElerml s   o
--irline                                               15.19        7,0       26 .3       7.5         26.31        .           23.40       7.4              73.7      -1.4    -go.o
*--all                                                s53.9        25,3       95.41      26.4         90.10      27.4          91. 2      23.1                7.2     -3.0        0.6
-- Iladlg                                              US210       12.1       44.12       12.7        46.17      I.t           46.21      14.6              10.0        3.2       0.1
*--Lu;                                                119.23       55.0      1U.1l       53,4        173.25      51.5         156.52      49.3              51.4      -3.3      *9.7
forlM                                                 216.61      200.0      353.40     500,0        336.1;    100.0          317.39    10.0                63.1       -4.9      -S.6
.......               .... ...                ...... .                 .......                        .. .... . ...           .....  
Production (Iinml.EIae2.
-klolias                                              23..        3.3       739.3        3.7       9691.4       2.1        21379.        2.0
*-S.aul                                               130.9       20.9      4244.2      20.0       44410.9      14.0      550503.0       13.i
*-g*111. 72.1                                                     11.5      2389.3       11.3      55022.3      12.4       13136.I       11.9
* -Large                                             405.0       Mg.9     137U3.       65,0    3303425  1       2 71.9   3I39.0         72.5
IOTl                                                   627.3      100.0    2120.6    100.0    4595121.6    i00,b          110517.1        00.0               0.0   *  0.0         o.e
.............  .    .........              .........       .     ...... ..........
lAS.dded II21    ..
-AIktus                                              70.0 M        3.3      4622.7       3.0        2172.3       1.1         211n9,       1.3             131.1    -3S.7        -6.1
*-SalI                                             o1410.0        11.6    21144.1        11.4       9646.1      12.2        194.4        12J              154.2    -271,       -0.2
--NeJll.                                              4346.0       10.4    1731001        11.1      11146        25.3       l11135        12.1             114.6       9.1      -0.7
lar                                                 lUo4110.0    63.7   104619.1       1U.5      119629.3      14.2.    114011.1        11.4             155.3       12.2      -4.6
[DIAL                                                66o .0       100.0   155 .16.    100.0    16233.4          0o.0        555343.6    100.0              156,7       3.6       -3.5
............ ....... .................  . ..........    .      .... ...........                 ......  .......    ..... ... ..
alvr foectlvlity 2./
-hOilus                                               131.7         47  1     ll.2         40        114.3        i4          l19.?        24            I51.6    -34.3          4.3
--ill                                                  191.1        a        290.4          6        216.6        45,         214.1        44              52.0    -25.4        -04.
-*11,42.                                              lit.5         16       in. 9         so        411.2        36          06.4         3s              61.5       6.3      -0.1
-Large                                                349.         1225       64.6        1221       690.5       144  '        2,         149              61.5       22.3       5.5
lIW                                                    260.0        to        440.5       I"e         41.1        In           40.         ISO              57.3       e.9       2.e0
..-.A~~~~~~~~~~................
............................................... ..............................::::.:::: ...j::::..::::..,,,,,..,::,,-,.....................  -  ::, ...........
bcerns  IK  - Cirnes uaclasales i  Nuwactwal   1957, Ili7, 5919
CI0, lirctlor ladutrlal 1913
l NeI r  wu    4-9 IqIay"ine   sill ls1etryl 10-49 Iqleyme              mdi,. sale Iudutryl  0n   eqloyses lalga l.dtryi 1ew  #"1Ieue
!  Valu   Ee  .4  N1199S



ANNEX 6
T-4
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AID MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table 4: Capital Formation and Intensity
by Size of Firm by Employment
(in millions of US dollars)
Year            Capital Forfiation                                 F.ros Employing
5-9     10-49    50-99  10O-19        200+        TOTAL
1979   Fixed Assets (in gill. US doilars)    97.9    55Z.          509.1    859.1       '384        5$03.4
Z distribution                            1.8      10.2       Q.4      15.9     62.6          100.0
1983   Fixed Assets (in ;ill. US d3llars)   118.4    710.4    651.2   1077.2   4130.2               668. 4
distribction                            1.8      10.a       9.7      16.1     t1.8         100.0
1979-83  I change                                  20.9     28.4      27.9      25.4      22.1          23.8
1979   Machinery & Equipment                     43.6    281.4    277.0    601.4   1720.7           2924.1
I distribution                            1.5       9.6      *9.5     20.6      58.8         .100.0
198-3,  Machinerv & Equip.ernt                   52.7,   361.3    354.3    754.0   2100.0           3622.3
Z distribution                            1.5      10.0       9.8     20.6      53.0         100.0
1979-8T  I change                                  20.9     28.4      27.9      25.4      22.0          23.9
1979   Capital-Output Ratio                      0.99     0.85      0.81      1.12      1.05          1.01
' spread                                 98.0      84.2      80.2    110.9      04.0         100.0
1983   Capital-Output Ratia                      1.18     1.02      0.97      1.35      1.29          1.21
2 spread                                 97.5      84.3      80.2    111.6    106.6          100.0
1979-83  '2 change                                 19.2     20.0      19.8      20.5      22.8          19.8
1979   Capita.-Labor Ratio                       Z760     6100    11030    19910    26010            13362
I spread                                 48.1      45.7      82.5    149.0    194.7          '00.0
1983   Capital-Labor Ratio                       5060     7780    i4090    255300    3625)           17696
2 spread                                 28.6      44.0      79.2 143.0    204.8             10.0
1979-83  2 change                                  34.6      27.5     27.7      27.1      39.4          32.4
1979   Capacity Utili:ation (2)                 51.4      67.4       3.3      53.        .3
- 1983   Capacity Utilization (2)                  22.3      47.5     51.7      51.7      94.4
1979-83  Z change
Ace Distribution af ,achinzrv I Equip2ent
0- years                               21.1     32.9      51.?         .c9   100.0          40.6
10-20 years                             55.2     40.9      40.4      40.4                    40.4
2-I  years                              23.7     26.        7.7       7.                     13.5
Source:  Computed from INlE, Censo Macional de  anr.ufacturas !979;
SERCOTEC, "53tudios de posihilidaues 4e 'a PeqLena - l1ediana E2pres-as, Dec. 1582



-42-                                        AUNNE 6
STAP APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL A1 D IEDMIU SCALE MIDUSTRY PROJIECT
Table 5:  Main Accounts of the Chilean BEankig System
TOa1                Fqgty       bc       lb
A_O                                      PAI           P"o
-_      " 97a.8   966M.9           31.9s  35.5         T7.0   1473.7
Da CWLIO"5.                     51.7         6.4    1763.7      317.6    519.0
l Smt                 36 AO     2619.3      10.8      761.5     237.4  S     3
1164.3   1166.8       45       273.2      119.4    199.5
SL.2     492L4       12.      I.3        26o       Ms
259.2    22.          6.4      43          4.6      2D.0
cwx7y I Pd.'m        IOU.7    9W0.4        3273      235.3      290.2    137.4
1M.5    17M.0         52.5     325.3       56.2    182.5
OA                16A3.M9    1576.5     4.4       4132        69.6    17.5
938.9    966.1      31.        Z5.8 .           33  9 D.9
NW                     841.6    814         25.1    1U2          267       83.4
A. Um                  89.3    79.7         ZL6       1981       2W        982
D. ssm                  98.9    870.5       39.4      21L9       18.9    I012
bpS,eL-u               39351.7   53.8       3.9       41.3        0.0      5.9
m y la W1k             673.4    6430        3.4       146.2      13.8      92.8
Nmdmd           5.6        3W3        25.3      98.1        3.O      69.4
mxwm-rj ~   431.1    416.4        14.7      92.9       12.0      32.2
333.6    336.3       -2A6      65.4        2.0      47.5
[,S.5    163.0       6.5       19.3        2.6      21.9
-gUo                   131.7    12          3.5        0.8        2.9      27.5
123.6    U2.8         7.9.     15.2        0.0      11.8
W1.6     14           8.2      22.6        0.0       2.0
SmI9.                  92.7      86,9       7.9       25.3        0.0       9.9
CmhLy A P evam        3124.9    344.7      LW.1      438.9       36.7      36.7
ac1hw-                 772.4    747.5       24.9      105.4      18.9      18.9
En                    439.2      25.2       14.0     106.3        5.0       5.0
3660     33.4        27.6       7.0        0.0       0.0
th.ic                  t210.9    198.6      14.3      34.2        0.0       0.0
I39.5    31.2         8.2      3L9         3.9       3.9
10M.8     9S.5        9.3      1L7         0.0       0.0
t14.4    137.4       80        21.7        0.0       0.0
chm jt_hatcm     386.2    372.5        11.7      37.3        8.9       8.9
E                      136.7     ll          8.6       16.2       0.0       0.0
f                      [0 0.7    9Z6         8.0       21.6     lcO.0       0.0
9Z1                    63.8      55.9        8.0       11.1       0.0       0.0
T*YO                    47.5     39.6        7.9       8.0        0.0       0.0
CA1tfa                  34.9     56.1        O8        2.0         .0       0.0
lp          :          29.5      2D.9        8.6       2.1        0.0       0.0
Do v.l                  40.7     35.1        5.5       6.3        0.0       0.0
rmmqo= A_pwtlft        37.8      3D.1        7.7       1.0        0.0       0.0
S5.D1AL P*1US         30.4 Z271.1          574.4    5399.7     1101.9   2647.8
D1a Ea&               4900.4    42L2       378.2      931.6       0.0       0.0
Taw27945.8   299.3                         952.5    6331.3    110 1.9    261.7.8



-43-
ANNEX6
T-6
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
SERVICI0 DE COOPERACION TECNICA
Table 6:  HISTORICAL BALANCE SHEET 1981-1984
(As of December 31 in Ca$ millions)
Assets                        1981         1982          1983         1984
Cash + Banks                  7.2           8.4          40.4         12.7
Negotiable Securities        88.8          57.2          70.5         96.9
Accounts Receivable          24.2          35.7          11.7         10.2
Misc. Assets                  4.8           4.5           2.8          4.5
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS  125.0          105.8         125.4       130.3
Loans Receivable              -             -             -           34.7
Fixed Assets                 64.5          75.8          88.7        114.5
Other Assets                 15.2          29.7          22.7          8.4
TOTAL ASSETS           204.7         211.3         236.8       287.9
Liabilities
Accounts Payable             14.5           2.1           3.1          4.1
Net Worth
Capital                      40.7          39.8          39.6         39.3
Reserve for Revaluation    112.1          147.0         194.7        244.5
Capital (Paem-Cars)           -             -             -           53.1
TOTAL NET WORTH        152.8         186.8         233.7       336.9
Accumulated Profit/(Loss)   37.4           22.4           -          (53.4)
Adjusted Net Worth          190.2         209.2         233.7        283.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES &
NET WORTH            204.7         211.3        236.8        287.9
LCPI2
April 1985



ANNEX 6
T-7
CRILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
SERVICIO DE COOPERACION TECNICA
Table  7:  HISTORICAL INCOME STATEMENT 1981 - 1984
(As of December 31 in CH$ millions)
1981      1982        1983      1984
INCOME
Fees                                     89.6      137.2        55.3     28.3
Interest on Securities                    12.7      24.2         5.9      17.0
Interest & Commissions (Loans)            -          -           0.9      1.1
Total Operating Income             102.3      161.6       62.1      46.2
Budget Transfers (CORFO)                  -          -         158.3    2b3.4
Sale of Assets                           57.6        1.5         0.3      0.8
Otther Income                             0.5        3.4         -        -
Total Income                       lhU.4      l.5        2.7    310.4
EXPENSES
Salaries                                 93.9-      91.8       111.5    146.1
Supplies, Maintenance & Misc.            43.b       72.0        52.6     55.4
Rental Expense                            -          5.3         2.5       1.9
Transfers                                 -          0.8         1.7     60.0
Total Operating Costs              137.5      169.9      168.4    263.4
Other Expenses                           10.5       10.4        29.6     60.6
Monetary Correction                       16.8      21.8        28.5     25.4
Total Expenses                     164.ts     202.1     -Zb.4    349.4
Net Surplus (Deficit)               (4.4)    (35.6)       (5.7)   (39.0)
LCPI2
April 1985



-45-                             ANNEX 6
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SHAt L AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
SERVICIO DE COOPERACION TECNICO
Table  8:  PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET 1984-1987
(As of December 31 in CH$ millions)
Assets                       1981         1982          1983        1984
Cash + Banks                  7.2          8.4          40.4        12.7
Negotiable Securities        88.8         57.2      -  70.5         96.9
Accounts Receivable          24.2        _35.7          11.7        10.2
Misc. Assets               - 4.8           4.5           2.8         4.5
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS  125.0         105.8         1.25.4      130.3
Loans Receivable                           -             -          34.7
Fixed Assets                 64.5         75.8          88.7       114.5
Other Assets                 15.2         29.7          22.7         8.4
TOTAL ASSETS           204.7        211.3,       236.8        287.9
Liabilities
Accounts Payable             14.5          2.1           3.1         4.4
Net Worth
Capital                      40.7         39.8          39.6        39.3
Reserve for Revaluation    112.1         147.0         194.7       244.5
Capital (Paew-Cars)           -            -             -          53.1
TOTAL NET WORTH        152.8        186.8        233.7        336.9
Accumulated Profit/(Loss)   37.4          22.4           -         (53-4)
Adjusted Net Worth          190.2        209.2         233.7       283.8
TOTAL LIABILITIES &
NET WORTH           204.7         211.3        236.8        287.9
LCPI2
April 1985



- 46 -
ANNEX 6
T-9
CHILE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
SERVICIO DE COOPERACION TECNICO
Table 9:  PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT 1984 - 1987
(As of December 31 in CH$ millions)
1984      1985       1986      1987
INCOME
Fees                                    28.3       13.5       14.0      14.0
Interest on Securities                  17.0        7.1        7.0      7.0
Interest & Commissions (Loans)           1.1       13.8       43.3     76.4
Total Operating Income             46.2      34.4        64.3     97.4
Budget Transfers (CORFO)               263.4      648.0      727.3    683.2
Sale of Assets                           0.8        0.2        0.3      0.2
Other Income                                        -          -        -
Total Income                      310.4     682.6       791.9    780.8
EXPENSES
Salaries                               146.1     535.3       614.8    577.1
Supplies, Maintenance & Misc.           55.4      107.1      112.5    106.1
Rental Expense                           1.9        1.5        1.5      1.5
Transfers                               60.0        4.1        4.9      5.0
Total Operating Costs             263.4     647.9       733.7    689.7
Other Expenses                          60.6       10.3       14.5      16.0
Monetary Correction                     25.4        -          -        -
Total Expenses                    349.4     657.9       748.2    705.7
Net Surplus (Deficit)             (39.0)     24.7        43.7     75.1
LCPI2
April 1985



1 i 9    ~~~;    y$(- /          w  @  _t          Amer c
RE"             AO                                       AV-         :  _"_ /(D
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J. TMPAA   



