Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
RePWttNo.  13181
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2613-CH)
JUNE 22, 1994
Trade, Finance and Private Sector Development
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch $)
Average Exchange Rates (per US dollars)
1985               US$1         =            Ch$   161.08
1986               US$1         =            Ch$   193.02
1987               US$1         =            Ch$   219.41
1988               US$1         =            Ch$   245.01
1989               US$1         =            Ch$  266.95
1990               US$1         =            Ch$  304.90
1991               US$1         =            Ch$   349.22
1992               US$1         =            Ch$   362.58
1993               US$1         =            Ch$  404.17
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGR         -      Contraloria General de la Republica
Govemment Comptroller
CORFO       -      Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n
(National Development Corporation)
IDB         -      Banco Interamericano de Desarollo
(Interamerican Development Bank)
INE         -      Instituto Nacional de Estadistica
(National Institute of Statistics)
PAEM        -      Programa de Apoyo a Empresas de Menor Tamano
(Program to Support Microenterprises)
PROMEPI   -        Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Pequena y Mediana
Industria (Integrated Support Program for Small and
Medium Industry)
PYME        -      Programa de Pequenas y Mediana Empresas
(Small and Medium Scale Industries)
SERCOTEC  -        Servicio de Cooperaci6n Tecnica
(Technical Cooperation Service)
UF          -      Unidad de Fomento (Unit of account which reflects the
fluctuations of the Consumer Price Index)
UNIDO       -      Organizaci6n de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarollo
Industrial (United Nations Industrial Development
Organization)
GOVERNMENT OF CHILE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 22, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Chile
Small and Medium Industry Proiect (Loan 2613-CH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Chile - Small and Medium Industry Project (Loan
2613-CH) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II contributed by
the Borrower.
The project objectives were to (i) increase employment, productivity and output in small and
medium scale industries (SMI), through an integrated credit and technical assistance program; and (ii)
strengthen the management and technical skills of the financial intermediaries involved. The project was
to promote the participation of selected commercial banks, thus enabling many small and medium scale
industries to have access to the banking system.
The physical objectives were achieved. More than 1,600 firms participated in the project and
employment generation was well above objectives. However, due to the limited institutional capacity of
the main financial intermediary and lack of participation of commercial banks, the pace of loan
commitments was slower than expected, and the loan was closed with one year delay. Presently, most of
the beneficiary enterprises are operating normally.
Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, the institutional impact as modest and
sustainability as likely.
The PCR focuses on project implementation issues and the quality of the loan portfolio of the
principal financial intermediary. The PCR provides limited information on the financial position of
enterprises and financial intermediaries, as well as the performance of the subprojects and technical
assistance, and does not discuss the industry and finance policy framework in which the firms operated
during the project implementation period. Part II offers a balanced assessment of Bank performance.
An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance of their official duties. Its contents
nmy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2613-CH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                                                            i
Evaluation Summary                                               ii
I.    MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED BY BANK                    1
A. Project Identities                                       1
B. Background                                               1
C. Project Objective and Description                        4
D. Project Implementation                                   8
E. Project Results                                         10
F. Project Sustainability                                  10
G. Bank Performance                                        11
H. Borrower Performance                                    11
I. Project Relationship                                    12
J. Consulting Services/Other Participating Entities        12
K. Project Documentation and Data                          13
L. Lessons Learned                                         13
H.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE
IMPACT OF THE PROJECT                                      16
A. Evaluation of the Bank's Performance                    16
B. Evaluation of CORFO and SERCOTEC                        17
C. Effectiveness of the Relationship Between the Bank and the
Borrower                                                18
HI.   STATISTICAL DATA                                            19
3.1 Related Bank Loans                                     19
3.2 Project Timetable                                      19
3.3 Loan Disbursements                                     20
3.4 Project Estimated (Appraisal) Cost                     21
3.5 Project Estimated (Appraisal) Financing                21
3.6a Project Financing: Planned and Actual                 22
3.6b Loan Financing: Planned and Actual                    22
3.7a Project Results                                       23
3.7b Financing Through Commercial Banks                    23
3.8 Status of Covenants                                    24
3.9 Use of Bank Resources                                  27
3.10 Missions                                              28
3.11 Key Project Data                                      31
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance a Aihr
ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2613-CH)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Small and
Medium Industry Project which was financed by the proceeds of the Bank
Loan 2613-CH.
2.    The Loan for US$40.0 million was signed on October 25, 1985 and
became effective on February 19, 1986. Initially, implementation of the loan
lagged with respect to the original schedule because of delays in establishing
an appropriate institutional set-up in Chile to administer the project. A one
year postponement of the Closing Date allowed for complete disbursement of
the Loan. The Project provided financing for small and medium industrial
enterprises which had scarce access to commercial bank credit; it also
provided technical assistance to enterprises and to the Govemment.
3.    The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and HI of the PCR
were prepared by the Trade, Finance, and Private Sector 'Development
Division, Department IV of the Latin America and the Caiibbean Regional
Office (LA4TF) and are based, inter alia, on the President's keport; the
Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; final project
analysis prepared by the Borrower; and intemal Bank memoranda. Part II
was prepared by the Borrower.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROTECT
(LOAN 2613-CH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Qbjective
1.    The major objective of the Small and Medium Industry (SMI) Project
was to assist the Government in carrying out its program for SMI
development, through an integrated package of assistance including access to
credit facilities on appropriate terms and conditions, and technical assistance
linked to the institutional needs of beneficiaries under the credit program
supplemented by training and supporting services. The project was to
strengthen management and technical skills in state institutions related to its
implementation. The project was also to promote the participation of
selected commercial banks as intermediaries, thus enabling many SMIs to
have access to the banking system (para. 1.12).
2.   Institutional Arrangements. The Bank accepted an organizational set-
up that designated CORFO as the Borrower, the Government of Chile as the
Guarantor and SERCOTEC as the Executing Agency. SERCOTEC was
assigned the function of Technical Secretariat of the project, consisting
mainly of interacting with beneficiaries, processing applications and technical
reports for subprojects, developing and executing technical assistance and
training programs, and designing and implementing the information systems
required internally and for the Bank. CORFO was responsible for
administering the line of credit, supplying the local counterpart funds,
approving, allocating and collecting the subloans, and channeling Bank loan
funds (para. 1.14).
3.    Cost and Financing. The total project cost was estimated at US$75
million equivalent, with US$61.5 million to provide credit to micro, small
and medium-scale enterprises, US$10 million for a capital risk fund managed
by CORFO, and US$3.5 million to provide technical assistance to
government institutions. The Bank was to finance US$40 million, 53.3% of
the project's total cost, including about 53% of the credit component, 50% of
the risk capital component, and 57% of the technical assistance component
(para. 1.16).



Implementation and Results
4.    Project Disbursements. At appraisal, it had been estimated that the
first disbursement of the Loan would be made in fiscal year 1986 and that the
funds would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1991. However, due to
institutional factors mentioned in para. 1.20 the pace of commitments was
slower than estimated. By the third year of the Loan, FY 1988, actual
disbursements totalled only 36.6% of the appraisal estimates, which led to
extensions of the Commitment and Closing Dates. Subsequent modifications
to the Loan led to an improvement in disbursements; the Loan was fully
disbursed on July 22, 1992 (para. 1.20).
5.    Results. The Project's primary objective of promoting increased
employment, output and productivity in the SMI sector was achieved. Over
1,500 firms in the SMI sector, which otherwise may not have had access to
commercial bank financing, benefitted under the project. About 17,500 jobs
were created and incremental production approached US$150 million (1992
constant dollars). In addition, about 739 firms received technical assistance.
However, the involvement of commercial banks as financial intermediaries
was low, with only 28 firms financed through participating commercial banks
for a total Bank loan amount of about US$3.8 million (para. 1.23).
6.    Sustainab"ilit. The project may be considered sustainable, since
about 80% of the beneficiary enterprises are operating normally, with the
remainder experiencing different degrees of difficulty. The former group is
expected to continue operating and expanding, contributing to the
strengthening of the SMI sector. In a broader context, although the project
has not ensured the sustainability of SMI financing by commercial banks in
the way it was originally planned, the Government is employing a variety of
instruments to increase accessibility by SMIs to commercial bank financing,
and has also assigned the state-owned Banco del Estado responsibility for
financing this sector (para. 1.25).
Lessons Learned
7.    The following lessons have been learned under the project: (a) the
lack of commercial bank participation show the importance of carrying-out
during appraisal an in-depth assessment of financial institutions and potential
beneficiaries in order to determine their needs and feasible roles so that
project objectives can be met; (b) difficulties in coordination between
CORFO and SERCOTEC and problems with loan collections by CORFO
indicate the need for ensuring an adequate institutional set-up for the project;
(c) excessive modifications to the Loan Agreement leading to delays in
implementation point out to the desirability of achieving an optimum balance
between segmentation and flexibility, avoiding the establishment of too many
loan categories; (d) the fixed interest rate arrangement requiring
modifications to the Loan Agreement which caused delays in implementation
underscore the need for interest rates arrangements reflecting or adjusting to
market conditions; (e) delays and problems with audit reports show that the



iv
Bank must be careful in accepting state auditors unless their independency
and reliability could be assured; and (f) the fact that in spite of high turnover
of the Bank's and the Borrower's staff a fluid relationship between them
allowed to overcome difficulties underlines the importance of having good
communication between the Bank and the executing agencies (paras. 1.35-
1.40).
Bank Group Assistance to Chile
8.    Bank lending during the early 1980s concentrated mainly in improving
infrastructure (principally water and sewerage, power, irrigation and
transportation); subsequenUy it shifted focus in the mid-1980s to supporting
the structural adjustment process, with three successive structural adjustment
loans providing a total of US$750 million during 1985-88. The SMI Project
and the Industrial Finance Restructuring Project, both approved during 1985,
were designed to address sector specific issues which required special
attention within the Government's broader macroeconomic adjustment
process.






pROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LQAN 2613-CH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
1.1   Project Name:           Small and Medium Industry Project
Loan Number:            2613-CH
Loan Amount:            US$40 million
RVP Unit:               LA4TF
Country:                Chile
Sector:                 Industry
B.   Background
1.2  Inustrial Sct=  - Extensive govemment intervention and import
substitution policies, which had taken place in Chile since the Great
Depression, were exacerbated by the Popular Unity Govemment of 1971-73,
resulting in hyperinflation, acute shortages and a crisis on the balance of
payments. The govemment which came to power in 1973 implemented a
severe adjustment program, which among other measures included a
significant reduction of import tariffs, a change in state enterprise pricing to
reflect opportunity and/or actual costs, and actions to ensure positive interest
rates in financial markets.
1.3 In the late 1970s, after an initial reduction in industrial activity and
output, the industrial sector showed signs of recovery in reaction to the
Govemment's macroeconomic policies. This trend continued until 1979,
when the exchange rate was fixed. Following a speculative boom, the
Chilean economy was adversely affected by the overvalued exchange rate,
coupled with the effects of the international recession and a drastic
contraction of foreign lending. Overall domestic demand fell rapidly,
causing a 20% fall in manufacturing output. While virtually all subsectors
experienced reductions in production, the situation was particularly serious
for import-competing nondurable consumer goods.
1.4   Following a peso devaluation and an increase in the uniform import
tariff in 1982 and a new increase in import tariffs in 1984, many consumer
good industries were once again able to compete with imports. The
industrial sector began to recover significantly in the fourth quarter of 1983;
and by end-1984, the sector had recaptured almost one-half of the loss
incurred during 1981-83. While overall domestic demand was still



depressed, substitution of imports permitted higher levels of output for local
producers.
1.5  In the atmosphere of free competition of the mid-to-late 1970s, the
Government had been less concerned than its predecessors in providing
support for productive activities. Consequently, its support of Small and
Medium Industries (SMIs) had been drastically reduced. "Servicio de
Cooperacion Tecnica" (SERCOTEC), a CORFO subsidiary, which had been
established in 1952 to assist SMIs in becoming more efficient and productive
through the provision of technical assistance, training and credit, had its staff
reduced by 92%. Many of SERCOTEC's programs were abolished, and
SMI firms were asked to cover a growing proportion of the costs of
remaining programs. In 1985, this situation underwent a dramatic change.
The important role given to SMIs by the Government in its Triennial
Program for 1984-86, and the establishment of an integrated program for the
development of SMIs, Programa de Apoyo Integral a la Pequena y Mediana
Industria (PROMEPI), represented a major departure from the policy of the
previous decade. The Govemment's new determination to assist SMIs was
reflected in the resurgence of SERCOTEC, whose staff was increased four-
fold between 1982 and 1985 and which reopened 16 regional offices during
that period.
1.6   Characteristics of the SMI Sector - The National Institute of Statistics
of Chile (INE) considers the following classification for industry according to
size: microenterprises (artisan industries) -- 4-9 employees; small industry --
10-49 employees; medium scale industry -- 50-99 employees; and large
industry -- 100+ employees. According to the 1978 industrial census, SMIs
accounted for 97% of all industrial workers, contributing 40% of the total
industrial sector value added, while utilizing 44% of the total sectoral value
of machinery and equipment. For purposes of the Small and Medium
Industry Project, medium scale industry was limited to those enterprises with
fixed assets not exceeding the equivalent of US$750,000, which included less
than one-half of medium scale industry as classified by INE. Although no
explicit explanation was provided for this upper limit on eligibility, it is most
likely that this decision was made considering that the smaller of the medium
scale enterprises had similar characteristics to those of small enterprises.
However, due to lack of more disaggregated data, the analysis of the SMI
sector was based on figures according to INE's classification, and not to that
of the Project, as reflected in the following paragraphs.
1.7   Under the economic policies of the post-1973 Government, the
relative importance of SMIs in the industrial sector declined. A survey of
100 small-and medium-sized manufacturing firms, undertaken by a World
Bank/UNIDO mission in late 1979, showed that in 1978 SMI firms employed
12% fewer people than in 1973, that average capacity utilization was some
56% (as opposed to about 75% in industry as a whole), that their 1978 sales
were 14% below the 1972 peak level, and that the average age of firms was
over 26 years with only 4% of the firms founded between 1973-78. During



- 3 -
the 1970s an estimated 20% of SMIs disappeared as a result of bankruptcies
and closures, while other firms switched from manufacturing to commerce.
Between 1979 and 1983, as a consequence of the recession, the number of
establishments fell a further 3.8%, employment declined by 5.6% and value
added fell by 3.5%. By 1983, overall capacity utilization of SMIs had fallen
to around 50%. Although industrial output recovered in 1985 to 1979 levels,
it was mostly due to the contribution of medium-scale enterprises.
1.8   While part of the small industry poor performance can be attributed to
the loss of markets, several other factors indicated weaknesses which had to
be addressed if this subsector was to play a role in the future development of
the country. Surveys carried-on in 1984 showed that about 65 percent of the
total fixed assets in enterprises employing between 10 and 49 people were
over 10 years old. About 80 percent of machinery in microenterprises was
older than 10 years. Conversely, most large firms had renewed their capital
stock, and capacity utilization was of the order of 75 percent in 1979,
increasing to 85 percent by 1982. By contrast, small industries utilized only
about one-half of their capacity in the early 1980s, and microenterprises even
less. This situation was subsequently aggravated by the earthquake that
struck central Chile, a region which contains the largest concentration of
Chilean industry, on March 3, 1985. SERCOTEC carried out a survey on
the effects of the earthquake on SMIs estimating that some 4,000 to 4,500
firms were damaged. Total reconstruction costs for this sector were
estimated at about US$35 million equivalent.
1.9   State Policies for the SMI Sector - SMI firms in the 1960's and early
1970's had prospered in an environment of high protection and ample credit
at low interest rates. Census data from 1967 indicated that profit rates in
those firms were substantially higher than those in larger firms. However,
studies on SMIs carried out during the period suggested substantial
constraints to further SMIs growth due to: (a) an unskilled or semi-skilled
labor force; (b) low level of capacity utilization; (c) obsolescence of installed
machinery; (d) low level of education of entrepreneurs (more than half of the
small scale industrialists had only completed primary education); and (e)
excessive concentration on small local markets.
1.10 The reduced Government role in the economy from 1973 onward,
also led to a restriction of its participation in the development of industry in
general, and a decrease in support to SMIs in particular. SERCOTEC's
provision of technical assistance, training and credit, which in the past had
been substantial, was reduced to a minimum.
1.11 After Chile's recession in the early 1980s, when unemployment
became one of the most pressing social and economic problems, the
Govemment showed renewed interest in developing an efficient SMI
subsector. In the context of the Govemment's development program for
1984-86, which called for the generation of employment and promotion of
exports in the industrial sector, SMIs were viewed as an important instrument



- 4 -
for the creation of employment opportunities. The Government also aimed at
strengthening the productive capacity and competitiveness of SMIs to enable
them to supply larger industries and local markets, and to penetrate selected
external markets. To support these objectives, the Government, through
CORFO and SERCOTEC, established an integrated credit/technical
assistance program for the development of SMIs aiming at eliminating
problems which were constraining their development. SERCOTEC was
given sufficient financial and human resources to enable it to play a key role
in the provision of technical assistance and training to SMIs, and in
particular, in its program to support microenterprises (PAEM).
C.   Project Objectives and Description
1.12 Project Qbjectives - The important role given to SMIs by the
Govemment in its Triennial Program for 1984-86 in order to promote
employment, output and productivity represented a major departure from the
policy of the previous decade. The primary objective of the project was to
assist the Govemment in carrying out this program by providing SMIs with
an integrated package of assistance, including access to credit facilities on
appropriate terms and conditions, and technical assistance linked to the
institutional needs of beneficiaries under the credit program, supplemented by
training and supporting services. The project was to strengthen management
and technical skills in those institutions which would provide credit, technical
assistance and supporting services to SMIs. The project was also to promote
the participation of selected commercial banks as financial intermediaries,
thus enabling many SMIs to have access to the banking system.
1.13  Loan Justification - This project was the first Bank project to support
the development of the SMI sector in Chile. The strategy adopted was to
assist the govemment in carrying out PROMEPI, its integrated program for
SMIs development. Although SERCOTEC had substantially contributed to
the development of the SMI sector, over time the role and funding of this
entity had been drastically reduced. The Bank intended to upgrade the
performance of the SMI sector by using SERCOTEC's extensive experience
and infrastructure to provide financing and technical assistance for this
sector; but in order to achieve this, SERCOTEC's technological and
management capabilities were to be strengthened.
1.14 Institutional Arrangements - The Bank accepted an organizational set-
up that designated CORFO as the Borrower, the Government of Chile as the
Guarantor, and SERCOTEC as the Executing Agency. SERCOTEC was
assigned the function of Technical Secretariat of the project, which meant
that it was basically responsible for interacting with beneficiaries, processing
applications and technical reports for the subprojects, developing and
executing technical assistance and training programs, and designing and
implementing the information systems required intemally and for the Bank.
CORFO was responsible for administering the line of credit, supplying the



- 5 -
local counterpart funds, approving, funding and collecting the subloans, and
channeling Bank loan funds.
1.15 Scale of the Project - A survey conducted by SERCOTEC showed
that capital equipment in SMIs was much older than in larger firms, and
needed to be replaced if SMIs were to become more competitive.
Calculations based on conservative assumptions with respect to both capacity
expansion and replacement of existing capital stock suggested that potential
investment by SMIs would total some US$145 million over a 3-year period.
The import content of the machinery and equipment was estimated to be at
least 50%, or about US$75 million. Given the foreign exchange shortage, it
was expected that credit financing would be sought for virtually the entire
amount. In the absence of alternative lines of credit for investment financing
for SMIs, and estimating that about 20% of the total would be financed
through suppliers' credit, demand for machinery and equipment financing
under a Bank loan was therefore expected to reach about US$20 million a
year. The demand for free-standing working capital was estimated at about
one-fourth of this amount. Data for the fully committed IDB-CORFO credit
line supported the above estimates: over the two-year period from start-up to
November 1984, almost US$50 million had been committed under the project
component for financing SMIs.
1.16  Project Cost and Bank Financing - Considering a commitment period
of 2 years, and taking into account the limits imposed on SERCOTEC's
absorptive capacity by the rapid growth of its activities, the total project cost
was estimated at US$75 million equivalent, of which the Bank would finance
US$40 million, about 53.3% of the project's total cost, including about 53%
of the credit component, 57% of the technical assistance component, and
50% of the risk capital component (see Table I-1).



- 6 -
Table I-1 - Project Estimated Cost and Financing
(US$ millions)
Items              Bank     Government  Commercial  Enterprise    Total
Banks
I. Credit
Component
Microenterprises       4.0          3.0                      1.0        8.0
Small-Scale           15.0          2.5           1.5        6.0       25.0
Enterprises
Medium-               15.0          2.5           2.5        5.0       25.0
Scale
Enterprises
Export                 1.6          0.5                      0.6        2.7
Promotion
Technology             0.4          0.3                      0.1        0.8
Development
Total Credit          36.0          8.8           4.0       12.7       61.5
Component
II. Risk Ca,pital      2.0          2.0                      6.0       10.0
HI. Technical          2.0          1.5                                 3.5
Assistance and
Training
TOTAL                 40.0         12.3           4.0       18.7       75.0
Percentage            53.3         16.4           5.3       25.0      100.0
1.17 Description - The Loan for US$40 million equivalent, consisted of the
following components:
(a)   CORFO Sub-loans - A US$30 million component for
sub-loans to small-or-medium-scale enterprises to
finance (i) (Category 1A) fixed assets and associated
permanent working capital for loans of US$100,000
equivalent or more - US$10 million,(ii) (Category IB)
fixed assets and associated permanent working capital
for loans of less than US$100,000 equivalent - US$10
million, (iii) (Category 2A) permanent working capital
not associated with an investment in fixed assets for
loans of US$100,000 equivalent or more - US$5
million, and (iv) (Category 2B) permanent working



- 7 -
capital not associated with an investment in fixed assets
for loans of less than US$100,000 equivalent - US$5
million.
(b)   Investments - (Category 3) A US$2 million capital risk
fund established by the Borrower to finance, through
the purchase of shares of capital stock in small-or-
medium-scale enterprises, the establishment of new or
the expansion of existing enterprises.
(c)   SERCOTEC Sub-loans - A US$6 million component for
sub-loans to finance (i) (Category 4A) fixed assets and
associated permanent working capital to be used in
developing artisan activities to microenterprises
qualifying as beneficiaries under PAEM - US$4
million, (ii) (Category 4B) expenses associated with the
promotion of exports of non-traditional products
manufactured by Small-or Medium-Scale Enterprises,
including expenses incurred for product design and
development, quality control and testing, production of
samples and travel abroad and other expenditures
associated with product promotion in specific foreign
markets - US$1.6 million, and (iii) (Category 4C) costs
of technology development, including product design,
testing and development, and initial production run in
SMIs - US$0.4 million.
(d)   Technical Assistance - (Category 5) A US$2 million
component for (i) strengthening of SERCOTEC in the
areas of planning and programming, developing
monitoring systems to follow-up investment projects,
evaluating the results achieved by PAEM, evaluating
the performance of the Guarantee Fund with the
possibility to establish a privately-owned guarantee
fund, and identifying projects, (ii) acquiring equipment
and vehicles for SERCOTEC, (iii) strengthening of
CORFO and SERCOTEC's personnel involved in the
Risk Capital Fund and the feasibility of establishing
privately-owned small investment companies and a
privately-owned venture capital fund, (iv) strengthening
the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Advisory Unit
to the Sub-Secretariat of Economy in charge of
developing policies and procedures for monitoring the
overall impact of the Project, (v) training of selected
staff of SERCOTEC and participating Banks in project
identification, preparation, evaluation, monitoring and
supervision, and (vi) training of staff of Investment
Enterprises in areas critical to upgrading the



- 8 -
performance of key management and technical staff
thereof.
1.18 Interest Rate Arrangement - According to the Loan Agreement,
CORFO was to onlend the proceeds of the loan, either directly or through
participating commercial banks. The annual interest rate charged to
participating banks was determined as 4 percent on UF (Unidades de
Fomento - a monetary reference unit adjusted daily for inflation]) for
subloans destined to small-scale enterprises (subloans under US$100,000) and
at five percent on UF for subloans destined to medium-scale enterprises
(subloans of US$100,000 and more). The annual interest rate to project
beneficiaries was set at 8 percent on UF, except to microenterprises for
which it was set at 4 percent on UF. A one percent front-end fee was to be
charged in all credit operations by the institutions involved. The adequacy of
the rates to banks and to project beneficiaries was to be reviewed by
CORFO, SERCOTEC and the Bank every six months, and was to be
changed as necessary to ensure that interest rates remained positive in real
terms and consistent with market conditions and that intermediation fees
remained sufficiently attractive to ensure commercial bank financing of SMIs.
CORFO was to bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank Loan and the
commercial risk on subloans and investments made directly; participating
banks were to assume the commercial risk on their subloans.
1.19  A fall in market interest rates from about 8.6 percent on UF at the
beginning of 1986 to 7.3 percent on UF by midyear led to a CORFO request
and a Bank approval of a reduction in the project onlending interest rate from
8 percent on UF to 7 percent on UF. After a further fall in market rates to
about 6.9 percent on UF, the Bank approved in April 1987, another
reduction to 6.5 percent on UF for subloans, except those to microenterprises
which remained at 4 percent on UF. Effective September 1, 1989, to reflect
increases in market rates, the onlending rates were revised upward to 6.5
percent on UF for subloans to microenterprises and 7 percent on UF for all
other subloans.
D. Project Implementation
1.20 Disbursements - The Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements were
signed on October 25, 1985 and became effective on February 19, 1986.
The first loan disbursement took place in the third quarter of FY 1986, rather
than in the estimated second quarter. At appraisal, it had been estimated that
the funds would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1991. However, actual
disbursements lagged behind estimated disbursements due to: (a) the initial
period necessary for CORFO/SERCOTEC to develop the Project's
administrative structure; (b) SERCOTEC's need to go through CORFO to
access the credit line, as it was statutorily prohibited from doing it directly;
(c) rigidities introduced by the project design which limited loan applications
(See para. 1.21) and (d) contrary to expectations, commercial banks did not
participate. By the third year of the Loan, FY 1988, actual disbursements



- 9 -
totalled only 36.6% of the appraisal estimates, which led to extension of the
Commitment and Closing Dates (See para. 1.22). Subsequent modifications
to the Loan led to an improvement in disbursements which by FY 1991
reached 87.3% of the original estimates. The Loan was fully disbursed on
July 22, 1992 (see Table 1-2).
Table I-2 - Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in US$ millions by FY)
1986   1987    1988      1989    1990      1991     1992    1993
Estimate     5.0    15.0    29.5    34.5    37.5    40.0
Actual       5.4    4.0    10.8    18.1    26.5         34.9    35.9    40.0
% of      108.0   26.7    36.6    52.5    70.7    87.2    89.8   100.0
Target   IIIIIII 
1.21 Modifications - The original project design did not sufficiently address
the financial needs of the SMI sector. Restrictions on the maximum amount
of loans to be provided to microenterprises and on the types of expenses that
enterprises could undertake with the subloans, limited the demand for this
credit line. Thus, following a request from SERCOTEC, the Loan
Agreement was amended to allow for an increase in the maximum amount
that could be borrowed by microenterprises from US$16,000 to US$21,000
and finally to US$50,000. The amendment also permitted financing of new
microenterprises, in addition to existing firms as considered in the original
project design. Another loan category which had to be modified at the
request of the Borrower was the Capital Risk Fund. 95 percent of its funds
were reallocated as it was determined that the category's sector definition
was too narrow and, more important, the handling of a venture capital
investment by a public sector institution presented too many difficulties and
was considered too risky by CORFO. Thus, applications under this category
suffered from excessive delays by CORFO's loan committee and were most
frequently not approved. In addition, funds committed to the technical
assistance component were reallocated toward the credit line due to lack of
demand for the former.
1.22 Completion - Full disbursement was achieved after several
postponements of the Closing Date. In March of 1991 the borrower
requested an extension of the Commitment Date to December 31, 1991 and
the Closing Date to June 30, 1992. The Bank approved the extension of the
Commitment Date to November 30, 1991 and of the Closing Date to June
30, 1992. On November 26, 1991 the Bank approved to extend again the
Commitment Date to March 31, 1992, leaving the Closing Date unchanged.



- 10-
E. Project Result
1.23 The Project achieved its primary objective of promoting increased
employment, output and productivity in the SMI sector. Although the actual
number of firms that participated, 1,516, was below the estimated figure,
1,763, total employment generation, 17,592, was well over three times the
estimated figure of 4,700. (See Part III. Table 3.7a). The Loan was
responsible for approximately US$100 million (1992 constant dollars) in
investment, which led to an annual increment in production of US$148
million (1992 constant dollars). Furthermore, 739 firms received technical
assistance, which is well over the appraisal estimate of 165. However, the
involvement of commercial banks as financial intermediaries was low, with
only 28 firms financed through participating commercial banks for a total
Bank loan amount of about US$3.8 million, representing 10.5% of the credit
component (See Part III. Table 3.7b).
1.24 Through financing and technical assistance to SMIs under the Loan,
CORFO/SERCOTEC strengthened their management and technical skills.
Implementation of this project provided CORFO/SERCOTEC with additional
financial and technical experience in dealing with the SMI sector. It resulted
in: (a) strengthening of SERCOTEC's management capabilities; (b)
increasing the government's knowledge about the needs and potential of
SMIs; and (c) providing CORFO/SERCOTEC with practical experience in
financing SMIs. On the other hand, it became apparent that
CORFO/SERCOTEC's character as public enterprises was not appropriate to
administer loan collections, which at the end of the project were entrusted to
commercial banks (See para. 1.29).
F.    Project Sustainability
1.25 About 80 percent of the SMI enterprises were operating normally as of
1993; the remainder were experiencing financial difficulties of different
degrees. SMIs pertaining to the former group are expected to establish
themselves as solvent enterprises, some of which, probably a limited number,
would have access to commercial loans due to an established credit history
and sufficient assets to be used as collateral. This leads to the conclusion
that the project is sustainable in the sense that beneficiary enterprises are
likely to continue their operations and even expand their plants.
Sustainability in a broader sense may also be achieved, although with some
caveats. Due mainly to the failure of establishing a Guarantee Fund and to
the unattractive margins, commercial bank participation was low and
therefore the objective of generating local capabilities of commercial banks
and other financial intermediaries (except for CORFO/SERCOTEC) to
continue financing the development of new SMIs was not met. However,
based on CORFO/SERCOTEC's experience with the project, the Government
opted for a new strategy to address SMI financial needs involving the private
sector, including the development of a credit insurance scheme by CORFO,
grants for SMIs for technical assistance in project preparation, a subsidy



- 11 -
scheme to commercial banks for financing microenterprises (Fondo de
Solidaridad e Inversion Social - FOSIS), and the promotion by SERCOTEC
of a "credit card system" for SMIs which has been positively received by
commercial banks. In addition, in 1991, the Government assigned the
responsibility of actively financing SMIs to its Banco del Estado. Therefore,
the project would also be sustainable in a broader context, provided that the
new programs are successful.
G.   Bank Performance
1.26 Loan Design. SERCOTEC was the most appropriate agency in the
country for handling loans to SMIs given its geographical coverage,
experience and well trained personnel concerning the situation and needs of
SMIs. However, the initial design of the project was flawed with respect to:
(a) the lack of a clear and elaborate definition of the exact relationship
between CORFO and SERCOTEC to be maintained throughout the project;
(b) the establishment of CORFO, through the risk capital component, as a
venture capitalist; (c) the assignment of loan collections to CORFO, which
was not equipped to perform this function; (d) the rigidities introduced by
segmenting the loan and establishing inadequate limits for subloans; and (e)
the lack of more in-depth analysis and preparation for the establishment of a
Guarantee Fund.
1.27  Suprision. The most salient weakness on behalf of the Bank was
the frequent change of task managers: seven task managers were responsible
for the Project at different stages. However, throughout the Project the Bank
consistently identified and successfully addressed problems related to the loan
design or the borrower's implementation of the Project. Amendments to the
size of the subloans, reallocation of funds among categories, and justified
extensions permitted the borrower to disburse the entire US$40 million.
H.   Borrower Performance
1.28 SERCOTEC's country-wide, well-organized, capable handling of the
SMI sector provided flexibility in project implementation through timely
changes in the loan components. As a result, over 1,500 individuals and
smaller firms, which the commercial banking sector was reluctant to finance
due to their small size and lack of well established credentials, were provided
with start-up or expansion capital.
1.29 Although the project objectives were largely met with regard to
promoting development of SMIs, there were several deficiencies which
hindered the initial implementation of the project. CORFO did not have the
knowhow or the capability to participate as a venture capitalist. SERCOTEC
repeatedly had difficulties with obtaining the budget allocations needed to
effectively carry out the technical assistance component. As the loan
developed, CORFO/SERCOTEC's difficulties in the loan collection process
became apparent. An external audit on the loan portfolio issued on



- 12 -
December 1990, showed that about 8% of outstanding loans were considered
on poor standing and another 20% presented risks higher than normal. In the
end, loan collectionis under the Project were transferred by CORFO to
commercial banks as part of an integral program for its entire portfolio. In
addition, the frequent delays in submitting audit reports were particularly
troublesome, finally causing the Bank to make the effectiveness of a proposed
reallocation of funds conditional (see para. 1.33).
I.    Project Relationship
1.30 Close communication and mutual cooperation between the Bank and
the Borrower led to the solution of problems, primarily related to the delays
and quality problems with some audits, which could have undermined the
continued viability of the project. In several instances CORFO/SERCOTEC
were able to identify specific obstacles to completing the project, for example
the need to raise the upper limits on SERCOTEC's subloans and the need to
discontinue CORFO's operation of a risk capital fund. These were followed
by requests to the Bank which usually responded with the necessary
modifications to the Loan Agreement.
J.    Consulting Services/Other Participating Entities
1.31  Consultants were employed under the technical assistance component
to upgrade the technical capabilities of the participating enterprises. The
Project financed 105 staff months of consultants, which assisted 739
enterprises. Initial allocation under Category 5 was revised downward from
US$2 million to US$736,838, as the Borrower considered it more useful to
shift funds into the credit components. 23 percent of firms that had initially
requested technical assistance declined to participate due to lack of interest
and/or because they were not eligible for subsidized credit. However, of
those that participated, over 95% felt that the technical assistance was
beneficial.
1.32 According to the Loan agreement, commercial banks were to serve as
intermediaries between CORFO/SERCOTEC and the enterprises. However,
only 28 out of 1,516 subprojects were financed through commercial banks -
these were among the largest projects accounting for 10.5% of the credit
component -- the remainder being placed directly by CORFO/SERCOTEC.
The main reasons for these results were: (i) the lack of infrastructure in
commercial banks for evaluating and administering loans to small enterprises
which do not have a credit history; (ii) the fixed margins for financial
intermediaries which were considered unattractive by commercial banks for
this type of projects; and (iii) the difficulty for SMI enterprises of meeting
the guarantee requirements.



- 13 -
K.   Project Documentation and Data
1.33 The Loan Agreement required CORFO/SERCOTEC to provide the
following audit reports: (a) CORFO's Financial Statement; (b) CORFO's
Revolving Fund; (c) the Guarantee Fund's Financial Statement; (d)
SERCOTEC's Financial Statement; (e) SERCOTEC's Project Account; and
(f) SERCOTEC's Statement of Expenditures. Except for CORFO's financial
statements, the audit reports were submitted in a timely fashion. One of the
Bank's major concerns with regard to this Project was the frequent three to
four month delay in the submission of CORFO's financial statements. The
Bank had to make the effectiveness of a requested reallocation of funds in
1990 conditional, inter alia, on the receipt of an outstanding 1988 report.
The Bank had to put on hold again the effectiveness of the reallocation of
funds pending the receipt of the 1989 audit reports for the guarantee fund.
The following concerns arose regarding CORFO's financial statements: (a)
delays in presenting the audited financial statements due to CORFO's
restructuring; and (b) concerns by the Bank about the quality and situation of
CORFO's portfolio which were not adequately reflected in the audit report
(see para. 1.34).
1.34 The Bank expressed concerns about CORFO's 1989 financial
statements due both to CORFO's situation and the quality of Contralorfa
General de la Republica's (CGR's) audit. In early 1991 a Bank mission in
connection with a potential project for restructuring of CORFO, confirmed
CORFO's distressed financial situation. The Bank found that the magnitude
of the problem was not adequately reflected in CORFO's financial
statements. Furthermore, CGR's audit had not disclosed the following
deficiencies: (a) lack of information and transparency regarding the non-
performing loans in CORFO's portfolio; (b) insufficiency of provisions for
doubtful accounts; (c) lack of disclosure about CORFO being subject to legal
suits, claims and other types of "contingent liabilities"; and (d) lack of clarity
as to the composition of CORFO's capital. Subsequently, the Government
took measures to improve CORFO's situation by, among others, eliminating
its retail lending functions, and transferring loan collections to the private
sector (paras. 1.24 and 1.29).
L.    Lessons Learned
1.35 The Project revealed the importance during appraisal to carry-out an
in-depth assessment of financial institutions and potential beneficiaries in
order to determine their needs, the role they should play in the context of the
project, and how to ensure an optimum response by these entities to meet
project objectives. Although the project analyzed potential credit
requirements by SMIs, more specific factors such as the actual size of each
subproject, and the feasibility of substantial commercial bank participation
were not sufficiently examined. The following design deficiencies resulted
from this:



- 14 -
(a)   the low limits on subloan amounts reduced their attractiveness
to SMIs; and
(b)   the project counted on a high degree of commercial bank
participation, which did not materialize.
1.36 A second lesson is that it is essential for executing institutions to
possess an adequate structure and functions leading to an efficient
implementation of the project. The Loan Agreement should ensure that the
relationship among the participating institutions is clearly defined and that
each institution is capable of performing its assigned responsibilities. The
intended Borrower, SERCOTEC, had to be replaced by its holding company,
CORFO, due to a statute that prohibits the former from directly accessing the
Bank's line of credit (see para. 2.05 in Part II). Disbursals for subprojects
were therefore slow and more bureaucratic. Further difficulties arose due to
CORFO/SERCOTEC's responsibilities for the collection of subloans; neither
of these entities was adequately equipped to perform this function. Finally,
more careful analysis of CORFO's capabilities would have cautioned against
the establishment of a venture capital fund under this institution.
1.37 A third lesson is the need to achieve an optimum balance between the
number of components and project flexibility. Although multiple components
may be important in order to cover different goals, it is also important to
distinguish between targets that merit separate categories and those that could
be grouped into one category. The project did not take this into account, as
it was divided into nine subcomponents of fixed amounts, when the same
results could have been obtained with a lower number of categories and
recommendations on how to allocate funds within each category. The fact
that during project implementation the amounts allocated for each
subcomponent were substantially modified several times, supports this
observation.
1.38 A fourth lesson is the need to take into account market fluctuations
when establishing interest rate arrangements for a project. The Loan
Agreement considered reviews every six-months between the Borrower and
the Bank to modify interest rates in accordance with market conditions (para.
1.18). The lack of an automatic adjustment caused delays in submission and
approval of subloans. This lesson was taken into account in the design of the
Second Industrial Finance Project for Chile (Loan 3053-CH).
1.39 A fifth lesson is that the Bank should carefully consider the capacity
and independence of state auditors before approving their role as project
auditors. The Bank was not satisfied with the quality of CGR's audits (para.
1.34) nor with their being significantly delayed.
1.40 A sixth lesson learned is the need to have good communication between
the Bank and the executing agencies, which would allow to overcome any
difficulties and to adapt to changing circumstances. In the case of this



- 15 -
project, frequent change of both the Bank's task managers and the
Borrower's senior staff led to lack of in-depth and up-to-date knowledge of
the project's status. This was partially overcome through the efforts made on
both sides to solve problems in implementation. For example, the Bank
responded in a timely manner to essential modifications requested by the
Borrower.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2613 - CH)
PART 1I: BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE ON THE IMPLEMENTATION
AND DEVELOPMENT
IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
2.01 SERCOTEC's Financial Assistance Administration prepared the following report
highlighting the perceived strengths and weaknesses of the Bank and the Borrower in the
execution of the Loan.
A.   Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
2.02  In our opinion, the Bank's project appraisal reflected, in general, the then prevailing
situation in the small and medium industry sector, its requirements for credit and technical
assistance, and the resources necessary to develop the program. The Bank also carried out
an acceptable assessment of SERCOTEC, the government agency in charge, based on a
comprehensive evaluation of SERCOTEC's operational and regional units.
2.03 The following strengths of the Bank were observed in the development and
implementation of the program:
(a)   adequate flexibility and willingness in dealing with problems and listening to
suggestions concerning the operational aspects of the Project. This was
reflected in agreements on modifications to loan categories and extensions of
commitment and closing dates; and
(b)   appropriate technical qualification of the Bank staff that supervised the
Program.
2.04 The Bank however, also had a number of shortcomings, as follows:
(a)   frequent changes in task managers and other participants which, contributed in
some degree, to a loss of effort and time in mutual understandings on the
objectives, importance and aims of the various project components. Another
difficulty arising from this situation was the diverging views among
supervision missions that visited Chile, which in many instances did not
recognize agreements reached with previous missions;



- 17 -
(b)   excessively detailed information requested for authorizations, approvals and
disbursements, which led to burdensome administrative work for both
SERCOTEC and CORFO;
(c)   the previous problems were aggravated by the absence of a permanent Bank
representative in Chile who could resolve the various problems and/or
questions that arose during implementation of the Program; and
(d)   the high degree of centralization in the Bank for approval and/or authorization
subprojects, which inhibited flexibility to operate. This problem became more
serious due to the relatively low authorized limits for approval of subprojects,
which proved to be especially difficult for the operations carried out by the
financial intermediaries.
B.   Evaluation of CORFO - SERCOTEC
2.05 The initial project concept recommended by the Bank considered the sole participation
of SERCOTEC as the borrower, administrator, and executing agency. However, due to
statutory reasons, it was not possible for SERCOTEC to act as the borrower; thus CORFO
(SERCOTEC's holding company) had to assume this role. SERCOTEC was assigned the
function of Technical Secretariat of the project, which meant that it was basically responsible
for receiving applications and technical reports for the subprojects, developing and executing
technical assistance and training programs, and designing and implementing the information
systems required internally and for the Bank. CORFO was responsible for administering the
line of credit, supplying local counterpart funds, and approving, allocating and collecting
subloans. In addition, CORFO was responsible for preparing and presenting to the Bank
applications for loan reimbursements.
2.06 The government counterpart showed the following strengths:
(a)   easy access and fluid relationship between SERCOTEC and the SMI sector,
which permitted an immediate and effective working relationship;
(b)   wide regional coverage by CORFO-SERCOTEC, which made it possible to
reach a large number of firms throughout the country;
(c)   the existence of a technical infrastructure at SERCOTEC, which allowed the
provision of assistance to small industries qualifying for the Program;
(d)   adequate technical qualifications of CORFO/SERCOTEC's staff participating
in the development of the Program, reinforced by training in Project
Evaluation financed under the technical assistance component; and
(e)   an adequate information system to maintain control of the Program and to
provide information to the Bank.
2.07 The weaknesses shown by the government counterpart were:



- 18 -
(a)   lack of coordination between CORFO and SERCOTEC with respect to
evaluation criteria, modifications and/or term extensions to the Loan
Agreement, budgetary control of the line of credit, and exchange and delivery
of information.
(b)   unclear assignments of duties and responsibilities between CORFO and
SERCOTEC, leading to duplication of their functions, and contributing to the
lack of coordination above indicated;
(c)   lack of uniformity in the criteria used by the different Regional Credit
Committees to evaluate and or approve the financing of subprojects;
(d)   changes of SERCOTEC and CORFO executives which led to disruptions in
communications with the Bank; and
(e)   inadequate organization in Chile to administer the Program, in particular, the
lack of a project director able to implement the Program in a comprehensive
manner.
C.   Effectiveness of the Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower
2.08 In general, as previously indicated, a lack of coordination between the Bank and
CORFO was observed throughout the execution of the Program. This problem arose mainly
due to constant changes of executives and/or interlocutors in both institutions and to the
unclear definition of functions and responsibilities between CORFO and SERCOTEC.



19
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2613 - CH)
PART HI: STATISTICAL DATA
3.1  RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan    Purpose          Year of      Principal       Status
l                   ~~~~~~~Approval  (US$ million)l
2606-CH   Industrial        1985          100         Disbursed
Financing and
.______ Restructuring                                             l
3053-CH   Industrial        1989           75         Disbursed
Financing     IlI                       I
4143-CH   Financial         1990          130        Disbursed
Markets
*     Closed with disbursements of USS 90 million as a result of the Government's decision to not draw the second tranche of the
Policy Component.
3.2 PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM                  DATE PLANNED  DATE REVISED  DATE ACTUAL
Identification (EPS)                                    06-Nov-84          06-Nov-84
Preparation                       26-Nov-84                                26-Nov-84
Appraisal Mission                                                          21-Jan-85
Loan/Credit Negotiations          01-Jul-85                                01-Jul-85
Board Approval                    27-Aug-85                                27-Aug-85
Loan Signature                    25-Oct-85                                15-Oct-85
Loan Effectiveness                15-Dec-85             24-Feb-86          19-Feb-86
Loan Closing                      30-Jun-91             30-Jun-92          30-Jun-92
Loan Completion                   31-Dec-88                                30-Jun-92



3.3 LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY86   FY87       FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91          FY92    FY93
Appraisal         5.0    15.0      29.5    34.5    37.5    40.0
Estimate
Actual            5.4     4.0      10.8    18.1    26.5    34.9       35.9     40.0
Actual asf %   80.0%   26.7%    36.5%   52.4%   70.7%   87.3%       89.8%   100.0%
Date of First Disbursement     3rd Quarter, 1986
Initial Loan Closing Date     June 30, 1991
Actual Loan Closing Date       June 30, 1992
Date of Last Disbursement      July 22, 1992



3.4   PROJECT ESTIMATED (APPRAISAL) COST
Item                             IBRD    GOVT          Banks       Beneficiaries      Total
Capital Component                 36.0       8.8          4.0             12.7         61.5
Risk Capital Component             2.0       2.0          0.0              6.0         10.0
Technical Assistance and            2.0       1.5         0.0              0.0          3.5
Training Component
Total                             40.0      12.3          4.0             18.7         75.0
Percentage of Total              53.3%     16.4%        5.3%            25.0%       100.0%
3.5   PROJECT ESTIMATED (APPRAISAL) FINANCING
Source                          Local Costs    Foreign Exchange      Total       Percentage
Costs (US$ millions) _
Bank                                   0.0                  40.0      40.0           53.3%
Government                             12.3                  0.0      12.3           16.4%
Participating Banks                    4.0                   0.0       4.0            5.3%
Beneficiaries                          18.7                  0.0      18.7           24.9%
Total                                 35.0                  40.0      75.01         100.0%



- 22 -
3.6a PROJECT FINANCING: PLANNED AND ACTUAL
Source of Fmancing                              Planned Allocation                        Actual Allocation
(US$ Millions)                          (USS Millions)
Basic Project Costs                                      52.3                                    53.3
of which:
Bank                                                   40.0                                     40.0
Government (CORFO)                                     12.3                                     13.3
Other Sources                                            22.7                                    N.A.
N.A  - Not Avalable
Sources: Contratoria General de la Repdblica; Dictamen Sobre los Estados Financieros; Especiales del Programa de Inversi6n;
Prestamos 2613-0-CH; CORFO - BIRF al 31 de Diciembre de 1992." The Government's contribution is as of December
31, 1991; it declined to US$10.3 million by December 31, 1992.
3.6b LOAN FINANCING: PLANNED AND ACTUAL
Date/
Revised Amounts
Planned Amount           July 18, 1990    October 16, 1991             Actual
Loan Agreement                                                      Disbursement    Balance
Categories
--- (US$)--
1-A            10,000,000           12,250,000              10,990,000         10,989,082              918
1-B            10,000,000           18,420,000              21,050,000         21,183,666    (133,666)
2-A             5,000,000             1,030,000               1,030,000          1,033,080         (3,080)
2-B             5,000,000            3,490,000               3,170,000           3,169,902              98
3             2,000,000               10,000                   10,000              8,791           1,209
4-A             4,000,000            3,830,000               2,890,000           2,864,437          25,563
4-B              1,600,000               20,000                  10,000              14,204        (4,204)
4-C                400,000                     0                       0                   0              0
5             2,000,000              850,000                 850,000            736,838         113,162
TOTAL               40,000,000           40,000,000              40,000,000         4 000 000Q                 0
StRevision - July 18, 1990 - Since the Borrower was about to meet agreed obligations, reallocation of funds was approved to
allow a disbursement level of over 90% by December, 1990.Also the commitment date was extended to March 31, 1991 to allow
Government officials to fully utilize Loan funds.
2nd Revision - October 16, 1991 - At the request of the Borrower, on November 26, 1991 the loan commitment date was extended
from November 30, 1991 to March 31, 1992 and a modification of loan allocation was approved, assigning uncommitted amounts to
subloans of less than $100,000 for fixed assets and associated working capital. This extension was to allow the Borrower to
complete its program for financing Small and Medium industries under the new loan allocation.



- 23 -
3.7a  PROJECT RESULTS
APPRAISAL ACTUAL
ESTIMATE
Number of Participating Firms                1,763        1677
Employment Generation                        4,700       17,592
Incremental Production
(in 1992 US$ millions)                                     148
Incremental Investment
(in 1992 US$ millions)                                     100
Creation of New Firms                                      351
Cost of Investment per Worker
(in 1992 US$)'                              15,000       5,659
Firms with Technical Assistance               165          794
Component
Number of Trained Executives                  850         2,813
1.   Incremental Investment/Employment Generation
3.7b FINANCING THROUGH COMMERCIAL BANKS
Banks                               Number of Operations          Amount (US$ Thousand
Concepci6n                                   7                              492
Credito e Inversiones                        4                              422
Edwards                                      5                              498
Del Desarrollo                               1                               48
Intemacional                                 2                              168
Osomo y La Uni6n                             5                            1,317
Sud-Americano                                4                              845
Total                         ..                             j            ,3,787



- 24 -
3.8 STATUS OF COVENANTS
Section                         Description                       Status of
l_______________________________________________  Compliance
Loan
Agreement
2.02(a)    The subloans should meet not more than 60% of total    Complied with.
project cost.
2.02(b)    Establishes free limit of $25,000 for CORFO and        Complied with.
SERCOTEC subloans.
2.02(c)    Establishes free limit of $50,000 for Risk Capital subloans.   Complied with.
2.02(d)    Borrower to establish two dollar accounts in Central Bank,   Complied with.
Risk Capital Account and Special Account.
2.03(c)    Commitment date extended one year to December 31, 1989   Revised 10/13/88
Second Extension of Commitment date to March 31, 1991    Revised 7/18/90
Third Extension of Commitment date to November 30, 1991  Revised 9/13/91
Final Extension of Commitment date to March 31, 1992.  Revised 11/26/91.
2.04      Closing date is June 30, 1991                          Revised 9/13/91.
Closing date extended to June 30, 1992.
3.01(e)    Borrower to process promptly review of SERCOTEC        Complied with.
subloan applications, workplan or budget.
3.06(a)    Bank and the Borrower to undertake joint reviews with  Although the
SERCOTEC to determine whether rates of interest, fees,  covenant considers
and commissions applicable to subloans are adequate.  reviewing every six
Reviews should take place every six months.           month, the Bank
carried on the -
reviews once a year
because disburse-
ments proceeded
slowly.
4.02(a)    The Borrower should furnish to the Bank by April 30 four    Although with one to
audit reports: (i) CORFO's accounts and financial     two months delay,
statements, including SOEs; (ii) Special Account; (iii) Risk   the Borrower
Capital Account; and (iv) Accounts of the Risk Capital  submitted all reports.
Fund.
4.02(b)     Audit of SOEs to be included in annual audits referred to in   Complied with.
4.02(a).



- 25 -
Section                          Description                       Status of
l_________ ______________________________________  Compliance
Schedule 1    Bank resources to finance expenditures accrued up to one  Complied with.
hundred and eighty day prior to date of subloan application
receipt in the Bank.
Maximum subloan amount of US$500,000 for CORFO         Complied with.
subloans for fixed assets and associated working capital and
US$200,000 for CORFO subloans for free standing working
capital.
The Borrower to furnish to the Bank a statement that the  Complied with.
share of capital stock of a Risk Capital Fund subloan is
financed in equal proportions by Bank resources and sources
other than the Loan.
The Borrower to make available to the Risk Capital Fund  95% of risk capital
US$2 million.                                          component resources
have been reclassified
Schedule 2    Maximum Amount of US$100,000 for SERCOTEC             100% of export and
subloans for export related expenses and technology   technology develop-
development.                                           ment resources have
been reclassified.
Maximum amount of US$16,000 for microenterprise        Revised 10/13/88,
subloans                                               9/18/89, 7/18/90.
Maximum amount of US$50,000 for microenterprise
subloans.
Schedule 5    Project consists of four parts:                       Project amended to
(a) CORFO subloans                                    reallocate funds
(b) Risk Capital Fund                                 practically elimi-
(c) SERCOTEC subloans                                  nating CORFO's
(d) Technical Assistance.                              investments and
SERCOTEC's pro-
motion of exports
and technology
development.
Revised 7/18/90.
Establishes terms and conditions of subsidiary loans,  Onlending rates are
subloans, and investments.                            adjusted to reflect
market conditions.
Revised 9/26/86;
___________ ____________________________________   4/17/87 and 9/18/89.



- 26 -
`ection                          Description                       Status of
________                                                       Compliance
12 '-Oj iCt
e|ienent
.01(a)    SERCOTEC to carry out Part D (Technical Assistance) of    Complied with.
the project.
J.0] (b)    SERCOTEC to present to the Borrower by August 15 of    Complied with.
each year, a workplan and budget for the next coming year
for carrying out the technical assistance program.
2.02       SERCOTEC to ensure that procurement of goods, works    Complied with.
and consultant's services be carried out according to the
provisions of Part D (b)(ii) and (iii) of Schedule 5 of the
A                Loan Agreement and Parts I and II to Schedule 1 of the
Project Agreement.
2.03       SERCOTEC to present to the Bank all subloans according  Complied with.
to Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement.
2.05      SERCOTEC to inform the Bank of any condition which      Complied with.
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the
Project, or performance by SERCOTEC of its objectives
under the Project Agreement.
3.01      SERCOTEC to operate according to its Statues and        Complied with.
Statement of Policy.
3.03      SERCOTEC to ensure all subloans will be made in         Complied with.
accordance with the statement of Policy, the Manual and
Parts B and D of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
4.01      SERCOTEC to furnish to the Bank by April 30, audit      Complied with.
reports of its accounts and financial statements. The audit
should cover the SOEs.
;  ^,aiarantee
; rireement
.02 (b)     The Guarantor should furnish to the Bank by April 30, an    Complied with.
audit report to the Guarantee Fund, Administered by Banco
i   _________    del Estado.



- 27 -
3.9 USE OF BANK RESOURCES
___________________           Staff  Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle   Planned SWs  Revised SWs  Actual SWs
Through Appraisal                N/A           N/A                47.1
Appraisal through Board          N/A           N/A                2.0
Approval
Board Approval through           N/A           N/a                 4.9
Effectiveness
Supervision
FY86-FY90                                                       72.9
FY91                                 2.0          3.4            4.9
FY92                                 5.0          2.4            1.7
SUBTOTAL SUPERVISION                                            79.5
TOTAL SWs                                                       1:- -5



3.10 MISSIONS
Stage of Project             Month/   Number            Days in    Perform                            Outcome
Cycle                          Year      of People       Field      Rating
status
Through Appraisal            7/25-                  1           6               The Government's interest in promoting SMI's is growing,
Preidentification          7/31/84                                             that the policy framework is getting more conducive to SMI
development & that the economic conditions in Chile in the
coming years will be need considerable technical and financial
assistance.
The major issues foreseen in a possible Bank loan to SMI in
Chile were: (i) project justification; (ii) the scope for Bank
Identification             9/26-                  1            8               involvement and the availability of alternate sources of
10/4/84                                            financing; (iii) the probable executing agency for the project;
(iv) the most appropriate means of channeling such a loan; and
(v) the nature of the productive assets which might be financed
under an SMI project.
The strategy adopted in the proposed project would be to assist
the government in carrying out PROMEPI, its integrated
program for SMI development. More specifically, the project  w
would promote increased employment, output and productivity
in the SMI sector by providing SMIs with an integrated
Pre-appraisal              11/26-                 3           18               package of assistance including access to credit facilities on
12/14-84                                           appropriate terms and conditions, technical assistance linked to
the institutional needs of beneficiaries under the credit
program supplemented by training and supporting services.
The project would also strengthen management and technical
skills in those institutions which will provide credit, technical
assistance and supporting services to SMI. In addition,
important initiatives would be taken under the project to
promote SMI exports and to foster selected equity investment
in SMIs.
Appraisal through Board                                                         The pre-appraisal mission was able to carry out much of the
Approval                                                                        requirements for project appraisal. A delegation from
SERCOTEC, an executing agency under the project, visited
Washington between January 23 and 30, 1985, for the purpose
of completing this task.



Board Approval through       11/15/85               1                        1  Some of the conditions for the effectiveness of the loan (Policy
Effectiveness                                                                   statement and the manual for subproject preparation and
appraisal) had been discussed with the borrower and executing
agency. The legal opinions required by the Loan Agreement
and the regulations to be issued by the Superintendency of
Banks required to start operations of the modified Guarantee
Fund were still pending.
Operational matter were also discussed with the borrower and
the executing agency.
Supervision                  5/4-                   1          12            1  One of the major problems were coordination difficulties
5/16/86                                            between SERCOTEC and CORFO, originated at the
operational level of the latter.
11/13-                3                        1  CORFO/SERCOTEC were to: (a) implement agreements with
11/18/86                          5                two or more banks. Afterwards, it was to promote and
educate the banks on the procedures and requirements for
evaluation and processing of sub-projects; (b) organize a
seminar by a venture capital specialist to train the staff on the
Risk Capital fund.
3/16-                 3                        2  No commercial bank participation had been activated through
3/20/87                                            subloan discounting. While 4 commercial banks signed
4               participation agreements with CORFO/SERCOTEC, only one
operation had been presented for discounting. The mission
discussed with CORFO/SERCOTEC the need for establishing
a free limit for participating banks to encourage them to
become actively involved in the program
Subloan interest rates under the loan at UF +7% appeared to
be higher than the prevailing market rates. Therefore, this
made it necessary to review the Bank's on-lending rates in
order to ensure the continued competitiveness of this credit
line.
4/5-                  3                        2
4/14/88                                            The project was still lagging behind appraisal estimates and
9               progressing at a rather low pace. Commercial Bank
participation had been almost nil; in addition the mission
verified that some of the banks knew very little about the
program.



Supervison                   8/10-                 3           15            2  The following changes were requested by the Borrower (i) a
8/25/89                                            change in reallocation of loan resources; (ii) an increase in the
onlending rates of microenterprises sub-loans from 4% to
6.5% and all other loans from 6.5% to 7% effective
September 1, 1989 to reflect increases in market rates. The
amendment dealt with minor changes to the microenterprise
program, including an increase in the size of microenterpriso
sublons from US$21,000 to US$50,000 and financing of new
microenterprises.
6/24-                  1           3           2  The Bank held up the effectiveness of amendments to the legal
6127/90                                            agreements pending receipt of (i) 1988 audit report of the
Guarantee Fund; and (ii) an action plan to reduce loan
portfolio arrears.
It was agreed to reallocate funds to allow a disbursement level
of over 90% by December 1990. The commitment date was
extended to March 31, 1991 to allow government officials to
fully utilize loan funds.
3/4-                  2            9           2  The 1989 audit reports were present by the Borrower with
3/13/91                                            some delays. The Borrower informed that the 1990 audit
reporb would be ready by April 30, 1991. The Bank received
from the Borrower a copy of the external audit report on the
loan portfolio, which had been requested during the previous
supervision mission. The Borrower requested an extension of
the commitment date to 12/31/91 and of the closing date to
6/30/92. The external audit report on the loan portfolio
showed that about 8 % of outstanding loans were considered on
poor standing and 20% presented risks were higher than
normal.
3/8-                   1           6           2  Following submission of all required external audit reports and
3/14/92                                            a submission of a program by CORFO for improving loan
collections, the Bank approved the extension of the
commitment date to Nov. 30, 1991 and of the closing date to
June 30, 1992. Then on October 16, 1991, the Bank
approved the Government's request to reallocate all
uncommitted amounts of the loan to Category lB. On
November 26, 1991, the Bank approved to extend the
commitment date to March 31, 1992, leaving the closing date
unchanged. Although CORFO implemented a program to
entrust loan collection to commercial banks as recommended
by the Bank, it proceeded slowly given that it is considered
more advantageous to implement an integral solution for most
of CORFO's loan portfolio.



- 31 -
3.11 Key Project Data
US$ million
Apraisal  Actual
Total Project Cost                                    75.0
Credit Component                                 61.5
Risk Capital                                      10.0
Technical Assistance and Training                 3.5
Basic Project Costs (Bank plus Government)            52.3      53.3
Bank Loan Amount                                      40.0      40.0
Terms: Interest Rate                       Standard Variable Rate
Maturity                           15 years
Grace                              3 years
Commitment Fee                     3/4 of 1 % per annum
Relending Terms:
To Commercial Banks
Interest Rate:                             a) 5 % on UF (Monetary Unit of
Account to reflect CPI changes) for
medium-scale industry
b) 4% on UF for small scale industry
To Sub-Borrowers
Interest Rate:                             a) All except micro- enterprises 8% on
UF
b) Microenterprises same as
commercial banks.
Maturity:                                  Up to 10 years
Grace:                                     Up to 3 years
Currency:                                  Sub-loans denominated in UF and
payable in pesos
Time Overrun:                                   13 months
Borrower:                                      CORFO
Executing Agencies:                            SERCOTEC



- 32 -
Institutional Arrangements:                    SERCOTEC acted as technical
secretariat of the project in charge of
processing applications and executing
technical assistance; CORFO's
responsibility was to administering the
line of credit, supplying local
counterpart funds, approving, allocating
and collecting the subloans, and
channeling Bank loan funds.
Timetable of Key Events:
(a) Time to prepare the operation:             12 months
(b) Project prepared by:                       SERCOTEC with Bank assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:           September 1984
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission:            November 1984 and
January 1985
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:               July 8, 1985
(f)  Board Approval:                           August 27, 1985
(g) Signing of Loan/Other Agreements:          October 25, 1985
(h) Planned Date of Effectiveness:             December 15, 1985
(i)  Actual Date of Effectiveness:             February 19, 1986
(j)  First Subloan approved:                   March 1986
(k) Initial Closing Date:                      June 30, 1991
(1)  Actual Closing Date:                     June 30, 1992
(in) Last Disbursement Date:                   July 22, 1992



