CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1052 PH
Guarantee Agreement
(Fourth Development Corporation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1052 PH
Guarantee Agreement
(Fourth Development Corporation Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED NOVEMBER 12, 1974


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 12, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and Philippines National Bank (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed
to make to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement,
but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.0 1. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02
of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally


﻿4
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Guarantor and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the loan by way of a
lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Guarantor (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any assets of the Guarantor as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Guarantor to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank,
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan and in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect. The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "assets of the Guarantor" means assets
of the Guarantor or of any agency of the Guarantor, including the Central Bank
of the Philippines or any other institution performing the functions of a central
bank.
The Guarantor further undertakes that, within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories, it will make the foregoing undertaking effective with respect to
liens on the assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Guarantor is unable within the limits of the laws in force in its territories
to make this undertaking effective, the Guarantor will give to the Bank an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take any action which
would prevent or interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations


﻿5
contained in the Loan Agreement and with the performance by the Corporation
of its obligations contained in the Project Agreement and in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or
appropriate to enable the Borrower and the Corporation to perform such
obligations.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor, upon the request of the Corporation, may
exercise the option to provide to the Corporation insurance coverage against the
risk of differentials, in respect of any withdrawals from the Loan Account and
the interest payable in respect thereof, between the exchange rate between pesos
and the currency which the Borrower must repay the Bank under the Loan
Agreement and the exchange rate between pesos and the currency withdrawn from
the Loan Account with respect to Sub-loans committed during the period for which
such coverage is offered, and in consideration of a fee to be determined by the
Guarantor, and to be paid by the Corporation to the Guarantor over the period
of amortization of the Sub-loans covered. Such coverage shall apply only in respect
of withdrawals, and interest in respect thereof, in cases in which the currency
to be repaid to the Bank differs from the currency of withdrawal.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall make arrangements with the Corporation,
for the purpose, and in accordance with the terms set forth, in Section 3.07 of
the Project Agreement, and shall collect any amounts due to it under such
arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Representat,ve of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila
Philippines


﻿6
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By /s/ Eduardo Z. Romualdez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


