Report No. PID10235
Project Name                     MOROCCO-Social Development Agency
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Social Funds
Project ID                       MAPE73531
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
Implementing Agency
Address SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Agence de Developpement Social (ADS)
Address: 22 Rue Jbel Ayachi, Agdal. Rabat.
Contact Person: Mr. Najib Guedira
Director General - ADS
Tel: 212-37-779-771
Fax: 212-37-682-389
Email: ads@iam.net.ma
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 2, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 15, 2001
Projected Board Date             March 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Poverty, vulnerability and urban-rural disparitiesAlthough access to basic
services has improved in recent years, poverty and vulnerability
increased. Poverty increased from 13% of the population in 90/91 to 19% in
98-99 (or, from 3.4 to 5.3 million) and vulnerability (defined as those
who are at or below 50% above the poverty line) increased from 35% to 44%
during the same period. The wide disparities and gaps in social services
between rural and urban areas (or poor and rich areas) remain one of the
main challenges the country is facing. Morocco has very unfavorable social
indicators compared to lower-middle income countries with similar GDP.
These indicators reflect the huge disparity between urban and rural areas
in Morocco (for example: less than 15% of rural households with piped
potable water versus over 90% in urban households, less than 20% rural
access to electricity versus more than 85% in urban areas, 47% rural
female primary enrollment as % of school-age population versus over 80% in
urban areas).Lack of economic infrastructure in rural areasThe
unavailability of economic infrastructure in rural areas restricts rural
population from effectively benefiting from agricultural-based activities
or diversifying their sources of income. This is manifested in the lack of
markets, access to main roads (especially in rainy seasons when some areas
are cut off from the main roads) and weak infrastructure like irrigation
canals and water harvesting projects. This situation continues to fuel
rural-urban migration and increases the pressure on urban slum areas where
people are already living in very harsh circumstances.Potential demand for
Micro Finance (MF) that is much greater than the supplyDue to the
instability and seasonaility of agricultural income and the weak economic
infrastructure mentioned above, a lot of the poor and vulnerable groups in
both rural and slum urban areas are involved in micro enterprises to
increase and diversify their income. These micro entrepreneurs are in need
of both financial and nonfinancial services to support their activities. A
number of NGOs embarked on micro credit programs since the early 90s and



over the years developed sound programs reaching a significant number of
poor families in rural and urban areas. However, the current programs
responds to less than 5t of the estimated potential needs in this area
(Making Micro Finance Work in the Middle East and North Africa, World
Bank, 1999). Ineffectiveness of public programsUrban rural disparities
have been the focus of the government   in recent years. However, the
results have been limited in terms of better access to social services by
poor rural and urban slum population. There are many reasons for this:
Most government programs are single-sector interventions; Second, a
top-down approach characterizes most government interventions; andThird, a
very centralized approach is being used in delivering social services.
Involving civil society and NGOsThere is a need for innovative and
comprehensive approaches to be used by government agencies in tackling
developmental issues using multidisciplinary approaches, particularly in
rural areas. Approaches are needed that would allow local communities to
express their needs, participate in putting plans together and help in
their implementation. Experiences, across the world and in Morocco, show
that these participative approaches, beside being more cost effective in
the delivery of social services, provide a good starting point for local
ownership and better chances for the sustainability of these development
activities.Government strategyThe Bank is finalizing with the Government a
comprehensive social protection note which will form the basis for
establishing a social protection strategy. The note identifies the
specific target population and assesses the effectiveness of the
instruments of the social protection system. It provides specific
recommendations for each government sponsored program for the future (some
programs are recommended to be expanded, others to be phased out and
others are recommended to be restructured). In the Micro Finance area, the
government has been supportive of the excellent initiatives of a number of
local NGOs who have initiated successful "best-practice" micro credit
programs since the early 90s. The government issued a micro finance law in
1999 which regulate the work of Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) and has
not hampered the development of this industry since it did not restrict
the application of commercial interest rates to allow MFIs to cover their
operational costs. The law required that NGOs involved in MF and other
social sectors should have their MF operations separately registered (all
active NGOs in the country comply now with this rule). Micro savings is
still a gap that needs to be filled as NGOs are not allowed to mobilize
savings.
2. Objectives
The overall goal of the "Agence de Developpement Social" (ADS) is to
introduce new approaches and mechanisms for reaching poor communities and
vulnerable groups.The project supports this goal and its specific
objectives are to: a)Test new approaches for delivering social services in
a more relevant and cost effective manner by supporting the establishment
of a participative demand-driven mechanism that will reach out to poor
communities; and b) Better organize local communities to take charge of
setting development priorities and implementing development activities by
strengthening the capacity of local NGOs
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's main value added in this project is its accumulated experience
with Social Funds' type projects and in the human development sector in
Morocco. The Bank would provide "best practice" experience in two main
- 2-



areas; institutional aspects related to the design of the ADS (which has
already been going on in the dialogue with the government so far to
establish the agency and during the identification and preparation
phases). The other area would be related to different modalities of
community driven development and participatory approaches. The Bank will
provide lessons learned in other countries (especially regional lessons
from Egypt and Yemen) in terms of possible scope of activities for the
ADS, possible intermediaries to be used for sub-projects implementation,
different procurement methods to be used, etc.
4. Description
1- Community Development & social infrastructure (US$ 9 million): this
component will support sub-projects to enhance the social infrastructure
of selected poor rural and urban slum areas. 2- Support to economic
infrastructure and income generation (US$ 3.75) : This component will
support three kinds of activities; Sub-projects that enhance the economic
infrastructure in rural and urban slum areas. Examples are irrigation,
small markets and rural roads sub-projects; Sub-projects that finance
training and nonfinancial support to activities that are directly related
to creating employment opportunities or expanding existing micro or small
businesses; and Sub-projects that support the expansion of the existing
micro finance operations to new geographical areas. 3- Institutional
Development for Intermediaries (US$ 1.5 million): this component supports
and increases the effectiveness of the first two components by supporting
the capacity of ADS' intermediaries to identify, appraise and implement
sub-projects. 4- Studies and ADS Capacity Building (US$ 0.75 million):
this component will provide support to different institutional and
operational aspects of the ADS to learn from experiences with similar
operations in other countries. It will also help enhance the ADS
management and Board of Directors' understanding of specific technical
areas like micro finance. The component will finance studies that are
directly related to the operational activities of the ADS. The component
will also support the establishment of a comprehensive monitoring system
for the ADS to monitor its sub-projects.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 8.00
IBRD 5.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES 2.00
Total Project Cost 15.00
6. Implementation
The ADS set-up The ADS has already been established by law in 1999 as a
public establishment. The ADS' highest authority is Its Board of
Directors. The Board is headed by the Prime Minister and has Six
representatives from the Government (Ministers of Interior, Social
Development, Finance, Agriculture, equipment and trade and industry);
Three representatives from the private sector; and Three representatives
from the NGOs' sector.For the approval of sub-projects, a Sub-Project
Committee is formed as part of the Board. The committee has four
representatives from the Government (representatives from Ministries of
Interior, Social Development, Finance and Equipment), two from the private
sector and two from NGOs. The DG of the ADS manages its day-to-day
operations including recruitment of personnel, dealing with external
-3 -



parties and acts as the secretary of the Board. A draft operational manual
laying out the funding criteria for sub-projects and eligibility criteria
for intermediaries has been developed and approved by the Board of
Directors. The manual will guide the work of the ADS and help the
sub-projects approval committee decide on sub-projects.The ADS will start
with a small core group of staff in Rabat and the regions. A "statut du
personnel" for the ADS has already been developed and approved by the
Board of Directors and the Ministry of Finance. The ADS finalized the
process of recruiting the first group of personnel. Regional
representation will start with three-four coordinators, who are already
recruited, representing the ADS in different regions who will eventually
form the nucleus for regional offices.Implementation mechanismsThe ADS
works based on demand. The ADS embarked on a promotional campaign
covering all the country to inform national, regional and local NGOs as
well as local authorities of its activities and eligibility criteria. NGOs
have already started to submit sub-project proposals to the ADS for
consideration. Fifteen sub-projects are being appraised with local
communities and should be contracted by the end of 2001. Sub-projects will
be implemented by local NGOs/communities in collaboration with local
governments with several modalities used. In case of sub-projects with
relatively big infrastructure components, local contractors will be used
(with the ADS helping in procurement if needed).
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the ADS will be ensured as the government will be
financing its administrative structure as well as its investment funds
till 2004. It will then depend on how efficient the ADS will be in the
coming years in terms of reaching poor population and supporting different
kinds of development projects, in a cost-effective manner, to ensure the
availability of funds whether from outside donors or from the general
budget of the country. Another dimension of sustainability, is the
sustainability of sub-projects supported by the ADS. Communities will
contribute to the costs of sub-projects (with different percentages of the
cost depending on the nature of the activity financed). This has proven to
be a good way to ensure communities will sustain the facility/activity in
other parts of the world in similar projects and also in community-based
projects sponsored by NGOs in Morocco.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
There are two dimensions to lessons learned that are reflected in the
proposed design of the project; the Bank's experience in Social Funds and
its experience in Morocco. On the first one, lessons learned from global
social fund experience were already reflected in the design of the ADS
(like private sector and NGO representation on the Board, the ex post
financial control rather than ex ante, the separation of authorities and
responsibilities between the Board and the DG, etc.). During
implementation, the finalization of the Operational Manual and the
modalities of implementation mechanisms to be used are areas where other
lessons learned will be applied. At the country level, other lessons have
been learned, especially from the BAJ program, as follows; Deciding on
what to finance has to come from local communities. This point largely
affects the chances of sub-projects' sustainability. Some priorities that
may look clear to some development practitioners may not be so obvious to
villagers. The use of local consultants enhances the closeness between the
project and local communities and the technical quality of
-4 -



projects.Current arrangements for disbursement are lengthy and cause
delays. It was agreed with the Government that the ADS will be able to
directly send Statements of Expenses for replenishment to the Bank.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There is no foreseen environmental impacts for
components 3, and 4.Under components 1, and 2 the ADS will support
sub-projects in several areas. Some of these sub-projects will have very
minor environmental impact while others will have a more important one
(some of which are negative). The approach of dealing with this would be
for ADS, within the operational manual, to develop a simple checklist
within the sub-projects cycle (in component A) . This checklist will be
used to determine whether the sub-project in question does or does not
have major environmental impact. For projects requiring special attention
in dealing with environmental impact, consultants will be hired to develop
mitigation measures for the negative impact foreseen.TA is being
provided, using PHRD funds, to ensure that an environmental section is
developed in the operational manual that tackles this issue adequately and
to ensure that there is enough capacity in the ADS to identify the
sub-projects with potential negative impact. It will be assessed also if
projects could be categorized in advance according to their potential
environmental impact.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Yasser El-Gammal
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:202 473 2187
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 5, 2001.
- 5 -



