Report No. 23175
Report No: I073531 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/05/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: MOROCCO         Project ID: P073531
Project: Social Development Agency       Task Team Leader: Yasser El-Gammal
Appraisal Date: October 16, 2001         IBRD Amount ($m): 5.00
Board Date: March 28, 2002       IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSHD     Sector: SF - Social Funds
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The overall goal of the "Agence de Developpement Social" (ADS) is to
introduce new approaches and mechanisms for reaching poor communities and
vulnerable groups.The project supports this goal and its specific
objectives are to:
a)Test new approaches for delivering social services in a more relevant
and cost effective manner by supporting the establishment of a
participative demand-driven mechanism that will reach out to poor
communities; and
b) Better organize local communities to take charge of setting development
priorities and implementing development activities by strengthening the
capacity of local NGOs
I.A.3. Project Description:
1- Community Development & social infrastructure (US$ 9 million): this
component will support sub-projects to enhance the social infrastructure
of selected poor rural and urban slum areas. Support will be based on
demand and will cover areas from basic education and primary health care
to literacy activities and rural drinking water. Support will be extended
to various aspects from construction and training activities to helping
communities get together to maintain and operate the infrastructure.
2- Support to economic infrastructure and income generation (US$ 3.75)
This component will support three kinds of activities;
Sub-projects that enhance the economic infrastructure in rural and urban
slum areas. Examples are irrigation, small markets and rural roads
sub-projects;
Sub-projects that finance training and nonfinancial support to activities
that are directly related to creating employment opportunities or
expanding existing micro or small businesses; and
Sub-projects that support the expansion of the existing micro finance
operations to new geographical areas.
3- Institutional Development for Intermediaries (US$ 1.5 million): this
component supports and increases the effectiveness of the first two
components by supporting the capacity of ADS' intermediaries to identify,
appraise and implement sub-projects. The component strengthens the



institutional capacity for selected NGOs in Morocco. It will provide
support to local NGOs to build their capacity to assess local needs,
formulate, implement and operate and maintain local development projects.
It will also provide support to communities to better organize to take
charge of the O&M of social and economic infrastructure. This component
will also help the ADS to reach remote areas with no local structures by
contracting large and institutionally capable NGOs to act as ADS agents
in these areas.
4- Studies and ADS Capacity Building (US$ 0.75 million): this component
will provide support to different institutional and operational aspects of
the ADS to learn from experiences with similar operations in other
countries. It will also help enhance the ADS management and Board of
Directors' understanding of specific technical areas like micro finance.
The component will finance studies that are directly related to the
operational activities of the ADS. The component will also support the
establishment of a comprehensive monitoring system for the ADS to monitor
its sub-projects.
Components:
1- Community development & social infrastructure
2- Economic infrastructure and income generation
3- Institutional Development for Intermediaries.
4- Studies and ADS Capacity building.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The ADS will support activities throughout Morocco. Focus will mainly be
on rural and slum urban areas in poor provinces. The project will cover 8
of the 16 regions in the country, selected according to socio-economic
conditions. The provinces are: (1) Meknes-Tafilalet, (2) Fes-Boulemane,
(3) Taza-Al-Hoceima-Taounate, (4) Marrakech-Tensift-Al Haouz, (5)
Doukala-Abda, (6) Souss-Massa-Draa, (7) Oriental (East region), (8)
Tanger-Tetouan.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The B environmental category was selected in this case instead
of the FI category as the project is more oriented towards actual capacity
building of the "Agence de Developpement Social" although it will
implement sub-projects which will have a pilot nature and serve more as
"learning by doing" type of activities. Moreover, the institutional setup
in Morocco concerning environment is still weak as no actual regulation on
environmental assessments has yet been adopted.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
-2-



Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Except for component 4 which will be dealing primarily with capacity
building of the implementing agency (Agence de Developpement Social), the
other components may potentially lead to some environmental impact that
might appear minor for each individual projects but whose cumulative
effects can be substantial, particularly for the projects dealing with
water supply, sanitation, small dams and rural roads. However, it is
recognized that some of the sub-projects might have positive impacts on
the environment. The Borrower has agreed with the Bank provisions in the
project's design and location(s) that are defined --(1) Meknes-Tafilalet,
(2) Fes-Boulemane, (3) Taza-Al-Hoceima-Taounate, (4) Marrakech-Tensift-Al
Haouz, (5) Doukala-Abda, (6) Souss-Massa-Draa, (7) Oriental (East region),
(8) Tanger-Tetouan-- so as to ensure that OP 7.60 is not triggered.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
In order to mitigate these risks an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is
being prepared. The EMP will have the objective of assessing the capacity
of the implementing agency in the context (institutional and regulatory)
of the Kingdom of Morocco, and provide guidelines for mainstreaming
environmental concerns in the implementing agency's operations.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Consultation will be meaningful at the sub-project level as part of the
sub-project submisson requirements. Provisions to ensure appropriate
public consultation at the sub-project level will been integrated in the
procedural guidelines to be integrated in the Operation Manual. At the
project preparation level, consultation with concerned institutional
stakeholders has been conducted as they were informed of the preparation
-3 -



of the EMP and asked if they wished to have special requirements to be
included in the EMP or in the environmental guidelines.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      11/15/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   12/15/2001
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Available
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Available   Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Available    Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Available   Not Available
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Yasser El-Gammal         11/01/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Hocine Chalal/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Concepcion Esperanza Del
Castillo/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Sherif Kamel F. Arif     11/01/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Jacques Baudouy 11/01/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



