Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23947-MOR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF f5.8 MILLION (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
SUPPORT FOR THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
PROJECT
May 3, 2002
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 315t, 2001)
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
MAD1 = US$0.09
US$1 = MAD11.44
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADS            Agence de Developpement Social (Social Development Agency)
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DFA            Direction Financiere et Administrative (Administrative and Financial Division)
DG             Director General
EA             Environmental Assessment
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
ESW            Economic and Sector Work
FMS            Financial Management System
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
HD             Human Development
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IGF            Inspection Gdnerale des Finances
LSMS           Living Standard Measurement Survey
MEFPDSS        Ministere de l'Economie, de la Formation Professionnelle, du Developpement Social et
de la Solidarite (Ministry of Economy, Training, Social Development and Solidarity)
MENA           Middle East and North Africa
MF             Micro Finance
MFI            Micro Finance Institutions
MIS            Management Information System
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non Governmental Organization
NS             National Shopping
OM             Operational Manual
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development (Japanese grant)
PN             Promotion Nationale
PTA            Parent-Teacher Associations
QCBS           Quality Cost Based Selection
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
TA             Technical Assistance
TOR            Terms of Reference
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:     Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:    Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Yasser El-Gammal



MOROCCO
SUPPORT FOR THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     6
3. Benefits and target population                                                    7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                         14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         17
2. Financial                                                                        17
3. Technical                                                                        18
4. Institutional                                                                    18
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                           21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   23
2. Critical risks                                                                   23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   24



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                      24
2. Other                                                                         24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                    24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                   25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                     26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                               29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                    35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary      36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                  51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                68
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                              69
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                             70
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                       72
MAP(S): LBRD No.31436



MOROCCO
Support for the Social Development Agency Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: April 19, 2002                       Team Leader: Yasser El-Gammal
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie  Sector Manager/Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: P073531                        Sector(s): SF - Social Funds
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Theme(s): Social Development; Social Protection
(SIL)                                      Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 5.00 (es5.8 million equivalent)
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Currency Loan (VSCL)
Financing Plan (US$m):   Source                   Local       Foreign      Total
BORROWER                                            6.50         1.50        8.00
IBRD                                                3.20         1.80        5.00
LOCAL COMMUNrrIES                                   2.00         0.00        2.00
Total:                                             11.70         3.30       15.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO
Responsible agency: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
Agence de Developpement Social (ADS)
Address: 22 Rue Jbel Ayachi, Agdal. Rabat.
Contact Person: Mr. Najib Guedira - Director General - ADS
Tel: 212-37-65-54-65         Fax: 212-37-65-55-29          Email: ads@iam.net.ma
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY               2003           2004          2005          2006          2007
Annual                0.50           1.00          1.50          1.50         0.50
Cumulative            0.50           1.50          3.00          4.50         5.00
Project Implementation period: five years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OQ PAD Fo,l: F. M-.k 20W



2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall goal of the "Agence de Developpement Social" (ADS) is to introduce new approaches and
mechanisms for reaching poor communities and vulnerable groups. The project supports this goal and its
specific objectives are to:
a) test new approaches for delivering social services in a more relevant and cost effective manner by
supporting the establishment of a participative dermand-driven mechanism that will reach out to poor
communities; and
b) better organize local communities to take charge of setting development priorities and implementing
development activities by strengthening the capacity of local NGOs.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
* The ADS uses a participative and demand-driven approach to identify sub-projects.
* The ADS funds at least 100 sub-projects by mid-project and 200 by project end in different geographical rural and
urban slum areas.
* The ADS is reaching the poor and vulnerable.
* At least 200 thousand beneficiaries are reached by mid-project and 400 thousand by end of the project.
* At least 35% of project beneficiaries are girls/women.
* At least 70% of ADS funds are targeted to rural areas.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex l)
Document number: 22115-MOR Date of latest CAS discussion: May 7, 2001
The project addresses two of the four main core objectives of the CAS:
* To develop and strengthen participative and decentralized programs to reduce poverty and
fight exclusion, and
* To reduce vulnerability of the poor especially in rural areas.
The project also addresses three of the four key development challenges identified in the CAS;
Equity: by improving the poverty focus of public policies and expenditures;
Efficiency: by introducing new alternatives for the provision of social services that are based on
participation of local communities, cross-sectoral approaches and decentralization; and
Vulnerability: by providing short-term coping mechanisms for the vulnerable groups as well as
opportunities for diversifying the sources of income for the rural poor.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty, vulnerability and urban-rural disparities
Although access to basic services has improved in recent years, poverty and vulnerability have increased.
Poverty increased from 13 percent of the population in 1990/91 to 19 percent in 1998-99 (or from 3.4 to
5.3 million) and vulnerability (defined as those who are at or below 50 percent above the poverty line)
increased from 35 to 44 percent during the same period. The disparities and gaps in social services
between rural and urban areas (or poor and rich areas) remain one of the main challenges despite recent



3
improvement. Morocco has unfavorable social indicators compared to lower-middle income countries
with similar GDP. These indicators reflect the disparity between urban and rural areas in Morocco (for
example: 43 percent of rural households with access to clean water versus over 90 percent in urban
households, 49 percent rural access to electricity versus more than 85 percent in urban areas, 47 percent
rural female primary enrollment as percentage of school-age population versus over 80 percent in urban
areas).
Weakness of economic infrastructure in rural areas
The weak economic infrastructure in rural areas restricts the rural population from effectively benefiting
from agricultural-based activities or diversifying their sources of income. This is manifested in the lack of
markets, access to main roads (especially in rainy seasons when some areas are cut off from the main
roads) and weak infrastructure like irrigation canals and water harvesting projects. This situation
continues to fuel rural-urban migration and increases the pressure on urban slum areas where people are
already living in harsh circumstances.
Potential demand for Micro Finance (MF) that is much greater than the supply
Due to the instability and seasonality of agricultural income and the weak economic infrastructure
mentioned above, many of the poor and vulnerable groups in both rural and urban slum areas are involved
in micro-enterprises to increase and diversify their income. These micro-entrepreneurs are in need of both
financial and non-financial services to support their activities. A number of NGOs embarked on micro
credit programs since the early 1990s and have developed sound programs reaching a significant number
of poor families in rural and urban areas. However, the current programs respond to less than 5 percent of
the estimated potential needs in this area (Making Micro Finance Work in the Middle East and North
Africa, World Bank, 1999).
Ineffectiveness of public programs
Urban-rural disparities have been the focus of the government in recent years. However, the results have
been limited in terms of better access to social services by poor rural and urban slum populations. There
are many reasons for this:
Most government programs are single-sector interventions that fail to adopt a comprehensive and
integrated look at poverty issues in rural and urban slum areas. This is mainly caused by institutional
and coordination problems where, for example, those in charge of rural water do not communicate
with those in charge of rural electricity.
A top-down approach characterizes most government interventions in Morocco. Priorities of the
population are not seriously considered, decisions are not made based on local needs, and there is no
consultation with communities. Although the Government has been promoting civil society
organizations, especially NGOs, in the last few years, it still is not well-informed about very
successful NGO activities in rural areas. Because of this lack of information, government officials are
sometimes skeptical about demand-driven community-based approaches for delivering social
services.
A verv centralized approach is being used in delivering social services. This creates a very slow pace
of implementing development projects and causes many logistical problems which decrease the
effectiveness of project impact. Not only are the decisions on the types of investments taken centrally,
but the intermediaries used are also dictated with little consideration to actual capacity on the ground.



4
Involving civil society and NGOs
There is a need for innovative and comprehensive approaches to be used by government agencies in
tackling developmental issues using multidisciplinary approaches, particularly in rural areas. Approaches
are needed that would allow local communities to express their needs, participate in developing action
plans and help in their implementation. Experiences across the world and in Morocco show that these
participative approaches, besides being more cost effective in the delivery of social services, provide a
good starting point for local ownership and better chances for the sustainability of these development
activities.
The recent NGOs' involvement in provision of social services and social infrastructure in Morocco was
built on an old tradition of self-help and community organization and quickly became very strong.
Thousands of NGOs in the country (the official figures vary, but the number is well above 25,000) work
at the national, regional, and local levels. Although many of these NGOs are not very active, a
considerable number of them are very successful in mobilizing resources from several internal and
external organizations and implementing a large number of very successful development projects. In a
regional context, one can say that Morocco now has some of the strongest NGOs in the region in terms of
capacity and professionalism.
Government strategy
In the last five years, there has been greater focus on poverty reduction in Morocco. The Government has
initiated a number of programs and established a number of complementary mechanisms to directly target
poverty, and help create employment, especially in rural areas. This is most noted in the creation of the
Hassan H fund, the Mohamed V foundation, and the ADS.
The Bank is finalizing with the Government a comprehensive social protection note which will form the
basis for establishing a social protection strategy. The note identifies the specific target population and
assesses the effectiveness of the instruments of the social protection system. It provides specific
recommendations for each government sponsored program for the future (some programs are
recommended to be expanded, others to be phased out or restructured). In the Micro Finance area, the
Government has been supportive of the excellent initiatives of a number of local NGOs that have initiated
successful "best-practice" micro credit programs since the early 1990s. The Government issued a micro
finance law in 1999 which regulates the work of Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) and has not hampered
the development of this industry since it did not restrict the application of commercial interest rates to
allow MFIs to cover their operational costs. The law requires that NGOs involved in MF and other social
sectors have their MF operations registered separately (all active NGOs in the country now comply with
this rule). Micro savings is still a gap that needs to be filled as NGOs are not allowed to mobilize savings.
The Government of Morocco has entered into discussions with the World Bank for the last three years,
through the intermediary of the Ministare de l'Emploi, de la Formation Professionnelle, du
Developpement Social et de la Solidarit6 (MEFPDSS), on issues governing different aspects of Social
Funds. The World Bank facilitated a considerable transfer of knowledge in areas related to the
institutional and operational aspects of Social Funds to the Government. In August 1999, the
Government issued Law No. 12199 which established the Agence de D6veloppement Social (ADS). The
ADS, with the status of a public establishment, has the mandate of improving the living conditions of the
most vulnerable populations.



5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Poverty and vulnerability in rural and urban slum areas: characterized by low access rates to social
services and basic needs and many rural areas being remote and isolated. Most government programs
dealing with poverty are poorly targeted, single-sector programs that lack efficiency because resources are
not allocated on the basis of poverty. Most govermment programs also lack the ability to test new
approaches or expand others that have been successfully tried by NGOs.
A non-participatory urban dominated allocation of resources : the top-down, non-participatory
approach of resources allocation is biased to urban areas. This project will include NGOs in the decision-
making process and support small sub-projects that, by nature, favor rural areas.
A low, heavily agriculture-based income in rural areas: where rural populations are not using their
resources efficiently due to weak economic infrastructure and lack of technical and financial support to
other sorts of income generating activities.
The nonexistence of a systematic and sustained mechanism to help strengthen the capacity of local
NGOs: many valuable experiences by NGOs in Morocco are not being considered due to the lack of
experience-sharing among NGOs and the absence of a practice of supporting the smaller, less experienced
NGOs to benefit from the experiences of the larger ones.
Strategic Choices
Expanding the existing "Promotion Nationale" (PN) program could be an altemative strategic choice as it
supports rural infrastructure as well as generates employment opportunities. However, the top-down, non-
participative approach used by PN favors the support to the ADS.
Using the existing Mohamed V foundation could have been an altemative choice, but the mixed
developmental and charitable nature of this foundation would not have made it the appropriate vehicle.
The Hassan I fund may have been a host for the project but this fund lacks the institutional structure that
is needed for ADS activities and is a temporary fund. Placing the responsibility of the project in a line
ministry was not a possibility due to the multidisciplinary nature of the activity and the demand-driven
orientation. The project is also trying to introduce a private sector environment in a public agency which
would have been difficult in a line ministry. Furthermore, the project increases the funds allocated for
poverty reduction in Morocco, which has relatively low (by regional standards) spending on this area.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
In all the following project components, the ADS will work in collaboration with, and to complement the
work of, various line ministries, and other govermnent entities at both the central and regional levels.
Coordination mechanisms are already in place, and will continue to be developed between the ADS and
other entities and ministries.
1- Community development and social infrastructure (US$9 million): this component will support
sub-projects to enhance the social infrastructure of selected poor rural and urban slum areas. Support will
be based on demand and will cover areas from basic education and primary health care to literacy
activities and rural drinking water. Support will be extended to various aspects from construction and
training activities to helping communities coordinate to maintain and operate the infrastructure.



6
2- Support to economic infrastructure and income generation (US$3.75 million): This component
will support three kinds of activities:
*  Sub-projects that enhance the economic infrastructure in rural and urban slum areas.
Examples are irrigation, small markets and rural roads sub-projects;
*  Sub-projects that finance training and non-financial support to activities that are directly
related to creating employment opportunities or expanding existing micro or small
businesses; and
*  Sub-projects that support the expansion of the existing micro finance operations to new
geographical areas.
3- Institutional development for intermediaries (US$1.5 million): this component increases the
effectiveness of the first two components by supporting the capacity of ADS' intermediaries to identify,
appraise and implement sub-projects. The component would strengthen selected NGOs in Morocco by
building their capacity to assess local needs, formulate, implement, operate and maintain local
development projects. It will also assist communities in taking charge of the Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) of social and economic infrastructure. This component will also help the ADS to reach remote
areas with no local structures by contracting large and institutionally capable NGOs to act as ADS agents
in these areas.
4- Studies and ADS capacity building (US$0.75 million): this component will support (in the form of
studies) institutional and operational aspects of the ADS that will assist the Agency in learning from
experiences with similar operations in other countries. It will also help enhance the ADS management and
Board of Directors' understanding of specific technical areas like micro finance. The component will also
support the establishment of a comprehensive monitoring system to monitor its sub-projects.
Component                 Sector      Indicative  % of   . Bank-     % of
Costs    Total    financing  Bank-
""_              :':.''       :      ,5,       ...(US$M).  US$M  financing
1- Community development &                         9.00     60.0      3.00      60.0
social infrastructure
2- Economic infrastructure and                     3.75     25.0      1.25      25.0
income generation
3- Institutional development for                   1.50      10.0     0.50       10.0
intermediaries
4- Studies and ADS capacity                        0.75      5.0      0.25       5.0
building
Total Project Costs                 15.00    100.0     5.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   15.00    100.0      5.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The main institutional reform measure was the establishment of the ADS in 1999. The Board of Directors
of the ADS has been nominated and held its first meeting in April 2001. The Director General (DG) of the
ADS has been appointed and the sub-projects Approval Committee members have been nominated.
Meetings to determine the rules for sub-projects approval have been held.
The main institutional issues that need to be addressed during the course of the project are:
ADS autonomy: the Government needs to ensure that the ADS is working according to the rules and
procedures that are laid out in its Operational manual (OM), and that activities are targeted and funds



7
allocated in a manner consistent with the project's poverty alleviation objectives.
Participative demand driven approach: the Government, and the Bank through its regular
supervision of the project, should ensure that the ADS does not embark on financing activities before
a full active consultation process is followed with the concemed communities.
Coordination with line ministries and local authorities: the Government and ADS management
should ensure that full coordination is taking place with central ministries, their offices in different
areas and local authorities. This coordination will ensure that (a) ADS is complying with overall
sectoral policies, (b) no duplication of activities or over allocation for certain regions is taking place,
and (c) all O&M requirements for sub-projects funded by the ADS are agreed on beforehand with
local authorities and/or line ministries.
Creation of a flexible and responsive private sector orientation in the ADS: The Government
should ensure that recruitment rules of the ADS are competitive enough for it to attract personnel of
high caliber from the labor market. The current "Statut du personnel" of the ADS restricts it from
recruiting a certain category of personnel. Annual contracting is also hampered by the rigid "Statut."
The ADS is discussing this issue with the MOF to ensure that the ADS will have the flexibility to
attract the desired personnel. Also, prompt arrangements for hiring consultants will need to be in
place to ensure that the ADS will be able to respond to funding proposals in a reasonable time period.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project components will provide three main benefits to local communities:
Improved access to services: the ADS will provide support to social infrastructure and services. In basic
education for example, support can be extended to build an elementary school, rehabilitate an existing
one, train teachers or organize communities to take an active role in school maintenance.
Greater access to economic opportunities: the ADS will also support activities that enhance the ability
of the local population to make better use of available resources or create new income opportunities. This
will be achieved through the second component where support will be extended to build economic
infrastructures like irrigation activities, rural access roads and construction of small marketplaces. Under
the same component, support will also be extended to provide financial and non-financial services to the
economically active poor through new programs in partnership with the existing MFIs.
Enhanced community organization: the third project component will work to mainly support the first
two and will enhance the level of organization of local communities by:
*  Strengthening the capacity of local communities to assess their needs and jointly formulate ideas
into project formats that could be submitted to the ADS or other funding institutions;
*  Strengthening the coordination capacity of local governments with offices of line ministries and
communities;
*  Enhancing the effectiveness of the existing social services by organizing communities to take an
active role in the O&M of different development activities; and
*  Introducing new forms of community organizations such as parent-teacher associations (PTAs),
water user associations, local development committees and health commnittees in order to carry
out the projects identified by the communities.



Target population
The ADS will target the poor and vulnerable groups in both rural and poor urban areas of precarious
habitat. Priority will be given to the following populations:
* Populations living in remote isolated areas;
* Populations in rural areas with social indicators below the country's average;
* Populations with limited access to social services;
* Female-headed households;
* Poor population who are economically active;
* People with special needs;
* Unskilled unemployed; and
* Populations with no regular stable income.
The proceeds of the Bank loan will be used to support sub-projects in 8 of the 16 regions in the country
that were selected based on socioeconomic indicators, as follows: (i) Meknes - Tafilalet, (ii) Fes -
Boulemane, (iii) Taza - Al Hoceima - Taounate, (iv) Makarech - Tensift - Al-Haouz, (v) Doukala -
Abda, (vi) Souss - Massa-Draa, (vii) l'Oriental (r6gion de l'est), (viii) Tanger - T6touan.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over five years. The Government of Morocco will be the borrower and
the ADS will be the executing agency. A loan agreement will be signed between the Government and the
World Bank, and a project agreement will be signed between the ADS and the World Bank. The
Government will pass on the proceeds of the loan to the ADS as a grant.
The ADS set-up
The ADS was established by law in 1999 as a public establishment. The ADS' highest authority is its
Board of Directors. The Board is headed by the Prime Minister and includes:
* Six representatives from the Government (Ministers of Interior, Social Development,
Finance, Agriculture, Equipment and Trade and Industry);
*  Three representatives from the private sector; and
*  Three representatives from the civil society.
Representatives of the private sector were nominated through a consultation process that involved the
most representative entities of the private sector. NGO representatives were also selected through a
transparent and competitive process involving advertisements in the newspapers and a neutral committee
selection of the members based on objective criteria. The Board oversees the ADS and is concerned
mainly with policy issues. It approves major documents like the Operational Manual of the ADS, the
annual budgets and audits and annual work plans. It also approves major decisions such as opening
regional representations for the ADS.
For the approval of sub-projects, a Sub-Project Committee has been formed as part of the Board. The
committee approves sub-projects above the agreed-upon threshold of the DG (the Board of Directors
decided during its meeting on January 25, 2002 to set that threshold at 0.5 million Dirhams for now). The
committee has four representatives from the Government (representatives from Ministries of Interior,
Social Development, Finance and Equipment), two from the private sector and two from NGOs. The DG
of the ADS manages its day-to-day operations including recruitment of personnel, dealing with external
parties, and acts as the secretary of the Board.



9
A draft operational manual laying out the funding criteria for sub-projects and eligibility criteria for
intermediaries has been developed and approved by the Board of Directors. The manual will guide the
work of the ADS and help the sub-projects approval committee decide on sub-projects.
The ADS will start with a small core group of staff in Rabat and the regions. A "Statut du personnel" for
the ADS has already been developed and approved by the Board of Directors and the MOF. The ADS
finalized the process of recruiting the first group of personnel. Regional representation will start with
three coordinating offices to be opened during 2002. The coordinating offices will represent the ADS'
front line in dealing with NGOs to identify and prepare projects.
Targeting
The ADS will target poor communities in both rural and poor urban areas. It will build on the experience
of other Social Funds to use specific targeting mechanisms to ensure that those who benefit from its
funding are in the most need. Three main pillars will constitute the ADS' targeting mechanism:
Geographical targeting: the relatively advanced statistical database in Morocco will help the ADS in
targeting its beneficiaries. A set of social indicators (already determined) will be used for the
allocation of funds. Based on this set of indicators, the various regions of the country will be ranked
according to their population access to social services. Funds will then be allocated to the provinces
and "jmadt" within these regions.
Targeting based on the nature of sub-projects: another aspect of the targeting mechanism to be
used by the ADS is to partially rely on the nature of the eligible activities to be financed, which in
many cases implies that communities that request these activities are those with limited access to
social services. The operational manual focuses mainly on the basic activities to be financed by the
ADS.
Criteria-based targeting: the operational manual includes sectoral criteria to ensure compliance with
overall policies in the country and to avoid sectoral distortions. During the pilot phase, it will be
considered whether a prioritization points system for different sectors could be used.
Implementation mechanisms
The ADS will be demand-driven. The ADS has already embarked on a promotional campaign covering
the entire country to inform national, regional and local NGOs and local authorities of its activities and
eligibility criteria. NGOs have begun to submit sub-project prbposals to the ADS for consideration.
Fifteen sub-projects are being appraised with local communities and should be contracted by the end of
2001. Sub-projects will be implemented by local NGOs/communities in collaboration with local
governments with several modalities used. In the case of sub-projects with relatively large infrastructure
components, local contractors will be used (with the ADS helping in procurement if needed).
Procurement
A Country Procurement Assessment was undertaken by Mr. Maurice Gress, Procurement Advisor, and
issued in February 2000. The report pointed out that although the Moroccan legislation on procurement is
generally in line with the Bank's Guidelines, certain rules and procedures are not acceptable to the Bank,
as follows:



10
(i) The two-envelope procedure for the submission of bids for works and goods, and opening
those envelopes in two different phases, should not be applied. The two envelopes should
be opened simultaneously, without requiring the bidders' representatives to leave the
room. However, only essential documents that can easily be verified can be opened
before opening the financial envelope. These documents concern: the Declaration sur
l'honneur, proof of payment of taxes, bid security, and technical qualification certificate.
(ii) The procedure for hiring consultants through open competitive bidding should not be
used, instead a short list of consultants should be invited. In this case, the public opening
of the financial envelopes is conducted in accordance with Bank procedures following
completion of the technical evaluation report.
Goods, works and services will be procured in accordance with Bank's guidelines for "Procurement under
IBRD Loans and Credits" - January 1995 and revisions up to January 1999 and for "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" - January 1997 and revisions up to January 1999.
Under the project, procurement will take place at two levels: (i) at the central level, within ADS, for
activities related to components 3 and 4; and (ii) at the community level for sub-projects with community
participation included in components 1, 2 and 3. The bulk of procurement work will occur at the
community level to implement sub-projects which absorb 85 percent of the loan. An operational manual,
detailing procurement arrangements and procedures, has been prepared and agreed with the Bank. ADS
will oversee procurement management and will ensure that procurement procedures, funding and
eligibility criteria for sub-projects agreed with the Bank and described in the operational manual are
satisfactorily complied with.
Procurement undertaken for the sub-projects will be carried out by NGOs on behalf of the communities.
Procurement capacity and procedures of these entities vary widely, with a limited number having the
capacity to undertake large procurement or to operate within established procedures set out by the
country's regulations and/or by the financiers; others lack capacity, especially those operating in remote
rural areas. The procurement risk assessment is rated "average." Project design has taken this risk into
consideration by incorporating the following features: (a) a component to provide technical assistance to
develop and strengthen the institutional capacity of the intermediaries, including implementation and
procurement (Component 3); (b) the loan amount is of small value; (c) the size of the sub-projects is kept
small, with an average value of US$50,000 and not exceeding US$200,000; and (d) participation of the
communities in every stage of the procurement processes, which can constitute a good control element.
In addition, during appraisal, a plan of action was established with ADS to mitigate the procurement risk.
Details and project additional information on procurement arrangements and methods are presented in
Annex 6.
Financial Management and Flow of Funds
The ADS is a legal, financially autonomous public entity established by its charter on August 25, 1999. It
is subject to government regulations as regards staff rules, procurement, and accounting. Its
organizational structure is still being shaped. This would be the first project financed by the World Bank
that the ADS will implement. ADS operations fulfill two functions: one in which the Agency acts as the
"donor" of funds vis-a-vis its social partners, which implement the sub-projects, and another in which it
develops its partners' institutional capacity. Thus the ADS' own financial management structure and
procedures must address both these functions. The ADS needs control systems tailored to its own
operations as well as to its responsibility to build institutional capacities of local communities, NGOs, and
other social partners. This requires a decentralized structure in order to (a) be closer to the partners in
places where projects are being carried out; (b) practice flexibility and speed; (c) allow strict monitoring



11
and familiarity with the financial status of the projects and the risks incurred, together with the ability to
intervene at short notice; and (d) provide ongoing training of the partners in the various aspects of
execution, including integrated project management.
To this end, the ADS will introduce standardized, user-friendly procedures, appoint staff close to the
projects to ensure proper monitoring and training is provided as needed, and to put in place a set of
financial and operational controls, including a good reporting system.
A review of financial management at the ADS shows that, given the short time since it was established,
the Agency has not been able to set up a comprehensive financial management system tailored to the
requirements of its operations. The Bank's appraisal mission noted shortcomings in accounting. The
accounting records are not up-to-date and are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting
standards. The staffing arrangements for the financial management function are insufficient to cope with
the volume of work expected and the nature of decentralized operations. There are no clearly written
administrative and accounting procedures. In its present state, the financial management system does not
meet the Bank's minimum requirements in this area.
The ADS is committed to implementing a certain number of measures before the effectiveness of this
loan, with a view to ensuring sound financial management of its activities and taking on its fiduciary
responsibilities. Those measures are summarized in the Action Plan in Annex 6.
The measures referred to envisage strengthening the ADS' financial management structures by: (a) hiring
a full time internal auditor and additional personnel to monitor sub-projects in accordance with regional
needs; (b) introducing up-to-date accounting based on generally accepted accounting principles; and (c)
establishing an accounting and administrative procedures manual and an integrated accounting
information and reporting system for the Bank's reporting, as well as other donors and creditors. In
addition, the MOF will assign a full time financial controller, known as the Agent Comptable. The Bank
also discussed with the ADS its expectations with respect to an annual external audit; the recruitment of
auditors acceptable to the Bank for grants and loans, their terms of reference (TOR), and deadlines for
submission of auditors' opinions. The Action Plan also included the measures that need to be taken with
regard to audits. Audit TORs including the Bank's requirements, the contents and form of audit reports
were discussed and a final version was given to the ADS as part of the Aide-memoire of the appraisal
mission (documents are kept also in the Bank project files). As indicated earlier, ADS is in its first year of
operations and as such has not yet been audited. Its own establishment law dictates that it should appoint
annually an independent extemal auditor to audit its annual accounts. Moreover, ADS is subject to a bi-
annual a posteriori control from the MOF by a "Comite dExperts". Project accounts will be subject to
annual audits by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. In this instance, the "Inspection Gen&rale
des Finances (IGF)" will be retained as the auditors, as is the case in the majority of Bank-financed
projects.
Prior to loan effectiveness, ADS has agreed to set up an up-to-date accounting system, including the
installation of an accounting software, finalize its accounting and financial procedures manual, and
appoint independent extemal auditors acceptable to the Bank for the first year of operations according to
agreed TORs. ADS will submit to the Bank before loan effectiveness, the auditors' management letter
detailing the intemal control system based on the first year audit. A Bank mission is scheduled before
loan effectiveness. It will review implementation progress of the action plan and the quality of the actions
implemented. If actions agreed were not taken or proven to be unsatisfactory. The mission will agree with
ADS on remedial actions to be taken prior to loan effectiveness as needed. Funding for the action plan
will be provided by the PHRD and ADS own operational expense budget (case of Agent Comptable and
external auditors). ADS is committed to having an adequate FMS in place as soon as possible and before
effectiveness.



12
During its appraisal mission, the Bank discussed with the ADS its comments on the operational manual,
the standard agreement of sub-projects funding to include the missing financial management procedures
needed. Simplified financial reports from the social partners to the ADS were also discussed and drafted
as part of the standard documents.
The ADS will undertake an evaluation of each sub-project and the implementation capacity of each
implementing agency to determine their needs in terms of technical assistance and training in financial
management, procurement and project management. The NGOs will be responsible for keeping a
simplified cash accounting of the funds received from ADS and from beneficiaries contributions for the
implementation of the project. They will receive at least one training session before the start of the
project on the accounting system, the ADS's operational manual, and on the reporting requirements.
These social partners will be audited regularly as part of ADS overall annual external audit on a sample
basis. They will also be audited by the internal audit of the ADS based on their internal audit procedures
to be developed on a risk based approach. They will also receive training on particular issues as these
arise. Close follow-up will take place by the ADS's agents de suivi following the receipt of the monthly
reports.
A Bank mission will visit the ADS before loan effectiveness to assess implementation of the Action Plan
and the financial management system in place. If these prove to be unsatisfactory, the mission will discuss
further actions needed to strengthen the FMS before effectiveness of the loan.
Flow of Funds
The. Agency will continue to receive funding through a government annual budgetary allocation
transferred from the Ministere de l'Emploi, de la Formation Professionnelle, du Developpement Social et
de la Solidarite (MEFPDSS) budget.
The government allocation is transferred in installments by the MOF, once the MIEFPDSS gives
authorization in writing to the MOF to make the allocation to the operating and investment budgets of
ADS.
The funds are then transferred to ADS' respective accounts in the Treasury (Tresorerie Generale). In turn
ADS uses those funds in accordance with its work schedule to cover operating costs and to carry out
approved projects.
The same applies to funds received from the World Bank. Being a financially autonomous public entity,
the ADS is permnitted to hold one special account for government funding and one for IBRD loans. These
accounts will be directly managed by the ADS. As with other Bank projects implemented by the
Moroccan public sector, requests for recovery of advances and for reimbursements based on statements of
expenses will be presented to the Bank by the Budget Directorate of the MOF. A detailed section of the
special account's authorized allocation, ceilings and operations can be found in Annex 6. The special
account will be opened in the Treasury and will receive advances from the Bank at the request of the
Budget Directorate based on the ADS' request. ADS will provide supporting documentation to the
Budget Directorate which will, in turn, submit it to the Bank as needed. These procedures are described
in the Bank's disbursement manual and will be explained when the project is launched.
The ADS will submit quarterly project management reports to the Bank once the integrated accounting
and information system is up and running and in line with the (attached) schedule of activities under the
Action Plan agreed upon by the Bank and ADS management.



13
Diagram of the Flow of Funds
(=;               y         rK Sfi~~stly o
Ministry of Employment (Ministere de
I'Emploi, de la Formation
professionnelle, du Developpement
social et de la Solidarite)
f ~ADS 
Once funds have been disbursed the ADS would directly manage the two accounts in the Moroccan
Treasury in the MOF. Both accounts would be replenished via the MOF.
As provided for in the ADS procedures manual, ADS disburses funds for projects based on the contract it
signs with its partners, in tranches. These tranches must reflect the cash needs of each project as stated at
the time of the sub-project appraisal.



14
For their part, the social partners are required to submit regular (monthly) reports to the ADS on the forms
attached to the agreement and to keep the accounting documentation, supporting expenditures and
receipts.
The pilot phase
The ADS will initiate activities under a pilot-phase which will extend for 2-3 years. During the pilot
phase, the ADS will:
Establish its main core administrative structure in Rabat and the regions, as well as its main
systems and intemal procedures. The ADS will start with a small core structure which consists of the
DG, two technical officers, a financial officer, an MIS specialist, a communications officer, 3-4
regional representatives and the required support staff (all already hired). This structure will grow
based on the pace of project implementation.
Identify and support a number of pilot sub-projects in low-income provinces to learn from this
experience of what works and to acquire some knowledge for the operational phase.
Finalize the operational manual of the institution which will govern the functioning of the ADS. An
intemational consultant is supporting the elaboration of the operational manual incorporating lessons
learned in other countries with Morocco's conditions. The manual includes a detailed explanation of
the sub-project cycle, detailed sectoral criteria for sub-project approval, details of monitoring and
evaluation of sub-projects, standard forms to be used, etc. Feedback from the initial sub-projects to be
financed will feed into the operational manual, as well as shared experiences from other social funds,
especially those in Egypt and Yemen.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
It was decided that only small scale sub-projects will be financed to ensure that activities will have a rural
and poverty focus. The scope was also focused on supporting development-oriented rather than including
charity-oriented sub-projects, given the project objectives and the presence of other agencies that focus on
charity oriented activities.
Financing credit lines to create and expand small enterprises was considered to be financed under the
project given the high unemployment rate in Morocco and the political importance of the issue. However,
this activity was not included in the design (under Bank finance but the Govemment may decide to
include it under its own financing) for two main reasons: (1) experience in other countries with Social
Funds involved in small enterprise development has not been very encouraging and it is evident that
activities of that sort need to be sponsored under financial operations, and (2) the problems facing small
enterprises in Morocco are not strictly financing ones, but include issues related to skills, business
management, markets ...etc.- areas that the current project does support.
Financing credit lines to Micro Finance Intermediaries (whether existing ones or creating new ones) was
considered but was not included under the project since there does not seem to be an issue with regard to
access to funds facing the existing MFIs. On the other hand, issues related to MFI's capacities to expand
are addressed under the project. Creating new MFs would not be a viable option since a large number of
very efficient MFIs with continuously expanding portfolios exist in Morocco.



15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
* BAJ (Social priorities        S            S
program) - health
* BAJ (Social priorities        S            S
program) - Education
* BAJ (Social Priorities        S            S
Program) - Coordination
* Integrated Rural
Development for Mountainous
Areas
* Rural water supply and        S            S
sanitation
Other development agencies
UNDP                             * "The fight against poverty"
project
WHO                              The basic human needs
program  _
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There are two dimensions to lessons learned that are reflected in the proposed design of the project; the
Bank's experience in Social Funds and its experience in Morocco. On the former, lessons learned from
global Social Funds experience were already reflected in the design of the ADS (i.e. private sector and
NGO representation on the Board, the ex-post financial control rather than ex-ante, the separation of
authorities and responsibilities between the Board and the DG, etc.). During implementation, the
finalization of the operational manual and the modalities of implementation mechanisms to be used are
areas where other lessons learned will be applied (and have been reflected in the project design). Full
involvement of local communities from the onset of the sub-project cycle will be enforced. The World
Bank's operations and evaluations department's recent report on Social Funds also draws a number of
lessons learned around the world.
At the country level, other lessons have been learned, especially from the BAJ program, such as:
*  Deciding on what to finance must come from local communities. This point largely affects the
chances of a of sub-project's sustainability. Some priorities that may look clear to some
development practitioners may not be so obvious to villagers.
*  The use of local consultants enhances the closeness between the project and local communities
and the technical quality of projects.
The importance of coordination with and involvement of line ministries and local governments is an
important lesson learned both internationally and in Morocco. At the policy level, the Board of Directors
will represent a platform for the ADS to address policy issues and how the ADS can complement, rather
than compete with, existing government programs. It will also serve as a platform to ensure that the ADS
adheres to the sectoral policies in the areas in which it intervenes. The DG of the ADS will need to



16
continue to be very active in coordinating with other government agencies that are not represented on the
Board of Directors. At the local level and on a sub-project basis, local stakeholders (whether
governmental or nongovernmental) need to be fully involved from the inception stage of sub-projects. It
will be considered, during project implementation and based on feedback of the early sub-projects,
whether to create local committees headed by a representatives of the local governments to serve as ADS
focal points in their areas.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Following a long period of discussions related to various aspects of the functioning of Social Funds, the
Government indicated its full commitment to this operation. The following issues reflect government
commitment to the ADS:
* The government issued law No. 12/99 establishing the ADS. Some design elements of Social
Funds' "best practice" have been incorporated in the law (for example, NGO and private sector
participation on the Board of Directors and some exemptions concerning MOF's ex-ante review
of expenditures).
* The Government included the ADS as a main poverty reduction tool in its five year development
plan. A budget of DH362.8 million has been allocated in the government plan to support the ADS
during 2001-2004.
* Other government agencies have initially allocated other sources of funds for the ADS (US$10
million are allocated by the Hassan II fund).
* The Government is including the ADS as a priority in its discussions with foreign donors.
* The nomination of members of the Board of Directors of the ADS is complete and the first Board
meeting was held on April 3, 2001, where a number of important documents were approved.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's main value added in this project is its accumulated experience with Social Funds' type
projects and in the human development sector in Morocco. The Bank would provide "best practice"
experience in two main areas; institutional aspects related to the design of the ADS (which has already
been part of the dialogue with the Government so far to establish the agency and during the identification
and preparation phases). The other area would be related to different modalities of community driven
development and participatory approaches. The Bank will provide lessons learned in other countries
(especially regional lessons from Egypt and Yemen) in terms of possible scope of activities for the ADS,
possible intermediaries to be used for sub-projects implementation, different procurement methods to be
used, etc. Areas of special importance, based on experiences in other countries, include targeting
mechanisms to ensure reaching the poor, and sustainability of sub-projects. The Bank will also facilitate
an experience sharing exercise to take place by organizing a study tour for the ADS personnel to other
successful Social Funds and by including the ADS in the MENA Social Funds cluster. It is also foreseen
that bilateral cooperation agreements will be signed between the ADS and both the Yemen and Egypt
Social Funds. Collaboration will cover both the institutional and the operational aspects of the operation
of the ADS. The project represents a main component of the Bank's HD strategy in Morocco which aims
at increasing the efficiency of the social protection programs by reaching the most needy population,
reducing leakages of the system, and enhancing coordination and cross sectoral approaches.



17
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
[1 Cost benefit      NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
3 Cost effectiveness
[1 Other (specify)
The rationale for public financing of social services has been widely documented. First on distributive
grounds (poverty reduction) in the presence of imperfections in capital markets; second, given that the
social benefits associated with the consumption of these services tend to be higher than the private
benefits, thus leading the private sector to under-provide them. International experiences suggest thaz
Social Funds can constitute a cost-effective mechanism to channel public resources towards the provisior
of social services. In general, unit costs are considerably lower when compared to direct public provisiorn
mechanisms, thus generating positive savings even after accounting for administrative costs. Moreover,
crowding effects dominate over the potential substitution between Social Funds investments and other
public and private investments in the social sectors. There is also preliminary evidence that Social Funds
are more effective in targeting the poor. Finally, Social Funds can generate other economic gains, which
are more difficult to measure, linked to community development and social capital formation.
The economic analysis of the project elaborates on these issues in the context of Morocco. Nonetheless,
the focus will be on identifying mechanisms to maximize the social benefits resulting from fhc
implementation of sub-projects. These include minimum standards in terms of unit costs and guidelines
for the regional allocation of resources and the composition of the portfolio along broad projec:
categories. These guidelines could then be used to assign the points system in the operational manual. To
this end, a basic typology of investment projects will be developed. The latest national household survey
for Morocco is used to estimate access constraints to the type of services associated with these projects.
Given international statistics on relative unit costs per project and average number of beneficiaries,
exploratory modeling methods are used to assess the welfare gains resulting from alternative
compositions of the portfolio of investments and alternative regional allocations (appropriate welfare
measures will be identified).
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The budgetary impact of the administrative structure of the ADS is minimal. The ADS will keep a
minimal central structure, with small regional representation, that will not be a heavy burden on the
budget. The investments budget (i.e. funds for the sub-projects) has been budgeted for in the current five-
year plan by the Government and it is expected, that once the ADS is operational, donor funding will bq
available in considerable amounts. If the ADS, during the course of this project, proves to be a relevart
and cost-effective mechanism for poverty reduction, its annual budget will continue to be part of tie
social protection allocation in Morocco. Most of the O&M costs of the investment projects to be financed
are going to be absorbed by the communities. Coordination at the sub-project level will ensure that
contributions of line ministries for operations (e.g. assigning teachers to schools) are guaranteed prior to
embarking on the sub-project.
Fiscal Impact:
The project does not have any significant fiscal impact. No incremental taxes or subsidies would resu::
from the project. The increase in recurrent costs is marginal and will be more within a realignmeM.t
process of distribution of personnel. Counterpart funds are available and budgeted for the project.



18
3. Technical:
The project's participative and demand driven nature is very appropriate for Morocco. The feasibility of
this approach will be dependent on the level of independence given to the ADS during implementation.
Technical soundness and conformity with sectoral technical standards of the sub-projects are two main
aspects that will be monitored closely during project implementation. The quality of sub-projects will be
ensured by (a) the guidelines in the operational manual; (b) the utilization of specialized consultants in
identifying and appraising sub-projects; and (c) the provision of international technical assistance during
the course of the project. Periodic technical audits will be conducted to ensure these aspects.
4. Institutional:
Law No. 12/99 includes best practice elements of setting up social funds (please see above) but also has
the following shortcomings:
* The ADS was placed under the Ministry of Social Development. A better approach would have been to
have placed it just under the Prime minister.
* Financial control is carried out through a committee appointed by the Minister of Finance that looks
every six months (ex-post as an exemption from law 1/59/271) at all financial documents of ADS'
contracts. The committee has the authority to ask for any documents at any time to perform its function.
This whole process is separate from a regular annual audit of the ADS. This committee may represent a
hindrance to the ADS to be responsive and flexible - an issue that will be closely monitored during project
implementation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The main executing agency is the ADS which will contract with intermediaries (mainly NGOs) at
different levels to implement sub-projects.
* Capacity of local NGOs, which are the main development partners for the ADS, could be an issue once
the ADS develops capacity to reach out to remote rural areas. Institutional capacity building activities will
be supported by the ADS to better organize local communities to assess local needs and implement
development projects. The ADS will also contract with large and more experienced NGOs to help
develop the capacities of local ones and support the formulation of sub-projects.
* Selection of partner NGOs may cause a political problem given that some NGOs are politically
oriented. The operational manual has clear criteria for the ADS to follow for the selection of its
intermediaries.
4.2 Project management:
The following are the main issues that may hinder the operation of the ADS and recommended coping
methods:
Ensuring the ADS will attract staff of high professional caliber is a main factor for the ADS to
succeed. Two main issues can help: (1) using a transparent, competitive and open process for
recruitment; and (2) developing a competitive salary scale for ADS personnel. The ADS has just
finished the recruitment of the first group of personnel using a transparent and open process by
advertising in more than one widely distributed newspaper. The "Statut du personnel" of the ADS is
considerably better than that of the Government which will allow it to attract personnel. However, the
"Statut" being lower than the private sector may pose some problems for the ADS in hiring personnel



19
in some areas like information technology. This will be overcome by hiring some personnel on
contract basis, hiring individual consultants and consulting firms for technical areas where it will
prove difficult to attract personnel of high professional caliber.
Establishing a sound financial system and MIS: during the pilot phase, the financial system of the
ADS will be developed using local TA and an outline of the overall MIS will be drafted with a
temporary system to be used for the initial two years. PHRD resources are now being used to contract
a regional consultant with a similar experience with the Yemen Social Fund to support the overall
analysis of the MIS.
Separation of authorities and responsibilities between the Board of Directors and the ADS
management will also be a key issue that will ensure the smoothness and quickness of the ADS and
that will be closely monitored during implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
No major procurement is expected under the project. The ADS will mainly finance sub-projects of small
value (maximum size of sub-project is US$ 200,000 as per the operational manual) that will involve small
works and goods contracts. Procurement will take place at the sponsoring agency/intermediary level and
will include small works for social infrastructure (which may be done using local contractors or by
contracting communities directly), and goods for building materials in cases where communities will be
contracted directly.
* Capacity of local NGOs and community groups may be an issue particularly in remote areas. Technical
assistance will be provided by the ADS as part of its support to local NGOs and community groups. This
TA will be provided by hiring individual consultants to support intermediaries or by having a larger and
more capable NGO support procurement activities for smaller ones.
* Selection of consultants will be mainly done at the ADS level for work related to institutional aspects of
the ADS (like the development of the MIS) and Quality cost based selection (QCBS) will be used when
IBRD money is involved (it is expected that most TA will be financed out of government or grant funds).
4.4 Financial management issues:
The aforementioned Action Plan comprises measures designed to mitigate the financial management risks
identified during the appraisal mission. Although the Bank has not conducted a Financial Accountability
Assessment in Morocco, the country risk is considered negligible given that ADS has financial autonomy,
in addition to the existence of strict regulations governing this kind of entities (strict public accounting
rules, in addition to an internal control by a financial controller appointed by the MOF, and the existence
of a committee of experts that examines the ADS's operations a posteriori every six months).
There are however, three potential risk areas, namely:
Disbursements: The risk here could stem from (a) delays by MOF personnel in presenting the
disbursement requests to the Bank and/or, (b) failure to disburse the Government's counterpart
tranches on time. These aspects have been discussed with officials in the MOF who have confirmed
that ADS requests for disbursements will be processed within a week of being received by the
Ministry. It is, therefore, important that the ADS manage its cash needs properly, plan ahead, and
present its requests for disbursements ahead of time to ensure that it has the liquidity it requires on
time.



20
Risk inherent in the project: This could arise out of the lack of experience of the social partners,
especially local communities, with project management and simplified bookkeeping. This risk is
mitigated by the fact that the ADS will provide training for all the social partners in project
management, including financial management and procurement.
Risk related to insufficient management capacity at ADS. This risk may appear if the volume of
activity increases before the ADS organizational structure is able to administer it. This structure will,
however, be strengthened gradually as the ADS' workload increases and in accordance with regional
needs. During supervision, the Bank will ensure that a sufficient capacity is in place to manage the
level of activity reached at any time.
5. Environmental:   Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) preparation (including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment
emerging from this analysis.
Except for component 4 which will deal primarily with capacity building of the ADS, other components
could potentially have some environmental impact that might appear minor for each individual sub-
projects, but whose cumulative effects might be substantial, particularly for the sub-projects dealing with
water supply, sanitation, small dams and rural roads. It is recognized however that some of the sub-
projects might have positive impacts on the environment. In order to mitigate these risks an EMP was
designed during project preparation. This EMP, besides assessing the environrmental context within the
country and within the Agency, provides means for strengthening the capacity of the Agency to
mainstream environmental concems in its operations. A set of environmental guidelines/procedures for
mainstreaming environmental concems in the implementing agency's operations has also been prepared.
Due to the nature of this project, consultation at the early stages will be essentially with other institutional
stakeholders as the Ministry in charge of Environmental protection. The guidelines that will be included
in the Agency's operational manual include procedures for stakeholder consultation.
The EMP has been disclosed in the country in a manner acceptable to the Bank and has been disclosed
through the InfoShop of the Bank.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP (a) describes the institutional and regulatory framework with regards to environmental
protection; (b) assesses the capacity of the implementing agency to conduct the necessary actions in order
to mitigate environmental impacts and (c) outlines the procedures to be implemented in order to ensure
proper screening of the sub-projects as well as supervision and monitoring.
In order to ensure implementation of the said measures, they will be translated into procedural
requirements that will be integrated in the implementing agency's operational manual.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 11/15/2001
At this date, the EMP is available, as well as the procedural guidelines to be integrated in the operational
manual.



21
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?  Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultation will be meaningful at the sub-project level as part of the sub-project submission
requirements. Provisions to ensure appropriate public consultation at the sub-project level will be
integrated in the procedural guidelines to be integrated in the Operational Manual. At the project
preparation level, consultation with concerned institutional stakeholders has been conducted as they were
informed of the preparation of the EMP and asked if they wished to have special requirements to be
included in the EMP or in the environmental guidelines.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMP includes explicitly appropriate guidance for proper supervision and monitoring together with
the identification of responsible parties and indicators against which performance of the project will be
evaluated.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The ADS will meet its primary development objectives by targeting the benefits of assistance to the
poorest groups of the Moroccan population by strengthening the local capacities to form efficient and
representative organizations, and to carry out, through local associations or other organizations, a better
delivery of services to meet the identified needs of the population. This will be done by (i) reaching out to
remote rural areas with social indicators worse than the country's average, as well as urban slum areas;
and (ii) ensuring that both men and women of vulnerable populations have a fair opportunity to express
their needs and demands during identification of sub-projects. The ADS will streamline gender issues in
its operation and continually monitor the beneficiaries of the sub-projects (both men and women) and
establish clear indicators to identify who is benefiting.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The concept for the ADS and for this project is based on community participative development. Local
NGOs will partner with local communities, and in many cases may join with the community to form
associations. These associations will be integrally involved at all stages of sub-projects from
identification to evaluation. Individual members of communities will also participate-mainly during sub-
project formulation - through individual interviews, focus group meetings, and other forms of interaction.
Communities will also be directly involved in sub-project implementation (either by using community
resources to implement directly or managing the contracting out to an individual local contractor). NGOs
have been heavily consulted during the identification and preparation of the project. Workshops and
meetings were held with a large number of national, regional and local NGOs to get their feedback on
ADS' proposed scope of activities, procedures for submitting proposals and the kind of help NGOs need
to be able to sponsor activities with the ADS - all of which is reflected in the project design.
The project will also involve local elected authorities at all stages of sub-projects. Contracts will include
more than one party to ensure cooperation and collaboration amongst all parties concerned (a primary
school project, for example, can be contracted with an NGO to rehabilitate/conduct the extension of a
school where the local education office commits the teacher, the local authority commits the land and the



22
elected "commune" commits the maintenance through a parents association to be formed). ADS has also
begun holding regular consultations with other donors active in the same areas as the ADS to coordinate
activities and learn from other experiences in Morocco.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project involves NGOs at all levels. At the policy level, three NGO representatives sit on the Board
of Directors of the ADS and two are part of the sub-projects Approval Committee. These representatives
are involved in the decision making process for issues related to main policies of the ADS, as well as
approving individual sub-projects. At the operational level, the ADS will use NGOs and other forms of
community organizations as intermediaries for sub-project implementation. During preparation, the ADS
embarked on a promotional campaign by conducting several regional and national workshops to
familiarize local NGOs with its objectives and operating procedures.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The involvement of local communities and NGOs is the main arrangement to ensure that the project
achieves its social development outcomes. Also the nature of the ADS with NGO representation on its
Board of Directors will help ensure the social development outcomes. During the pilot phase, the ADS
will develop appropriate organizational arrangements to assess the development outcomes. Towards the
end of the project, an impact study will also be conducted to assess the social development outcomes and
impact.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
* The project expects (through partnerships between local communities and local organizations or
NGOs) to train the beneficiaries in monitoring their sub-projects and evaluating their own progress and
benefits. By so doing the proceeds of the ADS will be more certain to reach the poor and most vulnerable
to ensure that there are no exclusions based on gender, age, status or other reasons.
* Technical audits: will be conducted annually during supervision missions to ensure that the OM is being
complied with in terms of targeting.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
_  Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                 Yes
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                         No
_  Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                          No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                            No
_  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                         No
_  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                No
_  Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                    No
_  Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)         No
_  Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7. 0)*              No



23
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The only safeguard policy triggered in this project is the Policy relative to environmental assessment.
Compliance has been ensured through the preparation of an EMP and a comprehensive set of
environmental procedures and guidelines that have been integrated in the operation manual of the agency.
The project areas covered are listed under section C3 above and do not involve any disputed areas.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the ADS will be ensured as the Govermment will be financing its administrative
structure as well as its investment funds until 2004. Sustainability will then depend on how efficient the
ADS will be in the coming years in terms of reaching poor population and supporting various kinds of
development projects, in a cost-effective manner, to ensure the availability of funds whether from outside
donors or the general budget of the country. The ADS will have to develop a market niche for itself
during the course of this project. This could be its ability to reach very remote communities and/or its
ability to reduce unit costs and duration of implementation of specific development activities.
Historically, donors have continued to support structures like the ADS once the Agency proves its
efficiency and cost-effectiveness.
Another dimension of sustainability is the individual sustainability of sub-projects supported by the ADS.
Communities will contribute to the costs of sub-projects (with different percentages of the cost depending
on the nature of the activity financed). This has proven to be a good way to ensure communities will
sustain the facility/activity in other parts of the world in similar projects and also in community-based
projects sponsored by NGOs in Morocco. Communities will also take an active role in operations and
maintenance of sub-projects through structures like PTAs in education projects, water users' associations
in water, and health committees in health. The ADS will support capacity building activities to ensure that
local communities and NGOs are better organized to sustain the services to be provided.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk:Rating           Rlsk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The sub-project approval committee        S        During its last mission, the Board of Directors
becomes a bottleneck for the ADS.                  decided to authorize the DG to approve sub-
projects valued at under DH500.000
The "Statut du personnel" of the ADS      S        The ADS is discussing the issue with MOF to
does not enable it to attract personnel of         allow the ADS more flexibility on contracting
high professional caliber.                         personnel. This issue is highlighted in the
appraisal mission's aide memoire.
Local communities are not willing to     M         Early involvement of local communities in
operate and maintain the infrastructure            sub-project identification and provision of
provided.                                          capacity building and technical assistance to
local NGOs will be sought.



24
ilsk                    sk k-Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
Local govermments and line ministries do   S        Regular coordination by the ADS with line
not provide resources for post sub-                 ministries and local governments at both the
projects operations.                                policy and sub-projects level will be sought.
From Components to Outputs
ADS becomes subject to political           S        The operational manual would lay out the
pressure to target certain areas.                   criteria for the funding and selection of sub-
projects. The Board of Directors and sub-
projects approval committee would use the
operational manual as a guideline.
Line ministries and local governments do  M         ADS would continuously brief and update line
not cooperate effectively with ADS.                 ministries and local governments and to deal
with them as a partner rather than a
competitor.
Communities are not willing to enter into  N        ADS would work as the catalyst for this
partnerships with local authorities and             process.
contribute to the costs of sub-projects.
Overall Risk Rating                        S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
A common possible controversial issue for similar projects has been the possibility of political pressure
on the ADS management to target certain geographical areas or support specific projects. Experience
suggests that sticking to the criteria in the operational manual and using an objective approach to targeting
can best mitigate this risk.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i) Establishment of a chart of accounts for ADS operations;
(ii) Acquisition of an accounting software;
(iii) Finalization of the Operational Manual.
2. Other
None.
H. Readiness for Implementation
L .a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.



25
0 2.The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
i 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
g 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
YasserEl; , 
Tasker TE11ammLeader             S        Bdi or                  Chr    i'an relvoie
Task Team Leader                 Sector Director                  Cou     ry Director



26
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
Hierarchy of          Key Performance         Data Collection      Critical Assumptions
Objectives              Indicators               Strategy
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank
___ __ __ __ ___ __ __ __ ___ __ __ _ _ _  M isslon)
To develop and          A decrease in           Periodic ESW in         An economic
strengthen              absolute poverty and    social protection (i.e.  framework that is
participative and       vulnerability           poverty                 conducive to poverty
decentralized           (measured as those      assessments).           alleviation coupled
programs to reduce      who are at or below     Periodic LSMS           with a sustained
poverty and             50% above the           surveys done by the    level of economic
vulnerability and       poverty line).          Observatoire.           growth.
fight exclusion in      Better access to                                Government to
rural and urban areas.  social and economic                             continue its current
infrastructure in                              focus on social
rural areas.                                    sectors by increased
resources allocation.
Project Development     Outcome / Impact        Project reports:       (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
To develop a relevant,   Identification of sub-   Project progress        ADS is given the
cost effective and        projects is achieved   reports.                 operational
participative approach   through a                                        independence
to delivering social      participative and                              needed.
services.                 demand-driven
approach.
To better organize      The ADS reaches the     Technical audit of the  Local communities
local communities to     poor and vulnerable.    ADS.                   and governments
take charge of their                                                    collaborate to operate
own development                                                          and maintain the
activities.                                                             infrastructure funded
by the ADS.
100 sub-projects        Supervision missions.   Local communities
funded by mid project    Beneficiaries          adopt inclusive
and, 200 by project     assessment.             approaches to make
end in different                                sure all groups are
geographical rural and                          benefiting from social
urban slum areas.                               services provided.
Beneficiaries reach at
least 200 thousand by
mid project and 400
thousand by the end
of the project.
At least 35% of
project beneficiaries
are female.
At least 70% of ADS
funds are targeted to
rural areas...



27
Hierarchy of          Key Performance          Data Collection       Critical Assumptions
Objectives               Indicators               Strategy
Output from each         Output Indicators:      Project reports:         (from Outputs to
Component:                                                                Objective)
To develop small-        ADS social              Technical audit of     The sub-projects
scale community         infrastructure unit      the ADS.               approval committee
development sub-         cost is less than                              does not represent a
projects, in a cost      similar non-ADS                                 bottleneck for the
effective manner,        projects.                                       ADS.
that provide local
communities greater                                                     The "statut du
access to various                                                       personnel" allows the
social services.                                                        ADS to hire personnel
of high caliber.
To develop small-        ADS economic            Mid term review.         Communities are
scale economic          infrastructure and MF                             willing to organize to
infrastructure and       sub-projects unit cost                           operate and maintain
micro finance sub-       is less that similar                            the infrastructure
projects developed, in   projects.                                        provided.
a cost effective
manner, that enhance
income opportunities
for the local
population.
Better organized local   ADS uses more local     Implementation           Local governments
communities to assess    NGOs than national      completion report.      and line ministries
their development        ones to sponsor its                              provide resources for
needs and maintain       activities                                       post sub-projects
infrastructure.                                                           operations.
Enhance ADS              Facilities well         Beneficiary
capacity.                operated and            assessments to check
maintained.             the effectiveness of
the targeting
mechanisms used.
Sub-projects valued at
US$ 5 million
annually by project
end are processed.



28
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy    Critical Assumptions
Indicators
Project Components / Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
components:                component)                                          Outputs)
1. Community development  1. US$ 3.00 million            Quarterly progress         ADS is not subject to
and social infrastructure                                reports.                   political pressure to
target certain areas.
Quarterly disbursement
reports.                  Line ministries and
local governments
Bi-annual supervision     cooperate effectively
reports.                  with ADS.
Annual audit reports.     Communities willing to
enter into partnerships
with local authorities
and contribute to costs
of sub-projects.
2.Support to economic      2. US$ 1.25 million
infrastructure and income
generation
3. Institutional development  3. US$ 0.5 million
for intermediaries
4. Studies and ADS capacity  4. US$ 0.25 million
building



29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$9.00 million
Community development & social infrastructure:
This component will support sub-projects to enhance the social infrastructure of several poor rural and
urban slum areas. Support will cover areas from basic education and primary health care to literacy
activities and rural drinking water. Support will be extended to various aspects from construction and
training activities to helping communities organize in order to operate and maintain the necessary
infrastructure. Implementation will mainly be carried out in partnership with local communities
represented by local NGOs or CBOs. Communities will be heavily involved at all stages of sub-projects
and will contribute to sub-projects costs whether in cash or in kind. Local consultants will be used by the
ADS to support communities appraise sub-project and later implement the activities.
Allocation of resources over sectors: since this operation is demand driven, it is not possible to indicate
up front what percentage of funds will support which activities/sectors. Needs of local communities vary
according to many factors such as distance from the closest urban center, proximity of the water sources,
the dominant economic activity in the community, etc. Experience with other social funds indicates that
requests for education and health activities are the greatest. However, given the considerable recent
expansion of basic education in Morocco, it is not foreseen that education will represent the first priority
for the majority of communities. Based on the field work and promotional campaigns done during
preparation, it is foreseen that rural water, electrification and roads will likely represent the priority for a
large number of communities.
Funds allocation for geographical areas: as the project is trying to deal with the urban bias in allocation
of resources and development projects, it has a rural focus. At least 70% of the funds will be targeted to
rural areas. Rural and urban will be defined as per the administrative system in the country. The ADS is
not going to start from scratch to draw a poverty map for Morocco. There does exist a relatively advanced
database for social conditions and indicators in the country (largely supported by the Bank under the
Social Priorities Program). The Ministries of planning and social development have produced, in
coordination with the UNDP, a comprehensive ranking for the various provinces in the country using a
mix of social indicators like enrollment rates in primary education, infant mortality, access to drinking
water, etc. In most provinces this ranking extends to the lowest level of the administrative structure. The
ADS will use this ranking to allocate resources to geographical areas.
Stimulating demand for ADS services: it is foreseen that the requests/proposals that the ADS will
receive during the pilot phase will exceed its administrative capacity to process sub-projects. However, it
is also expected, based on experiences elsewhere, that the most remote and poorest regions are not the
ones to come forward first. This is mainly attributed to the fact that community structures in these regions
are always weak, if at all present, and they learn last about initiatives like the ADS. To deal with this
problem, the ADS, during its pilot phase, will focus its field visits and promotional activities to areas that
are ranked very poor and where no project requests/proposals were received. This may be done directly
by ADS personnel, local consultants, or through larger NGOs whose services will be rendered by the
ADS to stimulate demand in the poorest and most remote areas.



30
Provision of social services to special groups: During the pilot phase, the ADS will also pilot social
services activities targeting special groups, including the disabled, street children, and women in difficult
circumstances. Activities will aim at empowering these groups and integrating them into society.
Employment generation: the main objectives of the ADS is the enhancement of the quality of life of the
poor. It is not an employment agency nor a public works program. Employment generation will be a
positive externality to some of the activities the ADS will do but not a criteria on which activities will be
selected.
Coordination and partnerships: the ADS will coordinate on a regular basis with line ministries,
development agencies and local governments. Policy issues will be coordinated at the central level while
project specific issues will be coordinated at the regional level. For example, if the ADS receives a
number of requests for rural water sub-projects from a certain area, it will centrally coordinate with
ONEP or the ministry of equipment, depending on whose responsibility it is, to determine priorities based
on the severity of water shortages. At the local level., this coordination will extend to examine what water
sources are available and what contribution the local rural water office can provide. Sub-projects will then
be carried out through a series of partnerships, either with community groups directly or through an NGO
that is active in the area.
Project Component 2 - US$3.75 million
Support to economic infrastructure and income generation:
Funds allocation and allocation of resources to the sub-component will follow the same trend as the first
component. This component will support three kinds of activities:
Sub-projects that enhance the economic infrastructure in rural and urban slum areas: Examples
are irrigation, small markets and rural roads. Under this sub-component, the ADS will finance sub-
projects that enhance economic opportunities for local communities. Many communities in Morocco,
whether with a typical agricultural based economy or with special hand craft products, face the
problem of being isolated from the nearest urban center or the closest market. This phenomena, in
many cases, can be dealt with by financing srmall rural access roads or in other cases, financing the
construction of a local market for a cluster of villages in a central location. Water harvesting and
irrigation activities are other examples of sub-projects that can enhance the ability of local
communities to mange their resources. In urban slum areas, other sorts of activities under this sub-
component are also relevant. Daycare centers for children under school age in areas where women
have access to some formal employment can be the sort of sub-projects that can free up time for
women to seek employment and, at the same time, prepare the child for formal schooling.
Sub-projects that finance training and non-financial support to activities that are directly
related to creating employment opportunities: the small and micro enterprises sectors support a
large number of the poor in Morocco, especially in urban areas. They also supports the rural
population who are engaged in agriculture on a seasonal basis. The small enterprise sector faces many
obstacles that hinder its development. Although the ADS will not be directly involved in providing
finance to small enterprises, it will help to support some non-financial activities for small enterprises.
The ADS will create partnerships with associations like local chambers of commerce, NGOs involved
with small businesses to provide general support, such as conducting short courses in basic business
management, and finance and bookkeeping. The ADS will also support these associations to help
small enterprises overcome marketing problems by financing local exhibitions and helping small
enterprises to link with potential markets. Other capacity building activities for small enterprises will
also be supported.



31
Sub-projects that support the expansion of the existing micro finance operations to new
geographical areas: in the micro finance sector, Morocco, through a number of very active and
successful NGOs, has developed over the past decade an emerging MF industry that is reaching out to
somne of the poor population in the country. Foundations like Zakoura, Al-Amana, FONDEP and
others managed to build very healthy and sustainable loan portfolios. These programs are helping
mainly urban poor populations expand their micro economic activities or start new ones. While it
would not be justified for the ADS to start new micro fnance programs, it will work with existing
programs to support their expansion to new areas, especially rural ones, where their services are
needed. The ADS may support the initial cost for a micro finance intermediary to start operations in a
new province by financing the training of new loan officers, enhancing the loan tracking system or
simply buying computers. These sub-projects can encourage more coverage to the poor, especially in
rural areas, where micro finance intermediaries have not been very active.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.50 million
This component will support local NGOs to build their capacity to assess local needs, formulate,
implement and operate and maintain local development projects - activities that will enhance the
effectiveness of the first two components. It will also help communities to better organize the O&M of
social infrastructure. This component will help the ADS to reach remote areas with no local structures by
contracting large and institutionally capable NGOs to act as ADS agents in these areas. In some cases,
institutional development activities will form components of sub-projects, while in other cases, the ADS
will finance stand alone sub-projects of this sort. A rural water sub-project, for example, may include an
institutional development component by finance the salary of a sub-project manager to help the local
NGO implement the sub-project, or financing the training of members of a small water users' association
who will take over the O&M of the sub-project after completion. Due to the expected large demand for
the ADS services and its initial limited capacity, the ADS will sign a number of contracts with reputable
national or regional NGOs to support the institutional building of smaller local NGOs.
These large NGOs will work as ADS' agents in the agreed areas. The outcome of these contracts will
either be specific sub-projects that the small local NGOs will then contract with the ADS to implement, or
a larger sub-project that will be contracted with the large NGO involving activities in more than one
village with communities of these villages participating in implementation. ADS may also finance
training activities for local NGOs in general areas like management and book-keeping and accounts for
NGOs.
Project Component 4 - US$0.75 million
This component will provide support to different institutional and operational aspects of the ADS to learn
from experiences with similar operations in other countries and in Morocco. It will also help enhance the
ADS management and Board of Directors' understanding of specific technical areas like micro finance.
The component will finance studies that are directly related to the operational activities of the ADS.
ADS capacity building: two main areas will be the focus of this component - MIS and monitoring. The
existence of a fully integrated MIS which links sub-projects tracking systems with financial data has
proven to be a must in order for these kinds of operations to expand. With two state-of-the-art MISs in
both the Egypt and Yemen Social Funds, the ADS could get very useful help in this area. The
development of a monitoring and evaluation system is another area where ADS can use the help of other
Social Funds. During the pilot phase, the ADS will develop a monitoring system that enables it to track
the progress of its sub-projects and anticipate delays in implementation. The component will also support
the exchange of information in certain organizational and operational aspects of the work of the ADS. It
will support visits to other Social Funds that have been successfully operating for some years, the
inclusion of the ADS into the MNA Social Funds cluster, and invitations for professionals from sirnilar



32
programs in other countries to advise on different aspects. The development of an integrated MIS is one
area where cooperation can be of great benefit to the ADS.
Operational studies: during the course of its operations, the ADS will need to assess either the modality
of a possible intervention or the preliminary impact of an earlier intervention in a specific area or sector
through operational studies. If, for example, the ADS has financed a large number of literacy sub-
projects using a variety of approaches or implementation mechanisms, it can launch a study to look at
these activities and determine the lessons that were learned. Alternatively, the ADS can, before it gets
involved in financing literacy sub-projects, assess through a study the different efforts that have been
made in the country and identify the most proper mode for its intervention. Following the pilot phase, the
ADS will also conduct a beneficiary assessment to identify the scale and depth of its targeting
mechanism, better understand its clients and adjust its operation accordingly. Resources from this
component will also be used to study the cost effectiveness of the ADS interventions versus other players
in different sectors at the end of the pilot phase.
The sub-projects cycle:
The sub-project cycle of the ADS includes the following main steps (the operational manual includes full
details of this cycle);
Promotion: the ADS conducts regional promotional campaigns (which it has already started), especially
in poor areas and areas where demand for funding has not been received. The purpose of these campaigns
are to
*  Inform local communities of the existence of the ADS;
* Familiarize local communities with the ADS' scope of activities (what it can and cannot fund)
and the requirements in terms of participation and contributions; and
* Explain the procedure for submitting proposals.
Identification: sub-project ideas/proposals are submitted by communities through their representatives or
local NGOs using a standard format that is part of the operational manual which ensures a minimum level
of data to be available for project screening. At least one field visit will be conducted to the proposed
project sites by the ADS (either by an ADS employee, consultant or NGO that is contracted by the ADS).
The field visit is conducted following a desk review of the funds availability for this specific area. The
purposes of the initial field visit are to:
*  Ensure that the project idea represents a priority for the majority of the population;
*  Ensure that the proposed beneficiary group is part of the target group of the ADS;
*  Assess the initial technical feasibility of the proposed activity; and
*  Make initial agreements with the cormmunities regarding their contribution to the project
costs.
Screening: an internal process in the ADS is to be undertaken by an internal screening committee. The
screening committee mainly looks at whether the activity could or could not be funded under the ADS
and assesses the potential target group and expected impact of the activity. The screening committee
initially accepts or rejects the project idea/proposal. If the proposal is rejected, the submitting
community/NGO is officially informed of the reasons of rejection. If the project idea/proposal is initially
accepted, it is included in the ADS' pipeline and is appraised according to its date of submission.
Appraisal: sub-project appraisal is a joint effort between the ADS and the NGO/submitting agency. The
ADS may use staff, consultants or NGOs to conduct appraisals of sub-projects. The sub-project appraisal
looks at all aspects of the sub-project (technical, institutional, financial, implementation, environmental,
etc.). The output of the appraisal process is a project document that lays out all details of the sub-project
including a budget, disbursement table and the milestones for disbursing each tranche. This project



33
document is then submitted to the appraisal committee (an internal committee at the ADS) for review. At
this point, and since the project concept was approved earlier, the appraisal committee does not look at
the main concept but rather at the details of the sub-project (i.e. budget, duration, milestones, etc.). The
committee either approves the sub-project without changes or recommends some changes. Once changes,
if any, are incorporated in the project, the project is contracted. In cases where the sub-project budget
exceeds the authority of approval of the ADS' DG, the project will be submitted to the Board of Directors'
approval committee at its following meeting prior to contracting.
Contracting: The project document is included in a standard contract indicating the main party/ies
responsible for project implementation and the contribution of each party (including the ADS). Projects'
contracts may have two or more parties (with the ADS as the first party in all cases). A project contract
will always have a main intermediary (which will be a NGO in most of the cases) and may include other
agencies (such as a local government, a regional office of a line ministry, etc.). Once the sub-project
contract is signed, implementation begins.
Monitoring and evaluation: sub-projects are monitored using three main ways:
A reporting system: is agreed on in the sub-project document and includes monthly, quarterly and
annual progress, technical and financial reports to be submitted by the implementing agency to the ADS.
Field visits: to be conducted by the ADS project officer in charge of the sub-project at least once before
the disbursement of each tranche to ensure that progress is satisfactory and no major obstacles are
foreseen.
Monitoring consultants: each sub-project (or group of sub-projects in one region) will have a local
consultant responsible for its monitoring. The implementation agency's reports will be paralleled by other
reports that are submitted by the ADS consultant (it could later be the ADS' regional representation that
conducts the sub-project monitoring).
Evaluation will be done either at mid sub-project stage and final stage (in the case of a relatively large
sub-project) or simply at the end of the project. The project document will include details of the
evaluation process (such as who performs it, the evaluation technique to be used, the budget for
evaluation, etc.).
Hand-over and operation: sub-project assets, if any, are handed over based on the agreements reached
and included in the project document (some sub-projects will be handed over to community committees
while others will be handed over to government agencies). The ADS will continue to monitor the project
operation for two years following project handover to ensure the sustainability of the sub-project (in sub-
projects such as literacy classes, for example, would not apply). Areas of weaknesses in O&M will be
identified during this period and ADS support may be further extended to enhance the community's
capacity for O&M.



[                       L  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~F  0
(on
A~~~~~~~~~~r El
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
V   0-
CoD
I~~       ~~~~~~ I ;d ii t  



35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
Local      Foreign       Total
-:    f - ~ ProJect Cost-B Conmponent -       US$million - -US $million - US$million
Community development and social infrastructure        6.50         1.50        8.00
Economic infrastructure and income generation          2.50        0.50         3.00
Institutional development for intermediaries           1.20        0.50         1.70
Studies and ADS capacity building                      0.50        0.50         1.00
Total Baseline Cost                                   10.70        3.00        13.70
Physical Contingencies                                0.50        0.10         0.60
Price Contingencies                                   0.50        0.20         0.70
Total Project Costs                        11.70        3.30        15.00
Total Financing Required                      11.70        3.30       15.00
. - . . :. -- - - ~ -  Local  .   - . Foreign  Total
.. .. Project Cost By Category  - .. .... ^  -- -US' million  US.$rhillion  US$rnillion
Goods                                                    1.00         0.50        1.50
Works                                                    5.50         1.80        7.30
Services                                                 5.20         1.00        6.20
Training                                                 0.00         0.00        0.00
Total ProJect Costs                     11.70         3.30       15.00
Total Financing Required                  11.70         3.30       15.00
l
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 15 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
33.33% of total project cost net of taxes.



36
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
In recent years, there has been a fast diffusion of social funds and other similar community based
projects across the developing world. During the last decade, the World Bank alone has lent US$ 3.5
billion to social fund projects. When other donor and govermnent resources are considered,
investment in social funds project approximate US$ 8.2 billion. Recent evaluations suggest that, in
general, social funds and community based projects can be costs-effective instruments to alleviate
unmet demands of social services, particularly among low-income population groups. There is also
evidence that social funds can contribute, indirectly, to community development and the
accumulation of social capital.
In this section, we assess the economic rationale for the ADS. The project has a cost of US$ 15
million (65 percent financed through local resources and 35 percent financed by the World Bank) and
has been designed around four components: (i) community development and social infrastructure;
(ii) economic infrastructure development and income generating activities; (iii) institutional
development for intermediaries; and (iv) studies and ADS capacity building. Given the demand-
driven nature of the Project, and therefore the uncertainty in terms of the structure of the portfolio of
projects, it is difficult to assess ex-ante potential welfare impacts. Nonetheless, intemational
experience suggests that social gains will be almost completely determined by how the ADS is
designed and implemented. The results of an exploratory analysis of potential costs and benefits
suggest that even in the case of pessimistic assumptions about costs, and conservative assumptions
about benefits, the social rate of return of the ADS project could range between 26 and 61 percent.
The economic analysis has four elements. First, we evaluate the links between the ADS, the country
assistance strategy, and available knowledge onl social protection systems in Morocco. Second, we
discuss the justification for Government financing of the ADS' s different components and assess the
potential cost-effectiveness of the interventions on the basis of international evidence. Third, we
highlight areas where policy makers and ADS's management will need to focus to maximize the
social rate of return of the investments. Finally, we summarize the results of an exploratory analysis
of potential social costs and benefits, under different assumptions about administrative efficiency,
portfolio composition, and unit costs.
Links to CAS and ESW
The recent Country Assistance Strategy for Morocco (see World Bank, 2001a) emphasizes the need
to improve efficiency in the allocation of public resources, as a necessary condition to reduce poverty
and vulnerability. To this end, it recommends strengthening participative and decentralized
approaches, and promoting community development in rural areas. As discussed below, based on
international experiences, the ADS can be instrumental in achieving these objectives by: (i)
improving the poverty focus of pubic expenditures; (ii) generating efficiency gains through
community involvement in the allocation of resources and through lower production and distribution
costs; (iii) providing risk coping mechanisms to vulnerable population groups; and (iv) stimulating
social interactions and social capital formation.
The need to provide access to basic services and infrastructure as a way to reduce social risks and
prevent further erosion of human capital, was stressed in the recent Morocco Social Protection
Strategy Note (World Bank, 2001b). Today, 50 percent of the rural population lacks access to basic
health services, and health insurance is virtually nonexistent. Less than 30 percent of the rural



37
population has access to potable water, only 20 percent has access to electricity and many villages do
not have access to roads. Water scarcity as a result of salination is a growing problem as well. It has
been estimated that by 2010 Morocco will become a water deficient country. Low-income population
groups are also constrained in their opportunities. Lacking access to capital markets and appropriate
risk reduction and risk mitigating mechanisms, they cannot engage in high-risk, high-return activities.
Households whose major source of income is in the agricultural sector are highly vulnerable to
frequent adverse weather. Manifestations of poor infrastructure, constrained access to basic services
and economic opportunities are high infant and maternal mortality rates (comparable to low-income
countries), and wide spread malnutrition and micro nutrient deficiencies. Poverty and vulnerability
have increased as well (see World Bank, 2001c).
The ADS aims at expanding access to basic services and infrastructure, and developing mechanisms
that facilitate access to markets for low-income population groups, thus expanding their economic
opportunities. As discussed in the following sections, these objectives could be achieved using cost-
effective interventions. As experience accumulates and efficiency in management increases, the ADS
has the potential to become a key instrument to address Morocco's challenges in terms of reducing
poverty, vulnerability and inequality.
Justification for government financing of social fund activities
Governments are called to intervene in the social sectors to improve efficiency and equity. In terms
of efficiency, it is now recognized that often individuals fail to capture the full social benefits of the
consumption of services such as education and health, and therefore markets tend to under provide.
Thus, governments have a role in subsidizing the consumption of these services. Regarding equity,
markets do not have built-in mechanisms that guarantee an equitable distribution of income and
access to basic services. Governments have, therefore, a role in devising financing mechanisms to
ensure that low-income/vulnerable population groups have access to basic services. The need for this
type of intervention is reinforced in the presence of imperfections in capital markets, which preclude
households from acquiring debt to finance investment in human capital.
The existence of these markets failures, however, is not a sufficient condition to justify government
involvement. It is also necessary that cost-effective interventions are available to correct the market
failures. Indeed, if the cost of correcting the market failure is higher than the resulting social benefits,
societies are better-off if governments do not intervene. Below, we apply this framework to the
different components of the ADS .
Financing access to social services and basic infrastructure
As previously discussed, in the case of Morocco there are clear social spillovers from expanding
access to social services such as health, education and basic infrastructure. There are also important
equity issues to resolve, as access is more restricted among low-income population groups. Thus, in
principle, there is a role for the Government to finance part of the production costs of these goods and
services. In addition, international experience suggests that, if appropriately managed, a social fund
or similar community based programs can be a cost-effective mechanism to correct market failures
(see, Rawlings and Van Domelen, 2001). Indeed, there is strong evidence that community-based
approaches have lower unit costs in all sectors and across all countries (see Figure 1 for an
illustration), than traditional approaches. Where social funds tend to have higher costs than
traditional programs (e.g., Honduras and Nicaragua), little community involvement, more complex
works, few comparators, and costs increasing during construction are usually the main causes.



38
Figure 1: Relative unit-costs of social funds in selected countries
,% 4-
o            * Arrrenia
S 3.5 
E
E    3
, 2.5
E E                     Cost-offective programs
2 2-
E    2                                Peru  Yerren Zantla
0   1.5
* Rnrfvin
0.5                     * Hoduras
Non-cost-feective programs
C     O             ,    T,0
0     1     2     3     4     5     6     7     8
Source: Based on Rawlings and Van Domekn, 2001, and World Bank 2000.
The effectiveness of social funds and community based programs can also be measured by the impact
they have on social outcomes. The study by Rawlings and Van Domelen shows that social funds
have tended to increase access to and the quality of social services versus comparisons groups. In
most cases, this has resulted in greater utilization of basic services. Nonetheless, results vary across
sectors. Usually, the major impacts have been achieved in water and education projects. There is less
evidence of impact in the health sector.
Financing community development and economic infrastructure
The rationale for financing other interventions such as the creation of markets, and promoting
community development, could be less obviouse Indeed, the question that emerges is why private
actors do not engage in these activities if there are positive returns for all participants? Research has
shown that coordination problems, lack of trust, the absence of mechanisms to enforce contracts, as
well as liquidity constraints, can lead to situations where socially optimal collective actions are not
undertaken. Governments have a role in facilitating coordination and social capital formation. The
ADS can be a powerful instrument to achieve this objective.
Crowding- in and crowding-out
Other economic analyses view the potential substitution of services provided/financed through
traditional public systems as a negative outcome. These analyses get around the problem by arguing
that social funds expenditures are low relative to the social sector budget. The fact, however, is that
this substitution effect is desirable and should be encouraged if the social fund constitutes a more
cost-effective instrument to deliver social services. This being the case, it is conceivable that the
problems of financial sustainability of the social funds could be solved, in part, by reallocating
resources from traditional government programs.
The risk of crowding out private financing, on the other hand, has been down played. Yet, this is an
area where ADS' management needs to focus. While the ADS is trying to address the market failure
of an insufficient provision of basic services and infrastructure and its unequal distribution, the
optimal level of the subsidy is certainly not 100%. The financial sustainability of the ADS will be in
part determined by the existence of mechanisms that maximize cost-recovery. This would require
conducting rigorous willingness to pay studies (see next section).



39
The ADS has also the potential to crowd-in, additional resources from donors. International
experience suggests that social funds which have demonstrated that they can deliver social services in
an efficient way while targeting poor and vulnerable population groups, have received support from
the donors community. The Yemen Social Fund, for instance, has attracted over USD 46 million in
foreign funding (excluding IDA financing).
Maximizing social rates of return
The evidence of social funds' cost-effectiveness comes from other countries. For policy purposes, it
is also necessary to assess what is the likelihood that the ADS will achieve similar levels of
efficiency. There are no particular structural constraints in Morocco that would prevent an efficient
implementation of the ADS, as in other countries with similar or lower levels of income.
Nonetheless, neither are there automatic mechanisms to ensure that the design and implementation
will be conducted as to maximize welfare gains. Moroccan policy makers and ADS management are
aware of this issue, and have developed an operational manual aiming at reducing implementation
risks and enhancing social outcomes. In this section, we discuss key areas that will affect the
performance of the ADS.
Adequate institutional capacity
Good management, well-trained-high-quality human resources, and appropriate information systems
are the pillars of a successful social fund. Defining policy strategies, preparing and executing
financial plans, evaluating, selecting and monitoring projects are highly specialized tasks that require
human resources with appropriate training. Malleability is also a necessary condition for improved
efficiency. Social fund managers need to have the capacity to adapt/adjust regulatory frameworks as
new informnation in terms of the performance of alternative projects becomes available. This cannot
be achieved without adequate information systems that allow for a detailed monitoring of project
activities, unit costs, and rigorous beneficiaries assessments. ADS management can now rely on an
extensive literature about methods and international experiences in social funds impact evaluation
(see for example, Pradhan et al. 1998, Castillo and Lema, 1998, and Salmen, 1999).
Regional allocation of resources
Public financing of social funds is justified, in part, in terms of equity, and procedures are necessary
to ensure that resources are targeted to low-income and vulnerable population groups. Most
evaluations of social funds indicate that resources tend to reach poor districts and households and
even some of the poorest of the poor. However, there is room to improve progressivism. While at the
local level this can be achieved through decentralized approaches where communities are directly
involved, regional allocations generally require a centralized approach. The methods for achieving
efficient regional allocations vary, but usually require identifying priorities in terms of population
groups which need to be targeted (e.g., poor, children, the elderly) and then allocating resources in
proportion to population shares for each of these groups. This requires updated household surveys.
Morocco has made considerable progress in conducting this type of survey and monitoring different
social indicators at the regional level. This will greatly facilitate the design and implementation of
appropriate regional allocation mechanisms.



40
Criteria to select projects
A defining characteristic of social funds is the fact that activities are driven by communities'
demands. Under ideal conditions and with unlimited resources, there would be no need for regulating
the allocation of resources. Given limited resources, however, and the fact that different communities
do not necessarily coordinate demands, social funds managers have a key role in defining and setting
priorities. This is all the more important when we take into account that communities tend to be
highly heterogeneous and that community leaders' preferences may not be necessarily consistent with
average preferences (see also Carvhalo 1997, for problems related to demand induced by politicians,
social fund staff, and private contractors). There is also heterogeneity between communities, and in
the absence of appropriate regulations those communities with higher institutional capacity (usually
better-off communities) are likely to claim a higher share of funds resources (see Salmen, 1999).
Finally, some activities bring higher social gains than others, and social funds are not equally efficient
across sectors. For instance, there is evidence that better results have generally been achieved in
terms of providing access to basic education and heath, than in developing economic infrastructure
(see Carvhalo, 1997).
The allocation of resources, however, is a delicate issue, since over regulation would undermine one
of the core comparative advantages of the ADS, that is to improve efficiency through local demand-
driven initiatives. The ADS, in its operational manual, considers various policies to improve
efficiency and equity in the selection projects, without discouraging community participation. First,
priority is given to projects which have been designed with strong community involvement and where
a continuous dialog with community members has been carried-on (indicators used include the source
of the request, minutes of the meetings, and proof of financial commitment). Second, preference is
given to projects which are directly connected to large development initiatives in the region
(indicators used include the existence of other activities in the region). Finally, priority is given to
projects with a strong poverty component (indicators include income level of beneficiaries relative to
average income in the region). As discussed, below, there are also regulations in terms of project
costs, and implementation capacity. Furthermore, different sectors are subject to different financing
schemes which encourage or discourage demand. Through these mechanisms, social fund managers
can influence (not determine) the portfolio of projects. If this is done on the basis of high quality data
and rigorous analysis, there can be important social gains.
Regulations in terms of unit costs
Social funds need to have built-in mechanisms to promote costs-effectiveness. Some of these
mechanisms are market driven, such as promoting competition in the allocation of contracts among
intermediaries. Centralized approaches on the other hand, impose ceilings in terms of unit costs,
and/or constraints to the allocation of inputs. The risk with the latter approach is that in the absence
of reliable data on unit-costs, regulations can generate biased allocations. Initially, a flexible stance is
recommended. On the other hand, as experience accumulates and micro-level data about projects
becomes available, standards can be adjusted and enforced. As communities and intermediaries gain
experience, it is also desirable to move towards market driven systems. The ADS envisages in its
operational manual selecting projects on the basis of detailed economic assessments, based on
evolving minimum unit-costs standards (see Table 1, for an estimate of baseline unit-costs). It also
gives priority to projects which are intensive in the use of local physical and human resources (see
ADS 2001, Ch. 4).



41
Table 1: Morocco: Estimated average unit-cost per program and beneficiary (DM)
Unit Costs                             SF         Line
Ministry
Health equipment                                               86,445      157,870
Water supply projects (pumping unit with head 199m-1 50m & discharging 4-6 lit/s  85,725  89,493
School average cost                                          1,038,282   1,765,080
Costs per beneficiary                                           1997      1998        1999
Education                                                       748.4       852.2      439.8
Health                                                           36.3        92.3       57.9
Water                                                           206.2        105.0      143.8
Capacity building                                               762.4       752.9      259.0
Roads                                                                           .        75.7
Sewerage                                                                    310.6       100.6
Source: Authors calculations on the basis of international data.
Financial sustainability
One of the major weaknesses of social funds is the dependence on donors support. Few social funds
have achieved financial sustainability (see World Bank 2001a, Ch. 3). Addressing the issue of
financial sustainability in Morocco will first require determining an efficient mix of private
(communities) and public funds. This mix depends on the type of activity, demographic and
socioeconomic characteristics of the targeted groups, as well as their geographic location.
Available public funds will be constrained by the sustainable flows of foreign assistance and
relocations from the social sectors budget. Given these fiscal constraints, the number and scope of
projects that the fund can undertake will be determined by the availability of private resources.
Today, Morocco spends 12.5 percent of GDP in the social sectors, while the costs of the ADS over a
five years period are equivalent to only 0.16 percent of GDP (65 percent financed by local resources).
The same level of expenditures could be maintained (or even increased), if relocations are made from
the social sectors (see World Bank, 2001b) and if foreign aid increases. It is important to note that,
contrary to some other social funds, the ADS' administrative structure is supported by the
Government. This increases the likelihood of a financially sustainable expansion of the system.
Private resources, on the other hand, will depend on cost-recovery mechanisms. ADS has embedded
in its design several of these mechanisms. First, project selection is contingent on communities'
commitment to absorb future recurrent costs (operation and maintenance). Second, communities are
required to participate in the financing of investment costs. The exact nature of the financing
arrangements depends on factors such as: (i) the type of project; (ii) the average level of income of
households in the community; (iii) and whether or not the region has a favorable or adverse
geographic location (see ADS, 2001, Ch. 5). In general, beneficiaries are asked to contribute 10
percent of investment costs in the case of social infrastructure, and 20 percent in the case of economic
infrastructure. This is still a very broad criteria, but it should evolve as experience accumulates.
More efficient pricing mechanisms will also require conducting willingness to pay studies for
different goods and services (for discussions on international experiences and methods, see Ardila et
al., 1998; and McConnell, 2001).



42
Community and intennediaries' capacity
The capacity of communities and NGOs to identify, prepare and implement projects is a key
determinant of the success of a social fund. Lately, the issue of whether communities and local
NGOs are really prepared for this central role has been raised (see Plateau and Abraham, 2001).
Recent evaluations suggest, however, that conmnunities in general have demonstrated high levels of
organization and implementation capacity. This is true regardless of the country level of income.
Some manifestations are faster disbursements than with traditional bank projects and a high degree of
beneficiary satisfaction (see Rawlings and Domelen, 2001). Rawlings and Domelen also find no
evidence that demand-driven mechanisms discrm inate against the poor. Recent research also shows
that management capacity at the community level need not be a precondition for the development of a
social fund. On the contrary, the ADS can constitute a powerful mechanism to promote community
development and the accumulation of social capital (see Jack, 2000). The social project includes a
component to support community and NGO development. Through this component, the ADS will be
able to reach remote areas with no local structures, by contracting capable NGOs to act as ADS
agents.
Exploratory analysis of potential costs and benefits
In this section, for illustration purposes we sunuarize the results of an exploratory analysis of the
potential costs and benefits of ADS. We concentrate on two broad categories of projects: education
related projects, and water related projects. T'he focus is on the social benefits related to a lower
infant mortality rate, and higher enrollment in primary education. We estimate social rates of return
for alternative compositions of the portfolio projects, and alternative assumptions about costs and
benefits (see the Technical Appendix for a detailed description of the methods used in the analysis).
The main message from the analysis is that even in the case of pessimistic assumptions about costs,
and conservative assumptions about benefits, the rates of return of the ADS project could be in the
order of 25 to 60 percent. The magnitude of the benefits increases in proportion to the growth rate of
total factor productivity. The results also show that the social rate of return remains high, even when
the composition of the portfolio of projects deviates from the social optimal. These results need to be
interpreted with caution, given the series of simplifications and assumptions necessary for the
calculations.
Estimating benefits
The analysis exploits the correlation between infant mortality rates and access to safe water in
Morocco, as well the linkage between enrollment in primary education and access to schools. The
latest household survey for Morocco shows that 62 percent of children aged 0 to 5 lack access to safe
water. The analysis of the survey also suggests that having access to safe water can significantly
reduce the probability of death, particularly between ages 1 and 3 (see Figure 2). In terms of
education, the survey shows that 20 percent of children aged 7 to 10 are not enrolled in primary
education, and that in 27 percent of the cases the main reason is that schools are too far or do not have
appropriate teaching materials or human resources (see Table 2). The social costs associated with
high infant mortality and lower enrollment are related, in part, to lost human capital and productivity.
In this analysis we concentrate on the social benefits that ADS will have, by implementing projects
that will reduce infant mortality and increase enrollment.



43
F*r re 2,: Access to safe water and infant mortaity rates
o--- (mean) nowatmort        ---6-- (mean) watmort
.125 -
.1 
.075-
.05 
.025-
0                                                      5
age
Source: Author's calculations on the basis of the 1998 household survey
TaWei 2  Reasons for not attending primary school
Percentage
Far away                                                    14,7
No places                                                    0,36
There are no schools in the area                            12,54
Needs to help the parents                                    5,73
Has to work                                                  0,18
Cannot afford costs                                         35,13
No interest                                                   4,3
Parents attitudes                                            8,96
Family difficulties                                          1,79
Others                                                     10,75
Source: Author's calculations on the basis of 1998 household survey.
Applies to 20% of children aged 7-10
Estimating costs
Two cost functions were defined for the analysis (see Technical Appendix): one to capture of the
costs of reducing infant nmotaIty, and a second to estimate the costs of increasing enrollment. These
functions link changes in the infant mortality rate and enrollment in primary education, to changes in
the level of access to safe water and schools. The costs functions were calibrated on the basis of the
household survey.     The general method was to predict changes in the average probability of
enrollment in primary education, and the average infant mortality rate resulting from providing access
to schools and safe water eo different shares of randomly selected individuals. It was assumed that
the costs of providing access to safe water and school to an additional individual are initially given by
the average unit costs esdirnaied in '2able 1. Unit costs are then assumed to increase with the number
of beneficiaries.



44
Esti,nating social rates of return
Social rates of return depend on the composition of the portfolio of investments. As previously
discussed, given the demand driven nature of ADS, it is not possible to know ex-ante this allocation.
Therefore, in the analysis we have focused on the rate of return under the assumption of a socially
optimal allocation of resources. We then compute changes in the rate of return, resulting from
deviations from the optimal allocation.
The results show, not surprisingly, that the socially optimal composition of the portfolio depends on
the relative costs and benefits of water and education related projects (see Figure 3). For instance, as
the unit cost of education project increases (unit costs are measured relative to the income of the
lowest decile of the income distribution), the optimal share in the portfolio diminishes.
Figure 3: Optimal shaere of education expenditures
expumftws(%  t -             I    Io
0.07027E8
O                          a oosso  Unl cog dueidon
0.017                  00628       swtr
0.0187  0.02057  0.02227
Source: Author's calculations
Regardless of the level of the unit costs, the social rates of return are likely to be considerably high,
ranging from 26 percent to 61 percent, for an average of 44 percent (see Figure 4). This implies that
for each dollar invested in ADS, society would get back between 1.26 and 1.61 dollars. This average
has been taken over a wide range of model parameters (see Table 3 in the Technical Appendix). The
rates of return are likely to be lower bounds of the true distribution, as the general approach has been
to be conservative about benefits and pessimistic about costs.



45
Figure 4: Potential social benefits of ADS
SocIairaleof return0
a 050i8  Unt co tedz8tIOln
0.017  -O7   -7 '    i  0.008        secbr
0_017.. .0._ . 5
Unit cost wier sectDr
Source: Authors calculations
The analysis also shows that even if deviations from the optimal portfolio are observed, social rates of
return would remain considerably high. For instance, a 20 percentage points increase in the share of
education expenditures relative to the optimal, would decrease the social rate of return by less than 5
percentage points on average (see Figure 3). Reductions in net social benefits would approximate 2
percentage points. The robustness of net social gains to deviations from the optimal portfolio, is
explained buy the fact that the interventions considered, if well implemented, are cost-effective on
their own.
Figure 5: Changes in the social benefits resulting from changes in the optimal structure of the portfolio
of investments
0.00%
X     100% 41        15%       20%       25%       30%       35%       4 'h
C     -200%
-3.00%
E -4.00%%
- -5.00%
z     -6.00%0_
cn             +.---Social rate ofreturn
i  -7.00%  -in--Net sochia benefit
Percentage points deviation from optimal share
Source: Authors calculations



46
References
ADS. 2001. "Manuel de Procedures". Royaume du Maroc.
Ardila S., Quiroga . and Vaughan W. 1998. "A Review of the Use of Contingent Valuation Method in Project
Analysis at the Inter-American Development Bank". Mimeo. Washington D.C.
Castillo C. and Lema R. 1998. "Economic Analysis of Social Investment Fund Projects: Case Studies and
Minimum Requirements Proposal". Mimeo. La Paz. Bolivia.
Jack M. 2000. "Social Investment Funds: An Organizational Approach to Improved Development Assistance".
Mimeo.
McConnell K. 2001. "Issues in Estimating Benefits with Non-Market Methods". Working Paper 308.
University of Maryland.
Pradhan M., Rawlings L., and Ridder G. 1998. "The Bolivian Social Investment Fund: An Analysis of Baseline
Data for Impact Evaluation". The World Bank Economic Review. V12. N3. World Bank.
Salmen L. 1999. "Beneficiary Assessment Manual for Social Funds". Mimeo. Human Development Network.
World Bank.
World Bank. 2001. "Increasing Opportunity and Reducing Vulnerability: An Strategy for Social Protection in
the MENA Region". Washington DC.
World Bank 2001. "Kingdom of Morocco. Country Assistance Strategy". Washington. DC.
World Bank. 2001. "Kingdom of Morocco: Poverty Update". Washington. DC.
World Bank. 2001. "Kingdom of Morocco: Social Protection Note". Washington. DC.



47
Technical Appendix
The model
We develop a simple model linking changes in mortality and enrollment rates to changes in the size of the
labor force and its productivity. We consider a population of N children born between years t and t-5.
We define by a the share of children who are alive at the end of time t; ,B the share of these children who
will enroll in primary education, y the share of these children who will graduate from high school, and y
the share of these children who will attend and graduate from university.
Assuming that labor productivity is proportional to wages (see Caballero and Lyons, 1992), the aggregate
productivity of the population of N children during their working life is given by:
H = Naqfl(1 -y)r   + y[(l- nwh + rw ]}+ Na(1-fi)w,         (1)
where w; is respectively the wage of workers with no primary education (i=n), primary level education
(i=p), high school education (i=h), and higher education (i=u).
On the basis of empirical evidence, we assume that a and ,3 can be affected through education and water
infrastructure related projects. We postulate that the cost of increasing a by e percentage points can be
approximated by a function of the form:
Ca =a,(6mIwN)a2                        (2)
where Iw is the share of the population lacking access to safe water, bm is the change in the level of
access that would need to take place to reduce the mortality rate by 1, and a, and a2 are parameters to be
estimated. The parameter a, can be interpreted as the first unit cost, or the cost of providing the implicit
service to an additional individual. The parameter a2 is used to take into account increasing marginal
costs.
Similarly, the cost of increasing ,B by ,u percentage points is given by:
C,6 = b, (N)b2,                        (3)
where b, is the initial costs and b2 captures increasing marginal costs.
The problem faced by a policymaker trying to maximize aggregate labor productivity for the cohort of
children in the absence of budget constraints is given by:
k=s4-4
Max, :H =      [9 N{9(kNlvr(acu + e + eu)+ w,, (e + e) + a# + 6u)}]- a,(e)2 -b (#N)b2,  (4)
k=t+15



48
where           ) is a discount factor taking into account, g, the growth rate of labor productivity
1+r)
(assumed to be uniform across types of labor), and r, the rate of time preference;
ar = (1 - r)wp + r[(l - )w   +  vWU ]; and N = mlwN.  We work directly with ta, under the
assumption that the social fund projects do not affect y, rl, or relative wages. Notice, that this approach
excludes the benefits of the new cohort of children. *We have opted for this conservative approach, given
uncertainty in terms of the sustainability of the interventions.
The first order conditions of this problem are given by:
I a=     OkN(t(,6+ u) + w. (1+ f6 + pu))- a,a2ea2lNa2 = 0
-=    E6N(Eu(a + e)+ wn (a+ U)) b1b2p  Nb2        (     5
System (5) captures neatly the complementary effects of water and education related interventions. The
marginal contribution to labor productivity of water related interventions (s), depends on education
related interventions (.), and vice-versa. Given the value of al, a2. b,, b2, wn, iw, N, and N, system
(5) can be solved for E and p.
The case with a budget constraint is similar:
Max, :H =            tkN y(afu+e6fi+4u)+wn(6+e6+ap+eu)}]-al(& ')a -b1(#N)k,           (6)
k=t+15
where X is the Lagrange multiplier and Y is the budget, net of admninistrative costs.
We focus on system (6), using 80% of the project total cost as the budget constraints (the remaining 20
percent is assumed to be allocated to administrative activities). After solving for E and 1p , we compute
the total costs for water and education related interventions, using equations (2) and (3). Given the
budget Y, the optimal share of each category of expenditure is then derived. The social rate of return is
simply computed as:
srr =-      ,                                   (7)
We notice that this rate of return depends on the expected average growth rate of labor productivity, g,
and the discount rate r. Net social gains of ensuring access to education and safe water will be enhanced
in a rapidly expanding economy.
Model calibration and simulation
To calibrate model parameters we use the Morocco 1998 household survey. Logit and probit models
were used to estimate correlations between the probability of death and enrollment in primary education,



49
and access to safe water and schools. The survey was also used to approximate levels of income for
different levels of education attainment (codes and files are available from the author).
To take into account errors in the parameter estimates, we simulate results over a large space of model
parameters. The model parameters and their range of variation are summarized in Table 3. All monetary
values (units costs and budget constraints) are expressed relative to annual average wage of a worker with
no primary education.
Table 3: Model parameters
Parameter                       Description                              Range
a,,       Cost function water related interventions.           [0.0528, 0.0702]
a_                                                      [1.05,1.3]
a2
bl,        Cost function education related interventions.       [0.017,0.0226]
b2                                                               [1.05.1.3]
w.        Average wage for a worker with no primary                  1
education.
Expected wage for a worker who enrolled in              [1.1,1.3]
primary education.
N         Total population of children born between years        3,142,545
1993 and 1998 (death or alive).
N/N        Share of the population who would need to have        [0.005,0.0151
access to safe water to reduce the mortality rate by
1 per 1000, other things being equal.
g         Growth rate of the economy.                              0.03
r         Discount factor.                                         0.10
T         Total budget (Y=0.8T)                                    19,329
Source Author's calculations. Monetary variables (unit costs and budgets), are expressed relative to Wn -



50
Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
Years Ending
2007
.___.___L.___-_"IMPLEiIENTATION PERIOD        .       ._._  |
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs       1.3      2.7     3.6      4.6      1.3      0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs        0.2      0.3      0.4      0.4      0.2      0.0     0.0
Totai Project Costs     1.5      3.0      4.0      5.0      1.5      0.0     0.0
Total Financing         1.5      3.0      4.0      5.0      1.5      0.0     0.0
Financing                              _
IBRDfiDA              0.5      1.0      1.5      1.5      0.5     0.0      0.0
Government            0.9      1.6      2.0      2.8      0.8     0.0      0.0
Central            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Provincial         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Co-financiers         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries  0.2     0.4      0.5      0.7      0.2     0.0      0.0
Other                   0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Total Project           1.6      3.0      4.0      5.0      1.5     0.0      0.0
Financing Oct_1_6                30     _
Main assumptions:
ADS capacity to process sub-project will build up gradually.



51
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements
Under the project, goods, works and services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines
for "Procurement under EBRD Loans and Credits" - January 1995 and revisions up to January 1999 and
for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" - January 1997 and revisions
up to January 1999.
Procurement will take place at two levels: (i) at the central level, within ADS, for activities related to
components 3 and 4; and (ii) at the community level for sub-projects with community participation
included in components 1, 2 and 3. The bulk of procurement work will occur at the community level to
implement sub-projects which absorb 85 percent of the loan. At the central level, the loan will finance
goods, consultant services and training. At the community level, the loan will finance sub-projects which
include small civil works, goods, training activities and technical assistance. Detailed procurement
arrangements are stipulated in the Operational Manual and agreed with the Bank.
A review of the decree no. 2-98-482 dated 11 ramadan 1419 (December 30, 1998), which ADS applies
for its government-financed work program, shows that although the procedures prescribed by the decree
are generally in line with Bank's guidelines, the following procedures are not acceptable to the Bank:
*  a) for works and goods: (i) the submission of bids in two envelopes (one containing
administrative documents and information on the qualifications of the suppliers, and the other
one containing the bid itself) and the opening of these two envelopes in two different phases
should not be applied. The two envelopes should be opened simultaneously, without
requiring the bidders' representatives to leave the room; and (ii) the use of a point system for
the evaluation and comparison of bids should not be applied. Instead, in addition to the bid
price, other criteria used in the evaluation will need to be quantified.
*  b) for consulting services, open competitive bidding should not be used, but invitation to bid
should be addressed to a short list of firms, possessing the required qualification and
experience. The financial proposals will be opened publicly following completion of the
evaluation of technical proposals.
At the community level, procurement undertaken for the sub-projects is governed by an Operational
Manual. ADS will oversee procurement management, and will ensure that procurement procedures,
funding and eligibility criteria for sub-projects agreed with the Bank, and described in the Operational
Manual, are satisfactorily complied with. Procurement will be carried out by NGOs on behalf of the
communities. Procurement capacity of and procedures applied by these entities vary widely. A limited
number of NGOs is able to undertake large procurement and operate within established procedures set out
by the country's regulations and/or by the financiers. Others work under informal settings, without
established procedures.
The size of the sub-projects is kept small, with an average value of $50,000 and not exceeding
US$200,000. Due to the nature and size of the sub-projects, there will be occasions when competitive
bidding will be based on simpler documentation. As such, models of simplified bidding documents have
been developed and are included in the Operational Manual.



52
A General Procurement Notice will be published in the United Nations Development Business after
project negotiations and will be updated annually. In addition, as soon as a set of sub-projects is
presented for approval by ADS, a general advertising of the opportunities to bid (which serves the same
purpose as the General Procurement Notice) will also be published, at the national level, in newspapers
and places where potential suppliers and contractors are likely to visit. This will help improve
transparency and increase competition and, at the same time, provide communities with valuable
information on bidders'qualification and experience. A roster with the bidders' experience and track
record will be established by the communities for actual and future bidding.
Procurement risk assessment
Procurement risk assessment covers mainly entities involved in the implementation of sub-projects which
account for 85 percent of the loan and are rated "average". As stated above, the bulk of procurement
activities are to be undertaken by community groups or by NGOs on behalf of the commnunities. The
capacity of these entities varies widely. Although there is a small number of these entities which can carry
out large procurement, following established rules and procedures, there exists a large number which
lacks capacity and operates in informal settings, especially in remote rural areas. In order to mitigate
these weaknesses, the following actions, to have been undertaken by December 2001, have been agreed
during appraisal:
(a) Finalize the Procurement section of the Operational Manual, to include models of simplified
bidding documents. A consultant, who specializes in community-based projects, is actually working
with ADS in this matter.
(b) Develop an annex listing and explaining the procurement methods and procedures to all financing
conventions signed between ADS and the beneficiary community.
(c) Train staff in the first regional antenna (Marrakech) on procurement, in particular the procedures
established in the Operations Manual.
(d) Designate a resource person in ADS, at the central level, who will be familiar with Bank's
procurement procedures and particularly those included in the Operations Manual and will also be
responsible for all documentation related to procurement.
In addition, the project has built in its design the following aspects: (i) a component to provide technical
assistance to develop and strengthen the institutional capacity of the intermediaries, including
implementation and procurement (Component 3); (ii) the loan amount is small; (iii) the size of the sub-
projects is kept small, with an average value of US$50,000 and not exceeding US$200,000; and (iv)
participation of the communities in every stage of the procurement processes will add an important
control element.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Competitive bidding will form the principal basis on which procurement work will be guided. The
methods applied in the project will take into account a combination of factors, such as transparency, cost
efficiency, optimization of the use of local labor and commerce as well as the budget value of contracts.
Civil works:
Civil works related to sub-projects will be of small scale, comprising works to enhance the infrastructure
of poor rural and urban slum areas (e.g. constructionlrehabilitation of classrooms, of primary health care
facilities, rural water supplies/irrigation, small markets and rural roads). As these works will be
geographically dispersed in local communities, with small contract values not exceeding US$200,000,
since they will not attract foreign bidders, and will therefore be contracted using National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures and National Shopping (NS) undertaken at the community level. Direct



53
Contracting will be acceptable when competition is not available or not practical and limited to small
contract values.
For civil works with an estimated contract value equal or above US$25,000, NCB procedures will apply,
with advertisement in two national newspapers. For contract values between US$10,000 and US$25,000,
NCB procedures will apply, using simplified bidding documents with advertisement done at the level of
the community, in newspapers and in public areas. These simplified bidding documents have been agreed
with the Bank and are included in the Operational Manual. Contracts with a value below US$10,000 will
be awarded through local shopping by soliciting at least three competitive quotations from local suppliers.
Direct contracting may only be used for contract values below US$5,000 and in situations where no
competition is foreseen.
Goods:
Goods will primarily include materials and equipment related to sub-projects. The procurement methods
and thresholds are the samne as for civil works. Vehicles and computer goods may be procured from the
United Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization (IAPSO), in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines.
Services:
Services will primarily cover technical assistance and training related to (i) sub-projects; (ii) institutional
strengthening of ADS; and (iii) the carrying out of impact evaluation of interventions.
Given the small size and scope of the services undertaken in sub-projects, the services will be carried out
in the majority of cases by individual consultants, selected on the basis of comparison of qualifications.
For other services related to institutional development activities, operational studies and impact
evaluation, consulting firms will be selected , using the following methods: Quality and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS), Least-Cost Selection and Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB         NCB        Other       N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                   0.00        3.50        0.30        3.15           6.95
(0.00)      (2.50)      (0.30)      (0.00)         (2.80)
2. Goods                   0.00        3.20        0.20        2.40           5.80
(0-00)      (1.25)      (0.20)      (0.00)         (1.45)
3. Services                0.00        0.00        2.25        0.00           2.25
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.75)      (0.00)         (0.75)
4. Miscellaneous           0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                    0.00        6.70        2.75        5.55          15.00
(0.00)      (3.75)      (1.25)      (0.00)         (5.00)
1/   Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.



54
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil works: All contracts for NCB above US$200,000 equivalent will be subject to the Bank's prior
review. The first three sub-projects with civil works contracts above US$10,000 will be subject to prior
review. Post-review will be conducted during supervision missions and procurement audits. Procurement
audits will be carried out at least once a year.
Goods: All contracts for NCB above US$200,000 equivalent will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
The first three sub-projects with goods contracts above US$10,000 will be subject to prior review. Post-
review will be conducted during supervision missions and procurement audits. Procurement audits will
be carried out at least once a year.
Services: With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting fin}ns estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$100,000 or more, procurement documentation, including request for proposals (RFP),
cost estimate, results of technical evaluation of off-ers, is subject to Bank's prior review. With respect to
each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000
or more, the following is subject to Bank's prior review: terms of reference (TOR), consultants' CV and
cost estimate. TOR and cost estimate are subject to the Bank's prior review for all contracts for
consulting firms as well as for individual, regardless of their value.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Revlew 1
Expenditure Category     Contract Value        Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Method            Prior Review
(US$)                                     (US$)
1. Works                   Equal or above           NCB          Advertisement in 2
US$25,000                            national newspapers;
prior review of all
contracts above
US$200,000 and first 3
contracts above
US$10,000.
US$10,000-US$25,000          NCB          Simplified bidding
documents will be
used. Advertisement at
the community level, in
newspapers and public
areas.
Below US$10,000            NS           Shopping will be
undertaken at the
community level.
Solicitation of at least 3
quotations.
Below US$5,000       Direct contracting  May only be used in
situations where no
competition is
foreseen.



55
Expenditure Category     Contract Value        Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Threshold             Method             Prior Review
(US$)                                     (US$)
2. Goods                   Equal or above           NCB           Advertisement in 2
US$25,000                            national newspapers;
prior review of all
contracts above
US$200,000 and first 3
contracts above
US$10,000.
US$ 10,000-US$25,000          NCB         Simplified bidding
documents will be
used. Advertisement at
the community level, in
newspapers and public
areas.
Below US$10,000            NS           Shopping will be
undertaken at the
community level.
Solicitation of at least 3
quotations.
Below US$5,000       Direct contracting  May only be used in
situations where no
competition is
foreseen.
3. Services                    Firms           QCSB, Least-Cost    For contracts equal or
Selection, Selection  above US$100,000,
Based on Consultants'  RFP including TOR
Qualifications    and short list, and cost
estimate. For contracts
below US$100,000,
TOR and cost estimate.
Individuals      Selection of individual  For contracts equal or
consultants       above US$50,000,
TOR, CV and cost
estimate. For contracts
below US$50,000,
TOR and cost estimate.
1 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation"
and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$300,000



56
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits). The procurement supervision missions will be part of
regular supervision missions.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category           Amount In US$          Financing Percentage
million
Sub-project activities (Component 1)       3.00                     100%
Sub-project activities (Component 2)       1.00                      100%
Goods (Component 3 and 4)                  0.20         100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
Civil works (component 3 and 4)            0.10                      80%
Consultant services and Training           0.50                      100%
(Component 3 and 4)
Unallocated                                0.20
Total Prolect Costs                        5.00
Total                                      5.00
Evaluation of the Financial Management System
The Financial Autonomy of the ADS
The ADS is a public entity established by its charter (Dahir No. 1-99-207 of 13 Joumada I, 1420) on
August 25, 1999, as a financially autonomous legal entity. It is subject to government regulations as
regards its staff rules, procurement, and accounting. However, once approved, its statutes are enforced by
management under the supervision of its Executive Board. Under Moroccan regulations, the ADS must be
subject to government oversight. That oversight function is fulfilled by the Ministere de l'Emploi, de la
Formation Professionnelle, du Developpement Social et de la Solidarite (MEFPDSS), without the ADS
thereby losing its financial autonomy. The ADS budget is drawn up once a year and submitted, via the
MEFPDSS' budget, to the Government Council.
In practice, this financial autonomy is restricted and has to be applied in a predetermined framework.
Thus the Agency may not pay its staff market wages, but it must abide by a pre-established pay scale set
by the MOF, which also fixes the salary and grade corresponding to a given level of university graduates.
To enable some flexibility with the restrictions imposed by the staff rules, the ADS is authorized to hire
contractual ernployees. The scope of such contracts remains to be worked out between the ADS and the
MOF.



57
Organizational structure of thefinancial managementfunction
The financial management function is the responsibility of the Financial and Administrative Division
(Direction Financiere et Administrative - DFA). This division is in charge of administration, including
human resources management, and accounting. DFA staffing is minimal: the Director of the division, an
accountant, and an administrative assistant. The persons met by the Bank mission (the Director and the
accountant) were clearly competent in this area and have the experience and qualifications required to
perform their functions. The accountant was only recently recruited (in September, 2001) and is the sole
person responsible for all stages of accounting from initial verification of expenditure vouchers to
preparation of payment and transfer orders, as well as clearances [dechargesl and other tasks. The
accountant has not been trained, nor briefed by the previous temporary accountant. There are no job
descriptions for those employed in this division, nor any written accounting or administrative procedures
to be followed, except the public accounting and procurement laws.
The financial controller, known as the Accounting Officer, is appointed by the Minister of Finance. The
Accounting Officer, who is only available one day a week, reviews expenditures to ensure that they are
duly authorized and follow the procedures. This will only be a temporary arrangement given current
needs plus those projected when the work load increases considerably, which is likely to occur next year
when the financing of projects begins.
The current structure of the Financial Management (FM) function will unlikely be able to cope with the
expected level of ADS' future operations, especially once project financing commences and the workload
increases. Given the nature of ADS' operations and the volume of work projected in various parts of
Morocco, it is essential to strengthen the Agency's organizational structure at three levels. First, a full-
time, in-house financial controller is needed in the ADS; a post that would be financed out of the ADS
budget. The second level concerns the regional offices. Depending on the volume of work in a given
office, and as regional offices are opened, it is recommended that ADS considers the appointment of
additional persons to monitor financial management and procurement, and to train ADS social partners
(NGOs, local communities and beneficiaries). These people will provide social partners with the
necessary training on ADS accounting and procurement procedures on one hand, and on techniques for
sound management of their projects and the preparation of the financial and progress reports to be
submitted to the ADS, on the other. These persons will be responsible for preparing disbursement
schedules after they have received expenditure, procurement, and project implementation information,
verified the information (especially the financial data), and have consolidated the information for
transmission to the ADS for disbursement. During the first year, when not all regional offices will have
been opened, the additional staff responsible for the monitoring of financial management and
procurement could be located at ADS headquarters. This person's responsibilities will then be gradually
transferred to the regional offices as the need arises.
With respect to the beneficiaries, the additional ADS staff will be in charge of training the social partners
executing the projects in accordance with their needs in simplified financial management techniques,
procurement, and the preparation of financial and progress reports.
Social partners' financial management capacity: The ADS will undertake an evaluation of each sub-
project and the implementation capacity of each implementing agency to determine their needs in terms
of technical assistance and training in financial management, procurement and project management. Each
sub-project will maintain simplified cash accounting and reporting systems to ADS.
The Bank's mission reviewed the operational manual and the standard project agreement, and discussed
its comments on these with ADS staff. A number of missing procedures and clauses from the operational
manual and the standard agreement were discussed and will be added to these documents by the ADS



58
prior to the effectiveness of the loan to ensure better financial management at the sub-project's level.
Certain simplified financial reports from the social partners to ADS were also discussed and drafted as
part of the standard documents. Comments and formats are attached to the FMS assessment and are
included in the project files.
The Bank's mission reviewed the operational manual and the standard project agreement, and discussed
its comments on these with ADS staff. A number of missing procedures and clauses from the operational
manual and the standard agreement were discussed and will be added to these documents by the ADS
prior to the effectiveness of the loan to ensure better financial management at the sub-project's level.
Certain simplified financial reports from the social partners to ADS were also discussed and drafted as
part of the standard documents. Comments and formats are attached to the FMS assessment and are
included in the project files.
The Social partners and beneficiaries will be responsible for keeping a simplified cash accounting of the
funds received from ADS and from beneficiaries contributions for the implementation of the project.
They will receive an initial training session before the start of the project on the accounting system, the
ADS's operational manual, and on its reporting requirements. Social partners will be audited regularly as
part of ADS's overall annual external audit on a sample basis. They also will be audited by the internal
audit of ADS using their own audit procedures. The internal audit will adopt a risk based approach.
Social partners will also have training on particular issues as these arise. A close follow-up will take place
by the ADS' agents de suivi (in charge of follow-up) after the receipt of the monthly reports.
The Internal Control System
Financial Control. This control is exercised at several levels: the ADS as a whole, the Accounting
Officer, and internal audits. As previously mentioned, the financial controller conducts routine checks of
expenditure documentation before clearing them for payment or transfer orders. The fact that he is not
available full-time could lead to bottlenecks in the DFA when the volume of work increases and leads to a
higher number of transactions to be checked. Although it is contemplated in the ADS procedures manual,
the internal audit function is not yet operational. It is expected to be in place next year.
Currently, control is concentrated at the central level in the ADS head office, because regional offices
have not yet been set up and project financing has not yet begun. This situation should be re-examined in
light of the work plan for 2002, especially the opening of three regional offices, in order to ensure that
there is decentralized control and monitoring at the regional level. As mentioned, this control and
monitoring function is to be strengthened by hiring monitoring staff, initially at headquarters and
gradually thereafter in the regions, starting with those where the volume of work is highest and need to be
monitored more closely. The staff hired to do the monitoring will, therefore, perform the aforementioned
function of checking expenditure vouchers before presenting them to the ADS for financing. That
requires that the staff involved must have received training in financial management, procurement, and
monitoring.
Financial Management and Administrative Procedures. The ADS has developed a manual of
procedures that has not yet been adopted by its Board of Directors (a preliminary version was approved
by the Board and modifications were introduced to that version - the ADS will submit the latest version to
its Board for approval at its first meeting). The manual contains the working procedures and the criteria
governing eligibility for project financing by sector, and the approval procedures. A number of other
procedures and forms have also been prepared. These refer in particular to the preparation of standard
documents to be used when projects are implemented, i.e. the standard agreement, simplified procurement
and accounting procedures, and regular reporting requirements by ADS on project implementation as well
as the financing to be provided by the social partners.



59
A review of the standard agreement gave rise to certain observations that need to be incorporated in the
final version of the standard agreement (these observations can be found in Annex 1- in project files).
A list of standard documents discussed during the mission has been prepared and should be appended,
along with the forms, to the procedures manual (see the simplified financial reports in Annex 2 - in
project files).
The manual will be continually updated and refined as needed and in accordance with ADS experience in
the field.
The ADS procedures manual refers to a manual of accounting procedures that does not yet exist. It is
strongly recommended that the completed set of accounting procedures be gathered together in one
manual. These procedures will make it possible to complete the accounting circuit by establishing
financial reports and report frequency. It will specify the set of books to be kept by the accountant, the
frequency with which they have to be updated, the financial and other reports to be prepared to meet
management's needs, and the frequency with which they must be prepared, and the bank reconciliation
required. The manual will also specify the financial and other statements required of the project
implementing partners, and how these are to be processed and recorded. A procedure for cash payments
also needs to be adopted and included in the procedures. As part of the cash management procedure, a
ceiling for the amounts of cash on hands should be determined and applied. It should also be noted that
there are no procedures on how to disburse or track advances for seminars and workshops and eligible
expenses.
The manual should also be reviewed and updated once the acquired software has been purchased and
applied, so that it can include the software application procedures.
A manual of administrative procedures should also be prepared in order to clarify the distinction between
administrative and financial tasks.
Budgetary Control
Budgetary control is carried out in accordance with government regulations, which define the procedures
to be followed. A statement of the budget (expenditure commitments and payments) is prepared regularly.
A copy of this statement is attached. Despite its importance, budgetary control is currently performed
manually. Once an accounting software application is in place, the budgetary control should be linked to
the accounting system and computerized. It is also advisable to establish a link between project physical
progress and the use of funds. Thus, a simplified managerial accounting that links the budget to the
accounts and to physical progress of the project would yield more valuable information (such as unit
costs) which in turn would provide an indication of the effectiveness of the use of funds and facilitate
improved planning and budgeting.
Internal audit
The ADS should fill the internal auditor position as soon as possible in order to strengthen its internal
control systems. It is recommended that an internal auditor position be filled early next fiscal year and
that the corresponding remuneration be allocated in the following year's operating budget. As soon as the
internal auditor is hired, he/she should put in place the procedures needed to ensure that this function is
properly performed. Given the workload expected within a year or two, and the limited capacity of the
internal audit unit (only one person is envisaged), it would be best to focus on auditing sub-projects in



60
accordance with a risk based approach. As with the organizational structure of the ADS as a whole, the
capacity of this unit - organizational structure, number and location of staff, and where they are located -
should be re-examined once the volume of work reaches a certain level in order to ensure that it evolves
in line with actual needs.
Accounting
The ADS is financed by the Moroccan Govermnent under the Budget Law (Loi des Finances) in an
amount not to exceed DH 46 million in 2001, and a World Bank loan of US$5 million, contracted by the
Moroccan Government on its own account to finance the ADS's activities over five years. Local
communities will also help fund ADS activities. The legal terms and conditions of the loan are stipulated
in Loan Agreement and may be further specified through supplementary letters and/or amendment to the
Loan Agreement.
Pursuant to clause 4.01 of the Loan Agreement, the ADS is required to maintain an up-to-date financial
management system, including records and accounts, and to prepare financial statements for the project in
a format conforming to ADS rules and World Bank standards, in such a way as to account appropriately
for the Agency's operations, funds, expenditures, assets, and liabilities. The Agency adopts a double set
of accounting records: one in accordance with government regulations, and the second to comply with the
accrual type of accounting, given it is an autonomous institution. The ADS is also required to keep track
of expenditures from the loan proceeds by category and component of the loan as described in the
Agreement and to maintain the records, books, and supporting vouchers of all expenditures made from
the loan account (the accounting records should refer to all expenditure categories, including SOEs, direct
payments, and replenishment of special accounts).
The ADS' financial statements must include: (i) a balance sheet of the Agency at the close of the financial
year; (ii) a statement of funds received and expenditures incurred by the project for the financial year
ending on that date; and (iii) a reconciliation of the end-year balance of the special account. With regard
to procurement of supplies and services using loan funds, the ADS is required to adhere to the World
Bank's procurement Guidelines.
As a public institution, the ADS abides by the Government's accounting regulations pursuant to Royal
decree No. 330-66 of 10 moharrem 1387 (21 August 1967), which contains the general rules for public
accounts. This decree governs accounting operations and the procedures to be followed. The accounting
involved covers cash and commitments. Entries in the accounts are made under the headings used in the
State budget and appear as such in the operating and/or investment budget allocated to the Agency for the
year. Budgetary control is fairly strict.
As an autonomous institution, the ADS also maintains an accrual accounting system. Currently, the
Moroccan chart of accounts is being adapted to ADS needs to take account of ADS operations. This chart
of accounts has not yet been completed.
Accounting in the ADS today is rudimentary. It is conducted manually using a word-processing program
(MS-Word) and is no more than an overall journal. It is not up-to-date and has not been checked against
bank account movements. Salaries and salary related charges are not recorded and there is no overall cash
flow accounting. Also notable is the lack of records of the ADS' fixed assets and balance sheet at the start
of the first year of operations. The previous accountant used an accounting software, but its outputs were
not clear and could not be continued. As mentioned earlier, the current accountant was not introduced to
the job by his predecessor and cannot access either the software nor the data produced by the latter. The
Bank recommends contacting the predecessor with a view to achieving a smooth transition of job



61
responsibilities. It would also be worth considering the purchase of simple software pending
implementation of the Agency's integrated information system.
There is currently a considerable risk that up-to-date accounting data will not be available for reliable and
timely financial information, for the preparation of requisite financial reports, nor for verification by the
committee of experts or the ADS's extemal auditor. There is a huge and growing accounting backlog.
The Bank recommnends hiring a financial management and accounting firm to produce the mnanual of
procedures, install the software, and help introduce complete and up-to-date accounting.
Financialflows
The Agency receives its funds through a government budgetary allocation according to the annual budget
law transferred from the budget of the Ministere de l'Emploi, de la Formation Professionnelle, du
Developpement Social et de la Solidarite (MEFPDSS).
The government allocation is transferred in installments by the MOF, once the MEFPDSS authorizes
them in writing (by addressing a letter to the MOF) to allocate the budgetary allocation to ADS's
operating and investment budgets.
The money is then transferred to the respective accounts in the Treasury (Tresorerie Generale) under
ADS's name. ADS, in its tum, uses those funds in accordance with its work schedule to cover operating
costs and to carry out projects approved by its Board of Directors.
The same would apply to funds received from the World Bank. Being a financially autonomous public
entity, the ADS is permitted to hold one special account for government budgetary allocations and one for
Bank loans. These accounts will be managed by the ADS. As with other Bank projects implemented by
the Moroccan civil service, withdrawal requests for recovery of advances and for reimbursements based
on SOEs from the Bank, will be presented to the Bank by the Budget Directorate of the Ministry of
Finance. Disbursement procedures are described in the Bank's disbursement manual and will be
explained during the project's launch.
The ADS will submit quarterly project management reports to the Bank once the integrated accounting
and information system is up and running. The Financial Management Report should be in line with the
report format and content attached, as per the Action Plan agreed upon by the Bank mission and ADS
management.
The ADS will also receive contributions from social partners, either in kind or in cash. For cash
contributions from social partners, the ADS must establish a procedure for registering the deposit of such
revenue in a bank account and preparing a summary statement, together with a bank statement confirning
the deposit.
As provided for in the ADS procedures manual, ADS disburses funds for projects, once it has approved
them, in tranches. These tranches must reflect the cash needs of each project as stated at the time of
appraisal.



62
Diagram of the Flow of Funds
g   Ministry ofFiac 
Ministry of Employment (Ministere de
I'Emploi, de la Formation
professionnelle, du Developpement
social et de la Solidarite)
S       ~~~
As stated earlier the social partners are required to submit regular (monthly) reports to the ADS based on
the forms attached to the agreement, and to keep the accounting records and supporting documents for all
expenditure and receipts.
ADS Cash Management
The Financial and Administrative Division of the ADS currently lacks clear cash management
procedures. ADS funds are deposited into an account in the Tresor Public and earn no interest. In order to



63
achieve efficient management of its resources and protect them against inflation, or even to maximize the
return on its available funds, the ADS should adopt cash management procedures as feasible in the
country. It is advisable to invest cash surpluses in short term interest bearing accounts, while ensuring that
they are accessible when needed.
Special Account
A Special ADS Account should be opened in the Trdsor Public for the Japanese Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) grant to be received and managed by the ADS. The ADS has
encountered delays due to red tape. The authorities at the MOF have informed the Bank mission that
permission has already been given and for the ADS to proceed with opening this account around the end
of October.
The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
consultant services, goods, civil works and training while the percentage of financing would be 80 percent
if same are procured locally. As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements
would be completed four months after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard
IBRD documentation.
To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, the Government will
open a Special Account at the General Treasury to cover part of EBRD's share of eligible expenditures to
be managed and administered by the ADS. Authorized allocation of the special account would be
US$750,000 (after an initial period when the authorized allocation will be US$250,000 until the disbursed
amount reaches US$1.5 million) covering an estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures financed by
IBRD. The ADS will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate
supporting documentation for expenditures incunred and will retain and make the documents available for
review by IBRD supervision missions and project auditors. To the extent possible, all of IBRD's share of
expenditures should be paid through the special account. All expenditures eligible for IBRD financing of
less than US$100,000 equivalent would be paid from the Special Account.
The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications (submitted
by the MOF who will be responsible for their preparation following ADS's request and submission of
supporting documentation). This will be done on a monthly basis and will include reconciled bank
statements and other documents as may be required. The authorities at the MOF have assured the Bank
mission that they will submit the withdrawal applications to the Bank within 48 hours, and at most within
a week, from the date they receive the ADS's request and supporting documentation.
The ADS will have to manage its cash needs efficiently, make cash flow projections regularly, and
prepare and present to the Treasury, well in advance, the documentation required. In doing so, the ADS
will ensure that the Special Account with the Bank is funded as needed and will avoid delays that could
affect the availability of resources and project implementation.
External Audit
According to its establishment law, the ADS must annually appoint annually an extemal independent
auditor to audit ADS accounts and present a report to its Board of Directors. In addition, Bank policies
require that an annual extemal audit of the project be carried out in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing and that auditors are acceptable to the Bank. The audit TORs are subject to the
Bank's non objection. The audited financial statements of the project must be submitted to the World
Bank as soon as they become available, and no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.



64
In conducting the audit, the auditors will certify (i) that all supporting documents, records, and accounts
have been kept in respect of all project activities (including expenditures reported via SOEs); (ii) that
goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant financing agreement; and
(iii) that all provided funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant financing
agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency.
In order to fulfill the audit requirement (per the Loan Agreement conditions), the ADS and the Bank
mission discussed draft audit TORs (see Annex 3 - in project files) which can be expanded to include
other stakeholders' audit requirements.
Disbursement Methods
Use of Statements of Expenditure
A World Bank disbursement manual was delivered to the ADS and additional copies are available from
the Bank's Field Office in Rabat. As mentioned, requests for disbursements will be drafted and sent to
the Bank by the disbursement office in the Tresor. These disbursements will be made based on statements
of expenditure and advances to fund the Special Account. The ADS may also use the direct payment
procedure, depending on its needs. Reimbursement based on presentation of statements of expenditure
applies for amounts equal to or below US$200,000 for construction works, US$100,000 for equipment
procurement, and US$50,000 for consulting services. For all expenditures exceeding those amounts,
supporting documents must also be submitted. The documentation corresponding to expenditures equal to
or below these thresholds must be kept by the AlDS and it will be examined by Bank supervision
missions.
Replenishment of the Special Account
Upon request, the Bank will effect an authorized allocation of US$750,000. Initially, the allocation would
be limited to US$250,000, and until the amounts disbursed and committed reach US$1.5 million.
Requests for replenishment would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when approximately 33 percent of
the initial deposit has been used, whichever occurs first. Replenishment requests would be accompanied
by a Special Account bank statement extract and a bank statement reconciliation of the Special Account
with World Bank documents.
As indicated earlier, the Special Account is located at the Tresor Public and managed by the ADS.
Balance sheets, reconciliation, and documentation of withdrawals are kept and prepared by the ADS.
Once payment has been approved and the payment and/or transfer orders have been issued, the Financial
Division of the ADS may then prepare the withdrawal application along with the supporting
documentation, payments summary, bank reconciliation, and the bank statement, and submit them to the
MOF Budget Office, which will then proceed to request replenishment from the World Bank.
Financial Monitoring Reports to be submitted to the Bank
Three months after the initial funds are deposited in the Special Account, and every six months thereafter,
the ADS will submit reports on sources and uses of funds, cash flow projections and cash needs in the
Financial Monitoring Report (FMR). In addition, the report will contain a procurement monitoring
section, and a third section on the physical progress of the project's activities. The FMR summarizes the
financial position of the project.
The formats for these reports are provided in Annex 4. They comprise: (i) a summary cash flow table
showing revenue and expenditure for the project as a whole, regardless of the source of financing, for the



65
quarter just ended and the accumulated totals up to the date of the report; and (ii) a detailed breakdown of
revenue and expenditure by project component for the quarter just ended and the amounts accumulated
since the start of the project in addition to the projected figures in the project appraisal document. The
report will also include an analysis of the discrepancies between the projected and actual figures.
The Financial Management Action Plan
Prior to effectiveness, ADS is expected, and has agreed, to set up an up-to-date accounting system,
including the installation of an accounting software, appoint a fill time internal control officer (Agent
Comptable), finalize its accounting and financial procedures manual, and appoint independent external
auditors acceptable to the Bank for the first year of operations according to agreed TORs. ADS will
submit to the Bank before loan effectiveness, the auditors' management letter detailing the internal control
system based on the first year audit. A Bank mission is scheduled to take place before effectiveness. It
will review implementation progress of the action plan and the quality of the actions implemented. If
actions agreed were not taken or prove to be unsatisfactory, the mission will agree with ADS on remedial
actions to be taken prior to loan effectiveness as needed. Funding for the action plan will be provided by
the PHRD and ADS' own operational expense budget (case of Agent Comptable and external auditors).
ADS is committed to having an adequate FMS in place as soon as possible and before effectiveness.
Action               Implementation   By whom         Remarks
Deadline
1.    Setting up an up-to-date  In progress    Administration
Accounting system.                             and Finance
Division
XAFD).
Appoint a consulting firm to  In progress  AFD         Three firms have submitted a
assist ADS in establishing an                                bid offer. The technical
accounting system.                                           committee had a meeting on
March 7, 2002 to select a
firm. The contract will begin
on April 8, 2002 and end
June 4, 2002.
Set up an accounting code for the  Before loan  AFD           The accounting code used by
information needs of the ADS.    effectiveness               the ADS should enable it to
gather accounting data
according to the public
budget and the categories,
components and sub-
components of the project as
per the loan agreement.
*     Open and maintain          In progress   AFD           Done on Excel tables
accounting books (Cash book,
salaries, fixed assets register, ...)
*     Update the accounting      In progress   AFD           Done on Excel tables
books with all the transactions
since ADS started operations.



66
*    Select and install an       Before loan  DG
accounting software to enable ADS  effectiveness  (Director
to update and maintain the                    General)
accounting records until the                  and AFD
integrated system is designed and
finalized.
*    Develop accounting, financial  Before    DG and       The procedures will be for
and administrative procedures.    December    AFD          ADS's own financial
31, 2002                 management and for the
financial management of the
sub-projects and the type of
assistance ADS can provide
according to the needs of the
beneficiaries.
*    Update the procedures manual Done        DG and
to take into consideration the Bank's         ADS
mission comments related to the
financial management per the attached
annex.
2.    Strengthen ADS internal                 DG with the
control system to enable it to play its        Board of
role and meet its fiduciary                   Directors of
requirements.                                 ADS
*    Recruit the Agent Comptable  Before      DG
on a full time basis.           January 1st,
2003
*    Fill the position of the internal  Before  DG
auditor.                          January 1st,
2003      _
*    Prepare and implement an    Before       DG and      These procedures should be
internal audit procedures manual  January 1st,  approval of  prepared in light of the overall
2003        the Board of procedures framework to be
Directors of  developed for the accounting
_   ADS         and administrative system.
3.   Bank's financial reporting   Before      AFD          The report can be produced by
requirements. The integrated      January 1st              the temporary software in
information system should take into  2003                  place-accounting system and
consideration the ADS and the                              Excel- until it is later part of the
various stakeholders reporting                             planned integrated management
requirements. A draft Bank Financial                       information system.
Management Report (FMR)                                    The first report will be sent to
containing all the information                            the Bank six months after the
requested by the Bank should be                            loan effectiveness.
prepared and sent to the Bank, once
all the reports have been integrated.
The draft should be sent to the Bank
for review and comments before the
FMR is finalized.                                  _



67
The project file contains the following in addition to this annex 6:
* Comments provided to the ADS on the standard contract with their intermediaries.
* Financial forms to be annexed to the contract with intermediaries.
* Terms of Reference for the external audit.
* Formats for the financial management reports to be submitted to the Bank



68
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
Project Schedule                    Planned-                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     10                       10
First Bank mission (Identification)           01/22/2001                01/22/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    10/29/2001               10/16/2001
Negotlatfons                                  03/04/2002                03/04/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 08/01/2002
Prepared by:
Social Development Agency
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant TF026821
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Yasser El-Gammal                 Operations Officer - TTL / Procurement Accredited staff
Dung Pham                        Operations Officer - procurement
Rafika Chaouali                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist
David Robalino                   Economist
Concepcion Esperanza Del Castillo  Sr. Social Scientist
Hocine Chalal                    Environmental Specialist
Ferid Belhaj                     Sr. Counsel
Hovsep Melkonian                 Sr. Disbursement Officer
Emma Etori                       Team assistant



69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
ADS Operational Manual
EMP
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial assessment
Procurement assessment
C. Other
* Comments provided to the ADS on the standard contract with their intermediaries.
* Financial forms to be annexed to the contract with intermediaries.
* Terms of Reference for the external audit.
* Formats for the financial management reports to be submitted to the Bank.
*Including electronic files



70
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
07-Nov-2001
Difference between
expected
Original Amount In US$ Millions                          and actual
clsbursementsa
Project ID          Purpose                                IBRD         IDA               GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig       Frrn
FY                                                                                                                   Revd
P056978      2001  IRRIGATION BASED COOUIJNITY                32.57      0.00               0.00      0.00     30.55     0.00      0.00
POSS736     20o1   DEVELOPMENT                                65.00      0.00               0.00      0.00    85.00     65.00      0.00
P048314      2000  MA4NFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE                0.00      0.00               9.80      0.00      9.38     2.16      0.00
PO3916     200o   SECTOR                                      5.30      0.00               0.00      0.00      4.83     0.51      0.00
P06s757     2000   MAPOTECTED AREAS MANAGEMENT                 2.20      0.00               0.00      o.o0      1.97     0.83      0.00
P006624      1999  LEGALANDJUDICIALDEVELOPMENT                14.00      0.0                0.00      0.00     10.68     9.43      0.00
P00625      1999  SUSTAINABLE COASTAL TOURISM                66.00      0.00               0.00      0.00    49.77     53.40      2.25
P005519      19i9  DEVELOPMENT                                 4.00      0.00               0.0       0.00      3.49     1.84      0.00
PO2247      1999  MA4 ESIMEDINA REHAB.                        5.00      0.00               0.00      0.0       3.39     2.32      0.00
P040s6s      1996  HEALTH MANAGEMENT                           10.00     0.00               0.00      0.00      2.43     3.45      0.14
P005523      1998  LAKHDARWATERSHED3G                         70.00      0.00               0.00      0.00     11.12    17.79     -5.48
P005521      1968  PILOT FISHERIES DEV.                       20.ao      0.00               0.00      1.81     13.39     9.47      0.00
P043726      1997  RURALW.S.ASANITATN                         85.ao      0.00               o.00      0.00     59.43    53.55      0.00
P038979      1997  MUNICIPAL FINANCEII                        23.CO      0.00               0.00      0.00     11.58     15.00     9.00
PO05501      1996  WATER RESOURCE MGMT.                       840o       0.00               0.0       0.      28.14      15.56     0.40
P005503      1996  RAILWAY RESTR & PRIV                       49.0o      0.00               0.00      0.00     29.83    21.96      0.00
P042414      1996  PSD III-VOC TRG.                           28.C0      0.00               0.00      0.00      4.96     1.51      0.00
P042415     199    SPI - EDUCATION                            6s.co      0.00               0.00      0.00      8.66     2.99      0.00
P005489      1995  SEW.& WATER REUSE II                       57.60      0.00               0.00      0.00      5.69     12.70     3.67
POOS435      1994  COOR/MONSOCIALPRO                         180.C0      0.00               0.00     70.98     17.56     90.73    17.07
SPI- HEALTH
MA-SECONDARY ROADS
WATER SUPPLY V
Total:     809.57      0.00              9.80      72.79    372.06    380.21     27.05



71
MOROCCO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                    Di8bursed
IFC                          IFC
FY Approval          Company                  Loan  Equity  Quasi   Partic  Loan Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995                 Attijari                  0.00   0.48   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.48    0.00   0.00
2000                 Maghreb Inv. Mgt          0.00   0.02   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.02    0.00   0.00
2000                 Maghreb Invest P          0.00   5.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   1.25    0.00   0.00
2001                 Medi Telecom             66.38   0.00  22.13 307.64   66.38   0.00   22.13 307.64
1994/96              Mediafinance              0.00   0.66   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.66    0.00   0.00
1999                 Settavex                  0.00   9.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   9.00    0.00   0.00
Total Portfolio:     66.38  15.16   22.13  307.64  66.38  11.41  22.13 307.64
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                         Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00



72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOROCCO: Support for the Social Development Agency Project
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         & North   middle-
Morocco     Africa   Income      Development dlamond
2000
Populatlon, mid-year (millions)                     28.7       296     2,046                Ui eexpectancy
GNl percaplta (Atlas method, US$J                   1.180    2,040     1,140
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                    33.9       602     2.327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        1.7      2.0       1.0
Laborforce (%)                                       2.6       2.8       1.3     GNI                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below natonal poverty line)  19
Urban population (% of tota poPulation)               56        59        42
Life expectancy at birth (yeansJ                      67        68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              49        44        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                11          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% ot population)  82        89        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulaton age 15+)                    51        35        15
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)      88        95       114        -     Morocco
Male                                                97       102       116              Lower-middleIncome group
Female                                              74        88       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1960     1990      1999      2000
Economic aUos
GDP (US$ billions)                          18.8    25.8      35.0      33.5
Gross domestic Investment/GDP               24.2    25.3      24.2      24.5                     Trade
Exports of goods and servIces/GDP           17.4    26.5      30.1      31.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  13.7     19.3     20.1      18.1
Gross national savings/GDP                  17.4    24.7       23.0     22.9
Current account balance/GDP                 -7.5     -0.8      -0.4     -1.6      Domestic       i           nvestmen
Interest payments/GDP                        3.5     3.1       3.0       3.3       +savine
Total debVGDP                               49.2     94.7      54.5     593      sI
Total debt senrvcelexpots                   33.1    20.1      23.9      27.5
Present value of debt/GDP                                     49.2
Present value of debt/exports                                1:34.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  tJ90-00    199       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.2      2.2    -0.7       0.8       4.4               Mo,oCco
GDP per capita                      2.0      0.4    -2.3      -0.9       2.7         -     Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       7.9     4.8      6.7      -0.6       6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       40
Agriculture                                 18.4     17.7     14.8      12.6
Industry                                   30.9     32.4      :32.7     33.4     20
Manufacturing                             16 8     18.4      17.3      17.9
Services                                    50.6    49.9      52.6      54.0 
Private consumpton                          67.9    65.2      60.6      65.6    -20
General govemment consumption               18.3    15.5      19.3      16.3                    G
Imports of goods and services              27.9     32.4      34.2      37.8 8aG01                      ~    QDP
1980-90  1990400     1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                  6.7    -1.3      -19.8    -14.0    30
Industry                                    3.0      3.1       2.5       3.0     20                    _0
Manufactunng                               4.1      2.7       2.5       4.0       I   A                   .
Services                                    4.2      2.7       3.3       3.0            :_
Private consumption                         4.3      2.6      -4.1       0.7            05 i       0    sa    r9
General govemment consumPtion               2.1      3.1       6.2      -3.8    -10
Gross domestic Investment                    1.2     2.6       6.9       4.1            -     Eixports   *   Impr
Imports ot goods and services               3.4      5.7       5.3      -2.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The dlamonds show tour key indicators In the country (in bold) compared wlth Its Income-group average. i data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



73
Morocco
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                            9.4      7.0      0.7      1.9
Implicit GDP deflator                     15.2      5.5      0.9      2.5      4
Goveemment finance                                                            2
(% of GDP, includes cuffent grants)
Current revenue                           20.9     24.0     27.1     26.2            95    as    97   99   O99     D
Current budget balance                     -0.5     2.1      1.1     -0.3                 GOP deflator    pCi
Overall surplus/deficit                   -9.7     -3.5      -3.8    -6.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      2,450    4,955     7,372   7,314     19,000
Agriculture and food items               762     1,232    1,590    1542
Phosphate rock                           765      437      434      431     1
Manufactures                             387    2,246     4,085    4,137    10000
Total imports (cif)                      4,266    7,442    10,804   11,505
Food                                     720      584     1,177    1,371                            J
Fuel and energy                         1,006   1,171     1,330    2,022
Capital goods                            806    1,875     2,830    2,391       o
94  99   Qs   97   aa  99   00
Export price index (199S-100)               86      84        87       88
Import price index (199&-100)               88      93        89       98                 * Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995-100)                   97      90        98       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services            3,273    6,830 1)0,648    10,512     1
Imports of goods and services            5,247    8,374    11 964  12,652
Resource balance                         -1,974  -1,544    -1,317   -2,140    o
Net Income                                -562     -985     -977     -798    -1   E        * 
Net current transfers                    1,117    2,325     2,137   2,408     2
Current account balance                  -1,420    -204     -156     -531             f
-3
Financing items (net)                    1,390    1,845    1,795      122
Changes in net reserves                     30   -1,641    -t1638     409    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      ..    2,130    5,920    5,714
Conversion rate (DEC, localUS$)            3.9      8.2      9.8     10.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2000 debt (US mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     9,258   24,458    19,060   19.856
IBRD                                     539    3,099    3,194    2,837                     G: 183
IDA                                       39      39        28       27                            A 2,837
Total debt service                       1,448    1,794     3,047    3,534                               B: 27
IBRD                                      78     428       514      497
IDA                                        1       1         2        2       F 6.968
Composition of net resource flows                                                                           D: 3.469
Official grants                           75     480        ..       ..                    ..
Offidal creditors                        752     790      -226     -535
Private creditors                        642     176      -212      396
Foreign direct investment                 89     165       839      103
Portfolio equity                           0       0                                          E: 6,372
Worid Bank program
Commitments                              148     402       356        8     A- IBRD                   E - ilateral
Disbursements                             65     426       404      138    1e- IDA   D- Other rmitilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                      29     203       304      308     C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                 36     223       101     -171
Interest payments                         49     227       212      191
Net transfers                            -14      -3      -111     -361
Development Economics                                                                                         9/20/01






Tsrr~e~.~.. IA D-q.
'- -T     Toouor,
ielo Al Hocemrn
Larocheo  !        jch0lchoo   0 o           Nodor'
t   .          -U7L:I15   J,  J k  ,  j  Gujdo<3\ To Oran
a  .3 O*:0n'i                                Gulda1 K  '(yerT Oran)
/O&EAt*.~~~~~~ ~~'~' '"~~~~'~~'~~                      I            I~a,a.~nate- /
Ie-nr*         I,  .!r ..,ers.            taJ,                  i . '  i. ado
Kend,a0       i        K-o en;        .    T c. :.     ;           J
Rabat. . T             i                                                       !
EAohornm.d--        - -.        --             '   r.,.
Comablanc,                           -  Isis                        -)
J,'rf Lotn jjrt-  -.                                           (j',P;:l.,d  _  /                       .
- Ell                 OuJd       , ad(a
Jol'r-.  L oBr6i-
'al.z; r     -      '1eN                                                                  ( Figuig
a br,zlF   .....   -.u   ._                            (     -\        -   -_ '_J)  3
-  r. ., ,,.   \E^ovcsAZ;lk}           fo~~~~~~~~~~r,-c.d^ c t d~ --J                       To BeniOunif
Lakhd srAzia               -Is'Thd'1                                        (vers Beni-Ouni;;
- , to f ra*cl- It                                              ___              Ta Bechar
Es'saou,ra'.j                     , - F,l.a.nc,t~r                           . ! CSso           r               {(vers Bechar)
-'                                   .. .-                I,-:11
----  -     . --                      0                 MOROCCO
A.goadr            ,r:- 3 -rJirrf                        \4,                    M                  M    A   RO     C
MAIN ROADS
S-d   O Iy,                                                                                           ROUTES PRINCIPALES
T,  0  qjIl                 s-1----r _r.,,- T\t  RAILROADS
S |d B Cd. IJ G 1 j    -J PTJ 1z.                                                                               VOeES FERREES
S, d. Boulldo'l e C,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~~PPORTS
'  t                                                   +    A!RPORTS
5  50  100  150                  -'4-  ~~~~~~~~~AIRPORTS
/ 5      i      10AEROPORTS
-a,                   KILOMETERS KILOMETRES                    ---RIVERS
FLEUVES
. _I nr. . r-;       / ~. . . a. . .  .- ~ . -5 ,-'  -  sree par le deportement de  This map was produced by the  PROVINCE CAPITALS
. .....s-  1.  I e: que asondiale. Les  Map Design Unit of The World Bank.  CAPITALES DES PROVINCES
.r      1.: . .- -  .1:: i: . Ies denons,otions et toute  The boundaries, colors, denoninations    NATIONAL CAPITAL
tars- loin',, - -                                         ......................... ;. - .;l .-. ant sur la pr6sente c arte   and anyother information shown on
-   -  -.                           .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-  Ida Group. d. la Bon qua  this snap do not in,ply, on the part oP
I              '-eat ~~~~~qaorst oa statat  The World Rank Group, ony judgment  NENTINLBUDRE
To 5N.            -                               -     I   L   .1.eq nque et ne   on the legalstatus of oy territory, or  PRONTILRES INTERNATIONALES
: i,lrt, .51 --.1                                             e I- Grouperecon-nitoun  any endorsenent or acceptonce of  --  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES IAPPROXIMATEI )
-3<                                                 |       acceptn ces troot,eres.           such boundaries.                      FRONTiERES INTERNATtONALES (APPROXIMATiVES _
o  12'                                                        E                                                           4'                                           r 



