                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR0000983




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-46610 TF-26821 TF-54628)




                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 5.8 MILLION
                          (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                              KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                      FOR A

              SUPPORT FOR THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY

                                     PROJECT




                                   April 30, 2009




Human Development Sector
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2008)

           Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                   Dirham 1.00 = US$0.137
                     US$1.00 = MAD 7.29

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1- December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADS         Agence de Développement Social
            (Social Development Agency)
BAJ         Barnamaj Aoulaouiyat Jtimaiya, Social Priorities Program
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DGCL        Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales
            (Local Government Directorate in the Ministry of the Interior )
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
FMS         Financial Management System
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GoM         Government of Morocco
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IGAs        Income-generating activities
INDH        National Initiative for Human Development
ISR         Implementation Supervision Report
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MEFPDSS     Ministère de l'Emploi, de la Formation Professionnelle, du
            Développement Social et de la Solidarité (Minister of Employment,
            Vocational Training Social Development and Solidarity)
MFIs        Micro-finance Institutions
MIS         Management Information System
MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
MOF         Ministry of Finance
NGO         Non-governmental Organization
O&M         Operations and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PADEST      Programme d'Appui au Développement Stratégique et Territorial
            (Support to the Strategic and Territorial Development Program)
PDOs        Project Development Objectives
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development (Japanese grant)
SWAp        Sector-wide Approach




                               ii

Vice President:       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:     Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:       Roberta Gatti
Project Team Leader:  Dung-Kim Pham
ICR Team Leader:      Nadine Poupart




                      iii

                                                   MOROCCO
                Support For The Social Development Agency Project




                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS




A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary....................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff.................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis.................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................viii
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................ ix
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. ix

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16

ANNEXES
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 21
Table 2: Local contribution as share of direct costs ..................................................... 22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40




                                                         iv

A. Basic Information


                                                           Support for the Social Development
Country:              Morocco         Project Name:
                                                           Agency Project



Project ID            P073531         L/C/TF Number(s):    IBRD-46610,TF-26821,TF-54628



ICR Date:                             ICR Type:            Core ICR
                      04/30/2009



Lending Instrument:   SIL             Borrower:            GOVERNMENT OF MOROCCO



Original Total
                      USD 5.0M        Disbursed Amount:    USD 6.2M
Commitment:



Environmental Category: B



Implementing Agencies:
Social Development Agency



Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:



B. Key Dates
         Process             Date             Process        Original Date Revised / Actual Date
Concept Review:            04/17/2001 Effectiveness:          08/01/2002          05/22/2003
Appraisal:                 10/16/2001 Restructuring(s):
Approval:                  06/04/2002 Mid-term Review:        03/07/2005          03/07/2005
                                      Closing:                06/30/2008          06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                Moderate



                                           v

Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                    Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:              Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately UnsatisfactoryImplementing
                                                   Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory    Performance:          Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

        Implementation Performance              Indicators    QAG Assessments
                                                                    (if any)             Rating

Potential Problem Project at any time (Yes/No): Yes          Quality at Entry (QEA): None
                                                             Quality of Supervision   Moderately
Problem Project at any time (Yes/No):           Yes
                                                             (QSA):                   Satisfactory
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:       Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                           21                 23
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                                 32
Irrigation and drainage                                            22                 15
Micro- and SME finance                                             21
Other social services                                              15                  1
Roads and highways                                                 21                 17


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                               Primary           Not Applicable
Improving labor markets                                            Primary            Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                                 Primary             Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                  Primary             Primary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                            Primary            Secondary


E. Bank Staff
          Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Mats Karlsson                     Christian Delvoie



                                               vi

Sector Manager:            Roberta V. Gatti                    Jacques F. Baudouy
Project Team Leader:       Dung-Kim Pham                       Yasser A.Awny El-Gammal
ICR Team Leader:           Nadine T. Poupart
ICR Primary Authors:       Jerome F. Chevallier
                           Baya Benhassine



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
(i) Test new approaches for delivering social services in a more relevant and cost effective
manner by supporting the establishment of a participative demand-driven mechanism that
would reach out to poor communities; and
(ii) Better organize local communities to take charge of setting development priorities and
implementing development activities by strengthening the capacity of local NGOs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N.A.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                           Original Target              Formally         Actual Value
                                                                                         Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value              Values                 Revised
                                            (from approval                Target         Completion

                                              documents)                  Values          or Target
                                                                                            Years

Indicator 1 :   Identification of sub-projects is achieved through a participative and demand-driven
                approach.
                None. ADS was a
                recently created
Value           entity and was           The participatory
quantitative or starting to learn        approach becomes ADS                          No data available
Qualitative)    from other               modus operandi
                international
                experiences.
Date achieved 05/03/2002                 06/30/2008                                    06/30/2008
Comments        According to the 2008 impact evaluation, this approach was followed. In some cases,
(incl. %        however, beneficiary participation was limited to initial meetings (before sub-project
achievement)    start-up). This impact evaluation assessment is not substantiated by quantitative data.




                                                vii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                                          Actual Value
                                          Original Target Values           Formally       Achieved at
     Indicator    Baseline Value              (from approval           Revised Target     Completion
                                                documents)                  Values         or Target
                                                                                             Years
Indicator 1 :  Number of sub-projects funded in different geographical rural and urban slum areas.
Value                                   100 subprojects funded by
(quantitative  No sub-projects          mid project, and                                 268
or Qualitative)funded                   200 by project end
Date achieved 05/03/2002                06/30/2008                                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The target value was surpassed.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Number of beneficiaries (direct and indirect) reached
Value                                   200,000 by mid-project, and
(quantitative  No beneficiaries         400,000 by project end                           462,830
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/03/2002                06/30/2008                                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       This target value was surpassed.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Project beneficiaries are female
Value
(quantitative  No beneficiaries         At least 35% of project                          49%
or Qualitative)                         beneficiaries are female

Date achieved 05/03/2002                06/30/2008                                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The target value was surpassed.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Funds are targeted to rural areas
Value
(quantitative  No financing took        At least 70% of ADS funds                        77%
or Qualitative)place                    are targeted to rural areas

Date achieved 05/03/2002                06/30/2008                                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       The target value was surpassed.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


      No.        Date ISR                                                           Actual Disbursemen
                 Archived                    DO                         IP               (USD millions)
       1        08/26/2002                Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  0.00
       2        02/26/2003                Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  0.00
       3        07/24/2003                Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  0.07



                                               viii

     4        01/30/2004     Unsatisfactory    Satisfactory    0.07
     5        07/29/2004     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    0.44
     6        03/11/2005     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    1.09
     7        04/26/2005     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    1.44
     8        11/30/2005     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    2.02
     9        06/15/2006     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    2.90
     10       12/22/2006     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    3.80
     11       06/08/2007     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    4.09
     12       12/21/2007     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    4.78
     13       06/18/2008     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    5.26
     14       06/30/2008     Satisfactory      Satisfactory    5.56



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                   ix

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      In the four years before the project was approved, Morocco went through a major
opening of the political process and civil society. In April 1998, the main opposition parties
formed a government for the first time since Morocco's independence. In July 1999, King
Mohamed VI came to the throne and gave a new impetus to the emergence of village associations
and other non-governmental organizations (NGOs) initiated by King Hassan II. In spite of the
continuation of economic and social reforms, however, economic growth was slow, resulting in
stagnation of per capita incomes. Access to basic social services improved, but social indicators
were less than average for lower-middle income countries with similar GDP per capita. During
the 1990s, poverty and vulnerability increased from 13 percent to 19 percent and from 35 percent
to 44 percent, respectively.

2.      This worsening of poverty was mostly due to persisting large disparities in social services
between rural and urban areas. In addition, weak economic infrastructure in rural areas prevented
the rural population from benefiting from a diversification of their sources of income.
Agricultural production continued to be highly vulnerable to droughts. This situation fuelled the
migration of people to cities, which increased the pressures on urban slum areas, where living
conditions were particularly harsh. Beginning in the early 1990s, a number of NGOs became
active in micro-credit programs, but these reached only a tiny proportion of the potential
beneficiaries.

3.      Better access to social services in rural areas was constrained by a lack of coordination
among government agencies, a top-down approach in most government interventions, and poor
targeting of social programs. In 1999, the Government established the Social Development
Agency (Agence de Développement Social, ADS) with the mandate of improving the living
conditions of the most vulnerable populations. Although participation approaches had been tested
in the country before,1 for the first time in Morocco, a government program was specifically
designed to develop tools and procedures, and strengthen local capacity for the implementation of
multisector bottom-up initiatives nation-wide.

4.      A five-year Development Plan was approved by Parliament in July 2000. Its objectives
were to: (i) accelerate growth to 5 percent through continued structural reforms; (ii) improve the
poverty focus of public policies and expenditures; (iii) enhance public sector efficiency through
decentralization and increased accountability; and (iv) reduce vulnerability to droughts through a
variety of programs. ADS was expected to play a major role in supporting integrated and
participatory programs for poverty reduction.

5.      The 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) supported the objectives of the Plan and
proposed to focus on promoting human development and inclusion policies in the poorest areas,
enhancing conditions for growth and private sector development, reducing the vulnerability of the
poor, particularly in rural areas, and improving governance. Taking account of other partners'



1Ref. Approches participatives au Maroc : Bilan de l'expérience et recommandations pour la mise en
oeuvre de l'Initiative Nationale de Développement Humain (INDH), Mehdi Zirari, January 2006.




                                                   1

programs, the CAS emphasized rural development, social development, public sector reform and
support to the emerging civil society.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators


6.      The project supported the overall goal of ADS of introducing new approaches and
mechanisms for reaching poor communities and vulnerable groups. Its specific objectives, as
presented in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (p.2) were to: (i) test new approaches for
delivering social services in a more relevant and cost effective manner by supporting the
establishment of a participative demand-driven mechanism that would reach out to poor
communities; and (ii) better organize local communities to take charge of setting development
priorities and implementing development activities by strengthening the capacity of local NGOs.
The first objective was worded slightly differently in Annex 1 of the PAD: To develop a relevant,
cost effective and participatory approach to delivering social services.

7.      In the Loan Agreement, the project objective was again defined differently. It was to
develop and strengthen participative and local programs to reduce poverty and vulnerability and
improve the range of services and economic opportunities available to the poorer segments of the
population through the carrying out of social, economic, infrastructure and capacity building
programs           in        the          project       area.               This          Report
evaluates the project against this objective.

8.      Key performance indicators were as follows:

                  ADS uses a participative and demand-driven approach to identify sub-projects.
                  ADS funds at least 100 sub-projects by mid-project and 200 by project end in
                     different geographical rural and urban slum areas.
                  ADS reaches the poor and vulnerable.
                  At least 200,000 beneficiaries are reached by mid-project and 400,000 by the end
                     of the project.
                  At least 35 percent of project beneficiaries are girls/women.
                  At least 70 percent of ADS funds are targeted to rural areas.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

9.      The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The ADS targeted poor and vulnerable groups in both rural and urban areas. The project
was designed to support sub-projects in 8 of the 16 regions of Morocco. The 2005 amendment of
the Loan Agreement allowed adding 4 more regions. In these regions, priority was to be given to
the following populations:

                      Populations living in remote isolated areas;
                      Populations in rural areas with social indicators below the country's average;
                      Populations with limited access to social services;
                      Female-headed households;


                                                 2

                      Poor populations who are economically active;
                      People with special needs;
                      Unskilled unemployed; and
                      Populations with no regular stable income.


1.5 Original Components

11.     The project included four components as follows:

12.     Community development and social infrastructure (US$3 million). This component
would support sub-projects to enhance the social infrastructure of selected poor rural and urban
slum areas. Support would be based on demand and cover areas from basic education and
primary health care to literacy activities and rural drinking water. Support would be extended to
various aspects, from construction and training activities to helping communities coordinate to
maintain and operate the infrastructure.

13.     Support to economic infrastructure and income generation (US$1.25 million). This
component would support: (i) sub-projects that enhance the economic infrastructure in rural and
urban slum areas, such as irrigation, small markets and rural roads; (ii) sub-projects that finance
training and non-financial support to activities directly related to creating employment
opportunities or expanding existing micro or small businesses; and (iii) sub-projects that support
the expansion of the existing micro finance operations to new geographical areas.

14.     Institutional development for intermediaries (US$0.5 million). This component would
increase the effectiveness of the first two components by enhancing the capacity of ADS
intermediaries to identify, appraise, implement and maintain sub-projects.

15.     Studies and ADS capacity building (US$0.25 million). This component would assist the
agency in learning from experiences in other countries, enhance ADS management's
understanding of specific technical issues like micro finance, and support the establishment of a
comprehensive monitoring system for the agency's program.

1.6 Revised Components

16.     Revision of project components was not deemed necessary despite the evolution of ADS
during the course of project implementation. ADS, which was originally largely involved in the
financing of community social and economic infrastructure (supported by components 1 and 2 of
the project), decided to relinquish gradually its role in infrastructure sub-projects, and to focus on:
(a) local participatory diagnostics and planning, capacity building programs for local
governments, NGOs and associations, and coordination of development partner initiatives
(covered by component 3); (b) income-generating activities or IGAs (covered by component 2);
and to a lesser extent, (c) small urban activities and testing new approaches in human
development (early childhood development, gender, HIV/AIDS, youth, environment, etc.). This
strategic reorientation was due to: (a) the relatively small budget of ADS and the belief of its
management that the agency's impact would be greater by focusing on "soft" activities (e.g.,
capacity building, IGAs) rather than "hard" ones (infrastructure building); and (b) the launching
of the King's National Initiative for Human Development (INDH) in May 2005, which gave the
Ministry of the Interior the central responsibility, in conjunction with other ministries, to
operationalize the promotion and support to participatory poverty-reduction sub-projects in target



                                                   3

areas.2 Implementation of the program is the responsibility of local, provincial and regional
committees composed of government officials, elected officials and representatives from the civil
society.   In December 2006, the Bank approved a US$100 million loan for a Sector-wide
Approach (SWAp) in support of the INDH program, for which the Government also allocated
MAD 10 billion (about US$1.2 billion) over a five-year period. Even if INDH was not meant to
be a substitute to existing programs, ADS felt that its role should evolve to complement this much
larger program.

17.       The reasons for not revising project components were that: (i) the focus of ADS evolved
from 2005 onwards, but this evolution was very progressive and most of the sub-projects had
been approved before its operationalization (mid-2006 onwards); and (ii) project activities were
still relevant and able to cover the two main axes of this repositioning.




1.7 Other significant changes

N.A.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.       Discussions between Morocco and the Bank on the merits of a social fund approach
started in 1997. In 2000, the Bank prepared a poverty note, which provided a good analysis of
trends in poverty and social conditions, and proposed a detailed set of recommendations to reduce
poverty, including promoting sustained economic growth, improving the efficiency and quality of
public expenditures in social services, better targeting of social safety nets, and implementation of
effective decentralization policies. Empowerment of the poor was considered an important
element to fight poverty.

19.       Soundness of the background analysis. The poverty note provided solid material for
project preparation. The project was fully aligned with the 2001 CAS, which was sharply focused
on the poverty challenge, particularly in rural areas.        The option of using existing social
assistance mechanisms, such as Promotion Nationale - a public works employment program - or
the two Foundations (Mohamed V and Hassan II), was considered, but rejected for the following
reasons: the first institution was operating with a top-down approach, and the two others focused
too much on charitable activities (according to the PAD). Only small scale sub-projects would be
financed to ensure the poverty focus of activities. Credit to small enterprises and micro finance
intermediaries (MFIs) was considered, but was not included because experience with social funds
in other countries was not encouraging and financing was not the critical issue for these programs.
On the other hand, building the capacity of MFIs to enable them to expand their activities was
deemed important and was addressed in the project design.

20.       Lessons from global social fund experience and from the Social Priorities Program (also
called the Barnamaj Aoulaouiyat Jtimaiya or BAJ Program) in Morocco were taken into account,



2 INDH targets 403 poor communes and 264 urban neighborhoods.



                                                  4

particularly the need to include representatives of private sector, civil society and key government
agencies in the board of the fund, ex-post financial controls instead of ex-ante, the separation of
responsibilities between the board and management of the fund, and the need to fully involve
local communities from the onset of the sub project cycle.

21.      Assessment of the project design. The project was expected to assist the recently created
ADS to introduce new approaches and mechanisms in the delivery of socio-economic services to
poor communities and vulnerable groups. Social infrastructure, IGAs and capacity building were
emphasized. However, at the appraisal stage, there seemed to be confusion about whether the
project was designed to test these approaches and mechanisms and demonstrate their
effectiveness, or to support scaling up of a national program. This is evidenced by the different
objectives formulations. It is also evidenced by the fact that in the PAD a pilot phase was
envisaged for 2-3 years to test the system and approaches but was not implemented as such, as the
Government of Morocco (GoM) felt that ADS operation had already been tested in 2000-2001
prior to project start-up. Before Board approval of the project, ADS already had in place a small
core of staff in Rabat and in the regions, a draft operational manual was available and a first batch
of fifteen sub-projects was being appraised. Targeting beneficiaries was to be achieved through
the ranking of regions according to a well developed set of social indicators, the nature of eligible
activities and sectoral criteria to avoid duplications. Simplified procedures were established.
Social and environmental factors were carefully analyzed. The loan amount was small as the
GoM was mostly interested in the technical assistance provided by the Bank team during
supervision missions.

22.      Due to GoM's preferences and despite the Bank's recommendations, the design of this
social fund, however, did not fully reflect best international practices, in particularly on: (i) the
need for a non-sectoral supervising Ministry; and (ii) flexible staffing procedures and competitive
wages. In addition, key sectors (e.g. health and education) were not represented on the Board.
Finally, a plan for establishing a strong Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system was missing,
and this, conjugated with inadequate attention to M&E during supervision, affected final
evaluation of project outcomes.

23.      Adequacy of government's commitment. The Government designated ADS as the main
poverty reduction tool in its five-year development plan and allocated about US$32 million to its
activities during 2001-2004. Yet, it took some time for the Government to fully adhere to the new
approach proposed under the project, which entailed a major change in its traditional poverty
alleviation programs. The Minister of Employment, Vocational Training Social Development and
Solidarity (MEFPDSS), who championed the establishment of ADS, left his office in 2001,
leaving ADS without much political support. The government commitment built up over time,
but the support of line ministries remained lukewarm. In addition, recruitment of high caliber
candidates to manage ADS was made difficult by the procedures and regulations imposed by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). The 1999 Law creating ADS placed the institution under the
supervision of a sector ministry, the MEFPDSS, which based on international experience, would
create coordination problems. This "tutelle" was not changed despite the Bank's continued
requests to place ADS under the Prime Minister's Office.

24.      Assessment of risks. The overall risk of the project was rightly rated as substantial. Four
types of risks were discussed, namely, the lack of flexibility in procedures (sub-project approval
and personnel policies), political pressures to target specific areas, poor cooperation with line
ministries and local governments, particularly in providing operating resources, and weak
commitment of local communities to participate in the project. The mitigation measures were
overall adequate. For example, to address the rigid "Statute of personnel" followed by ADS, the


                                                   5

Bank had an intense dialogue with the MOF. The initial operation manual was revised with the
Bank's support to address the risk of political pressure. The risk of Operations and Maintenance
(O&M) was to be addressed by regular coordination with line ministries and local governments.

2.2 Implementation

25.     Signing of the loan and project agreements was done 8 months after Board approval
which delayed project effectiveness. Project implementation continued to be affected by delays
in the definition of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the GoM and ADS,
provision of budget allocations by the MOF, delay in the request for the first disbursement, and
the cumbersome personnel recruitment and management procedures imposed by the MOF. This
led the Bank to rate the Project Development Objective "unsatisfactory" from October 2003 to
June 2004. The Bank considered cancelling the loan which led the Government to resolve some
of these issues (e.g., approval of the 2004 budget and first disbursement). In addition, ADS was
supervised by a sector ministry (the MEFPDSS) which was not able to coordinate effectively with
other government agencies. In 2004, the supervising ministry of ADS changed to another sector
ministry, the newly created Ministry of Social Development, Family and Solidarity which
contributed to improvement in its operations because of a stronger relevance of its objectives with
those of the Agency. The agency's modus operandi and activities developed, and new donors
joined the support of ADS, including the European Union, the French Development Agency
(Agence Française de Développement), Canada, GTZ, and UNDP. The establishment of the
INDH program in 2005 led ADS to proactively and gradually switch its activities from financing
community infrastructure to supporting mainly capacity building of local governments, NGOs
and associations, and income generating activities.         Initial problems with procurement and
financial management were corrected (see Section 2.4).

26.     At the end of the project, the Bank canceled Euro 1 million (out of Euro 5.8 million).
ADS monitored disbursements using only the MAD currency equivalent amount calculated at
appraisal, and this amount was fully disbursed. However, this ignored the large exchange rate
fluctuations that occurred between the Euro and the MAD during the implementation period.
Due to the depreciation of the dollar against the Euro, total disbursement of the project in dollar
terms was higher (US$6.2 million equivalent) than the total project cost in dollar equivalent at
appraisal time (US$5 million equivalent).


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

27.     Indicators selected to assess the achievement of project objectives were simple and easy
to measure. They measured process, and provided useful information on outputs and overall
outcomes. It would have been useful, however, to include some indicators on ADS sub-project
outcomes in terms of access to economic and social services. This would have allowed a better
measurement of PDO achievement.

28.     The PAD did not discuss M&E arrangements. In 2005, Bank supervision missions raised
the issue of establishing an adequate M&E system, as the system in place was rudimentary. It
allowed for the monitoring of physical and financial implementation of sub-projects, but did not
provide periodic information on unit costs or utilization rates of infrastructure. It did not attempt
to measure the impact of activities supported by the project on household living conditions. In
mid-2006, ADS hired a consultant to design and establish a comprehensive computerized M&E
system, but it is only after project closing that a first version of the new system was being tested.



                                                   6

This shortcoming could have been avoided if the Bank team had made ADS benefit from other
social fund experiences by simply adapting one of the existing social fund software to its needs.

29.      In April 2006, the Bank organized a video conference between ADS and the World Bank
Chief Economist for Human Development to discuss potential approaches for an impact
evaluation. In 2008, ADS hired a consulting firm to evaluate the impact of sub-projects supported
by the Bank Loan. The Bank provided support by: (a) financing an international consultant to
advise ADS on the methodology; and (b) accompanying ADS staff to a regional workshop in
Egypt on impact evaluation (January 2008). This effort occurred late in the consulting firm
selection process, and was not able to influence the quality of the evaluation report. The study
was based on interviews of key stakeholders, and a desk study of a sample of 61 sub-projects,
completed by a field survey of local population who benefited from a sub-set of 15 sub-projects.
The consultants provided some qualitative information on the project's achievements, but were
not able to make an informed assessment of the cost efficiency of ADS approaches or the impact
of its activities on the well-being of the beneficiaries. The survey sample was too small to draw
conclusions by sector. The report did not include data to substantiate its qualitative assessments,
nor any unit cost estimate.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

30.      During project preparation, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was formulated,
as well as a set of guidelines for mainstreaming environmental concerns in the implementing
agency's operations. These guidelines were incorporated in the ADS operational manual. The
project provided for capacity building in addressing environmental issues in sub-project appraisal
and supervision. The extent to which the environmental guidelines were fully adhered to is not
clear, however. Supervision missions did not monitor this aspect.

31.      A temporary financial management system was to be used during the initial two years of
ADS' operations. As part of project preparation, a PHRD grant from Japan was mobilized by the
Bank team to help ADS develop a full-fledged financial management system and a management
information system (MIS). The first financial audit report of the project, for the period ending
December 31, 2004, was received by the Bank 3 weeks late, with a qualified opinion. The report
pointed to: (i) a number of expenditures made for sub-projects implemented in areas that were
not covered by the project (approximately US$150,000); and (ii) the inclusion of value-added tax
in consultant services (approximately US$7,000). These deficiencies were corrected and
subsequent audit reports were unqualified and received on time.

32.      The bulk of procurement would take place at the community level. The size of sub-
projects would be small on average (about US$50,000) and not exceed US$200,000. In remote
areas, ADS would provide technical assistance to local communities and NGOs on procurement.
An ex-post procurement review, undertaken in 2005, revealed a number of weaknesses in three
areas: (a) use of local procedures instead of Bank guidelines for bid opening; (b) inadequate
filing; and (c) lack of human resources and material in the regional coordination offices. The last
ex-post review conducted in June 2007 raised the need to:            (a) incorporate a section on
procurement in the operation manual, and use it; and (b) develop standard bidding and evaluation
documents. In addition, the post review continued to raise the issue of filing. The June 2008
supervision mission noted that these recommendations had been only partially implemented.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase




                                                 7

33.      Over the life of the project, ADS has developed into a critical instrument for supporting
local initiatives, and is recognized as such. The INDH National Coordination requested ADS to
play a role in the program. A MOU between INDH National Coordination and ADS was signed
in September 2006, in which ADS would be helping local communities identify their needs,
prepare development plans, and support sub-project implementation. This MOU was eventually
disseminated to all 70 provinces through INDH's provincial committees. Each province was
responsible for defining its own action plan with ADS according to its specific needs. In practice,
however, this partnership has remained modest with only 14 INDH provinces actively involving
ADS despite broad needs in the INDH program for ADS competencies on participatory planning
and capacity building. This may be due to: (a) insufficient promotion of ADS capacities by ADS
itself and its supervising ministry; (b) the cost of ADS' services which is considered too high by
some provinces (ADS covers only one-third of the cost); and (c) priority often given by provinces
to social infrastructure development rather than to "soft" activities. As a second phase of the
INDH program is under preparation, it will be necessary to draw the lessons from this MOU and
define a new MOU that maximizes the benefits that ADS can bring to the program.

34.      More recently, ADS has been mobilized by the Local Government Directorate in the
Ministry of the Interior (DGCL) to help local governments identify their needs with civil society
input, prepare and implement their development sub-projects in a participatory process, and
establish M&E systems at the local levels. Through this program (Programme d'Appui au
Développement Stratégique et Territorial or PADEST), the Agency is also expected to contribute
to the capacity building of local governments, NGOs and associations in selected INDH and non-
INDH communes. The agency is currently discussing with the MOF its 2009-2012 program
estimated at MAD 3 billion, of which a third will be financed directly by the state budget with the
remainder to be financed by local partnerships and donors.

35.      Discussions to support a second phase of the INDH program, under which ADS could
have a more institutionalized role, are under way in the context of the new Country Partnership
Strategy under preparation. In addition, discussions about supporting ADS in its new strategy are
also ongoing. Although ADS' sustainability is not at stake, its limited Government budget makes
the agency dependant on its resource mobilization capacity (from donors, local administrations,
etc.).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

36.      Delivering social and economic services to poor communities and vulnerable groups in a
cost effective manner through a participative demand-driven approach was highly relevant at the
time of appraisal, and remains a priority for the Government. This objective and approach are
now also supported on a larger scale by the INDH Program. Relevance of the project design has
changed however, as ADS no longer seeks to build infrastructure, but rather to complement the
INDH program by focusing more prominently on the capacity building or "soft" element that
needs to accompany community infrastructure sub-projects. This capacity building is done
through comprehensive training of local governments and associations in participatory
approaches, establishment of regional/local development strategies and plans, and preparation and
implementation of sub-projects.      This allows full participation of civil society in the local
development process.




                                                  8

37.      The project was fully consistent with the 2001 and the 2005 CAS (No. 31 879-MA, June
2005). The 2001 CAS focused on reducing poverty, particularly in marginalized rural areas. The
2005 CAS sought to contribute to accelerating sustainable and employment generating growth
and reducing poverty and marginalization. It focused on increasing access to basic services by the
poor and marginalized groups, including reducing the number of households living in slums by
60 percent and improving access to basic services, social programs, and economic opportunities
in pockets of poverty and vulnerability. The CAS progress report (No. 41254-MA, November
2007) confirms the relevance of these objectives. Improving services to vulnerable citizens will
likely constitute one of the three pillars of the new Country Partnership Strategy under
preparation. In this context, support to a second phase of INDH is also being discussed.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

38.      The project has overall achieved its objectives. Although the Bank's contribution to ADS
activities since inception has been modest (less than 10 percent of total financial resources
mobilized), it has helped build up the competency and autonomy of the agency. The project has
helped setting up of an institution, which has made a difference in Morocco, by being the first
agency to support nation-wide bottom up initiatives for improving the economic and social
conditions of vulnerable groups in the poorest areas.

39.      According to the impact evaluation, and although this was not quantitatively measured,
ADS is seen by its stakeholders as the administrative structure responsible for introducing in
Morocco direct beneficiary participation in local programs to reduce poverty and vulnerability.
The fact that DGCL and INDH are contracting out ADS to provide the "soft" services needed for
participatory approaches (see para. 33 and 34) also illustrates that ADS has made a reputation for
itself as an agency that uses such an approach well. According to the impact evaluation, the
participative approach has been effective in the identification of needs, but less so in sub-project
implementation. The Bank loan has helped co-finance 268 sub-projects (of which 60 are still
under implementation; see Annex 2) requested by beneficiaries and benefiting directly or
indirectly 462,830 people. This is higher than the target of 200 sub-projects benefiting 400,000
people. Due to a high demand for its services, and its limited budget, ADS has progressively been
able to increase the percentage of local contribution to 60 percent, an exceptional rate for a social
fund. At least 35 percent of beneficiaries were to be female. Actually this percentage is much
higher at 49 percent thanks to a strict adherence to the gender equity criteria for sub-project
approval. At least 70 percent of funds were to be targeted to rural areas. These areas received the
bulk of funding (86.4 percent of the total). Out of the 268 sub-projects supported by the project,
145 were for community development and social infrastructure (Component 1), 86 for economic
infrastructure and income generation activities (Component 2), and 37 for capacity building of
stakeholders (Component 3). Under component 4, the impact evaluation already mentioned was
financed.

40.      As indicated above, the M&E system was rudimentary and did not allow for assessing
ADS' efficiency and sub-project impacts. In October 2008, consultants issued a report on impact
evaluation of sub-projects supported by ADS. They sampled 61 sub-projects out of the 477
completed with ADS financing in December 2006. They carried out an in depth evaluation of
fifteen sub-projects further selected on the basis of geographical, activity and size criteria. Overall,
the sub-projects visited achieved their objectives. In many cases, however, the sustainability of
the sub-projects remains an issue, as little was done to ensure that beneficiaries or relevant
administrations (besides general conventions between ADS and sector ministries) would be
mobilized to maintain the facilities. The sustainability of sub-projects was strong in the irrigation



                                                  9

and water supply sectors, average in the areas of training and rural roads, and weak as far as
education sub-projects were concerned.

3.3 Efficiency


41.     No attempt was made to estimate net present value or the economic rate of return of
income generating sub-projects financed by the loan. The consultants, who prepared the impact
evaluation report, noted that productivity and incomes of the few productive sub-projects they
visited had increased, but the sample was much too small to generalize this statement. Out of the
61 sub-projects in the sample, they obtained information on investment costs for 20 only of them.
Overall, they did not find any major cost overruns.

42.     ADS unit cost estimates were calculated as part of the INDH preparation process. Figures
collected from other government programs were not directly comparable to those calculated for
ADS, since type and scope of works vary as well as accompanying social measures. Yet the cost
ranges for ADS sub-projects were deemed to be satisfactory in terms of their cost-efficiency (see
Annex 3).

43.     In 2005, consultants prepared an assessment of ADS performance. They emphasized
weaknesses in technical studies for sub-projects, the lack of decision making delegation to
regional levels, and delays in sub-projects implementation due to cumbersome procedures,
including procurement. The impact evaluation report confirms that a number of sub-projects
suffered from long implementation delays, which were due in particular to limited capacities of
contracting agencies.    But efforts have been made to remedy the centralized decision making
process in two ways : (i) ADS has very recently increased the level of responsibility of its 16
regional branches; and (ii) the Agency's annual work programs are now prepared using a
"bottom-up" approach. Finally the operation manual was revised to simplify procurement
procedures.




3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


44.     The approach supported by the project was highly relevant to the country needs and the
project overall achieved its objective. Despite a difficult institutional environment that initially
slowed down implementation, the project was able to support the development of participatory
and local programs to reduce poverty and vulnerability in Morocco, as specified in the Loan
Agreement and against which the ICR rates the project. The project has helped ADS establish a
reputation for itself in this area, as evidenced by the two MOUs signed with the Ministry of
Interior (INDH and PADEST), and the large number of financial partners, including donors. In
2005, INDH was launched as the Government's primary program for poverty reduction,
expanding approaches tested under the project. The project's targets were exceeded, with higher
than anticipated numbers of sub-projects and beneficiaries, especially women.           They are
indications that ADS-financed sub-projects are cost-effective. The project limitations have been
correctly identified by the agency which has proactively addressed them (sustained dialogue with




                                               10

the MOF to increase flexibility on staffing, new M&E system, stronger focus on O&M, new
organizational chart etc.).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

45.      During the project implementation period, poverty and vulnerability have decreased. The
poverty rate dropped from 15.3 percent in 2001 to 9 percent in 2007 and the vulnerability rate
from 22.8 percent to 17.5 percent. While this achievement is the result of a number of policies
and programs, the project has likely made a contribution to this improvement.

46.      The large majority of project beneficiaries were poor and vulnerable groups. The impact
evaluation study showed that two-thirds of the beneficiaries were poor, including 20 percent very
poor. An additional 26 percent of beneficiaries were among vulnerable groups. Only a small
proportion of beneficiaries (8 percent) were better off.

47.      As indicated above, while at least 35 percent of beneficiaries were expected to be women,
the project was able to mobilize women's energies and support sub-projects initiated by them.
Almost half of project beneficiaries were female.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

48.      ADS started as a small agency with a tiny team of highly motivated individuals in
September 2001. It has now more 345 staff in all 16 regions of Morocco. The overall budget of
the agency was multiplied by 10 since its creation. During 2002-07, ADS was able to co-finance a
total of 1,687 sub-projects for close to 3 million beneficiaries across the country. During project
supervision, the Bank provided some support to the Agency's overall organization and systems.
The agency is now well structured but some departments (Finances, Human Resources, M&E)
still need to be strengthened. Also, equipment and staffing have not followed the rapid growth of
the agency's activities. ADS is fully conscious of these constraints, and has, among other actions
taken, developed a new organizational framework under discussion with the MOF.

49.      ADS has been successful in scaling up its activities by developing local partnerships and
mobilizing significant donor support. After a fast growth period, ADS is consolidating as an
institution devoted to helping local governments develop and implement plans established with
civil society participation. It has built up a capacity already used under the INDH program and by
the DGCL, but that could be more widely drawn on. This will require that its role in the
institutional framework established for territorial development and poverty reduction be clarified,
with the help of ADS' supervising ministry. ADS also needs to become more visible and assert
itself by: (a) documenting more systematically its activities; and (b) communicating more widely
on its new strategic axes, approaches, methods and impacts.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

50.      An impact which had not been anticipated during appraisal was the role ADS played in
the implementation of INDH. During project supervision, the Bank team emphasized the
consistency between ADS' broad mandate and the new initiative. Eventually, this led to the
signing of the agreement between ADS and the INDH's steering committee in September 2006,
to strengthen the capacity of local stakeholders (see Section 2.5).



                                                   11

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshop

N.A.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

51.      The major risk to development outcome is the lack of resources for operation and
maintenance of some facilities built with project assistance. As indicated above, this is indeed a
problem in a number of cases. The extent of the problem is not known with sufficient accuracy,
however. It is important for ADS to carry out an inventory of such situations and make detailed
recommendations on how to correct them and to prevent such problems from occurring in the
future. ADS is fully aware of the issue, and has decided in 2009 to systematically ensure that
beneficiaries would receive continued support for at least two years after physical completion of
their sub-projects. Although the operations manual recommended post completion follow-up, it
was not applied consistently, mainly due to lack of ADS personnel in the regions, relatively weak
cooperation with deconcentrated services (despite the signature of a large number of conventions
between ADS and sector ministries), and limited budget of municipalities that were ultimately
responsible for maintenance.

52.      Another risk to development outcome is the unclear role of ADS as an instrument of
change. It is therefore important to draw lessons from the implementation of the current MOU
between INDH and ADS, and revise it as needed to ensure the best use of ADS capacity in the
INDH program. More generally, the specific value added of ADS in the territorial development
and in the poverty reduction agendas of the Government should be clarified. The upcoming
preparation of a second phase of the INDH program, and the ongoing preparation of a Targeting
and Social Protection Strategy, including an institutional assessment of key institutions involved
in poverty reduction programs, such as ADS, provide a good opportunity for this clarification.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

53.      For a long time the Bank had been concerned with the slow pace in improving social
indicators and addressing deep poverty issues in Morocco. The political transition set in motion
with the appointment of a new government in 1998 and the accession of Mohammed VI to the
throne in 1999 provided an opportunity to do things differently. In 1999, the GoM took the
initiative of establishing ADS. The Bank seized the opportunity to support the initiative, which
developed a new way of helping poor communities take responsibility for their own development.

54.      The project was identified in January 2001 and appraised in October of the same year.
During identification and preparation, the Bank exposed different government entities to other
countries experiences with social funds through workshops and study tours. The Bank mobilized
resources through a PHRD grant to help the Government improve an existing operational manual,



                                               12

identify sub-projects and assess the capacity of microfinance institutions to support local
initiatives in a sustainable way.

55.      The PDOs were well defined. They were relatively modest and coherent with the small
loan amount. The project rightly did not seek to achieve ambitious poverty reduction goals. The
indicators were overall adequate, although the project could have included some indicators to
measure ADS sub-project outcomes (e.g., access to economic and social services). This would
have allowed a better measurement of PDO achievement..

56.      The team was candid about the risks facing the project. The PAD acknowledged that
ADS did not fully follow social fund best practices. Being supervised by a technical ministry
rather than the Prime Minister's Office, ADS had little standing working with key ministries. The
agency's personnel and financial management policies imposed by the MOF diminished the
flexibility that usually characterizes social funds. These aspects seemed to be non-negotiable
with the Government. Taking these risks proved to be the right choice as it allowed the Bank to
accompany ADS in its positive evolution.

57.      However, besides these risks taken, other issues undermined effective implementation of
the project at an early stage, and could have been addressed before effectiveness (absence of a
MOU between the GOM and ADS, establishment of an organizational framework, 2003 budget
approval, etc.). In addition, the Project documents demonstrate a lack of clarity as to the
objectives of the project (see para. 21). This lack of clarity on whether the project was to help set
up the institution or was to concentrate on testing participatory approaches continued during
supervision (see below). A good M&E framework was missing. It should have received full
attention if the project was to "test" new approaches, and if a pilot phase of two to three years was
envisaged, as stated in the PAD.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

58.      Supervision was proactive and of good quality, but did not cover all aspects typically
monitored in social fund projects due to: (a) the team's effort to try and solve other issues; and
possibly (b) the limited social fund experience of the supervision team leaders. Early on, the
attention of supervision missions and Bank management was mostly focused on solving the basic
issues concerning the management and financing of ADS. The team was rightly concerned to
ensure loan disbursement. This took time and energy to resolve (including a consideration of loan
suspension and cancellation at the early stage of implementation). Bank missions assisted ADS to
deliver its work program despite these lingering issues, often bridging the gap in communication
and rapport between the MOF and ADS.          Missions also helped ADS reposition itself with the
start-up of the INDH program.          They were supportive of the adjustment of ADS to new
circumstances when the Government launched its INDH. Supervision missions ensured that
agreements on fiduciary aspects were upheld.

59.      Supervision, however, paid limited attention to several important implementation issues.
First, Bank supervisions mission focused insufficiently on the participatory processes used by
ADS, which were at the heart of the project objectives. Aide-mémoires did not include analysis
and recommendations of the processes followed. This shortcoming was raised by the Quality of
Supervision Assessment in 2004, but was not acted upon by the Bank team. Second, attention to
the O&M issue was limited.           Third, missions did not supervise ADS' compliance with


                                                 13

requirements under the EMP. Fourth, the Bank early on was not proactive in helping ADS
establish an M&E system. Following the mid-term review of the project in 2005, the Bank
addressed the problem, and mobilized a PHRD grant to assist ADS to improve its supervision of
sub-projects through the setting up of an M&E system and revision of the operational manual. At
project completion, the new M&E system was still being tested, and the Bank's technical support
to the 2008 impact evaluation did not result in a quality study. Finally, Implementation Progress
was rated "satisfactory" throughout implementation, which did not reflect the difficulties faced by
the project during the early stages.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.     After several years of dialogue, the Bank sized the opportunity to support in Morocco a
new way of improving the living conditions of the poor when it presented. The Bank facilitated a
considerable amount of transfer of knowledge and the project risks were well identified and
consciously taken. The inconsistence in the PDO between the PAD and Legal Agreement did not
negatively impact implementation. At entry, the M&E system should have been better planned.
Supervision was proactive and of good quality concerning institutional, financial, strategic and
fiduciary issues. Much time was spent early on during project implementation in trying to bring
about solutions to institutional and financial problems, as the team was keen to make the project
disburse adequately. As a result, other issues such as participative approaches followed by ADS,
environmental requirements, M&E, O&M, were neglected. The lack of social fund experience of
the teams who took over the project during supervision may also have been at stake.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

61.     Although the Government had designated ADS as the main poverty reduction tool in its
five-year development plan, its commitment to the agency was initially lukewarm. It however
built up over time. The Government was also reluctant to give ADS the autonomy required to
deliver its work program. ADS was put under the supervision of a line ministry, which did not
have sufficient clout to establish good working relationships with the central ministries or with
sectoral ministries such as those in charge of education and health, for instance. The Board of
Directors of ADS did not meet during the first eighteen months of project implementation, which
delayed key decisions concerning the budget and personnel policies. Eventually these problems
were overcome and the Government has acknowledged the key role that ADS can play in the
implementation of INDH, and in the support to territorial development. The role of ADS in this
context and in the poverty reduction agenda remains, however, to be clarified.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

62.     In a short period of time and despite inadequate support from Government in its early
days, ADS has been able to develop into a key agency for implementing poverty reduction



                                                 14

activities. It has grown into an institution which is present in all provinces of the country. It has
developed a capacity to interact with the poorest segments of Morocco's population and nurture
local initiatives, which are now well established. Its solid reputation has contributed to the
mobilization of additional resources for its development programs. It has been able to adjust
strategically to the new situation created by INDH, by relinquishing its role in financing
community infrastructure to INDH, and making use of what the Agency felt was its comparative
advantage namely capacity building of local stakeholders, and IGAs.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

63.      Despite considerable efforts made by ADS to build up the capacity of local communities
to identify, prepare and implement sub-projects, the above rating is justified by the tepid support
the Government gave to the project in the early years, which led to the slow start-up of the project.

6. Lessons Learned


64.      The Bank should continue to support risky operations with small loans that have
high expected returns. With the political opening and the emergence of NGOs as key players in
poverty alleviation, there was an opportunity for the Bank to share its experience with social
funds, and help Morocco move from a top-down approach to a more participative one. The team
knew that not all conditions for the establishment of a social fund that follows international best
practices (tutelle, budgetary process, staffing and salary, etc.) were met. As these issues were
non-negotiable with the Government, the Bank decided to move ahead with the project,
recognizing that this was a risky operation. These constraints were ultimately eased, allowing
ADS to meet overall project objectives.

65.      The proactivity and strategic thinking of ADS management has been key to allowing
ADS to develop a useful "niche" in community development. Through perseverance and by
adopting an opportunistic approach, ADS management has been able to: (a) operate within a
difficult institutional environment that was not compatible with its mission; (b) develop a new
vision that complements the INDH Program; and (c) make ADS a respected agency that promotes
and implement community programs and has gained the trust of many actors (e.g. Ministry of
Interior, local governments, and a large number of donors).

66.      The role of ADS in the territorial development/poverty reduction agendas should
now be clarified.      ADS has repositioned its role in participatory diagnostic and planning,
capacity building of local actors, and income generating activities. A clearer Government support
for this "niche" could help equip the agency with the resources that would be needed to maximize
its impact on poverty. The social agenda is large and complex. Several entities and/or programs
can be the implementing vehicles but their roles and responsibilities need to be well-delineated,
promoting coherence/complementary of interventions and avoiding overlap.

67.      A strong M&E is important under any circumstances. The lack of attention to the
M&E system during preparation and the early stage of supervision prevents a full assessment of
the cost effectiveness of ADS' approaches to community participation or capacity building of
local actors. A strengthened M&E system is also necessary to produce the analysis that can



                                                 15

justify ADS' institutionalization in the territorial development/poverty alleviation agenda by
substantiating its areas of strengths. To do so, it will be important that ADS quickly revise its
M&E framework and adapt it to its new areas of focus. Finally, Bank technical support to the
impact evaluation should have been better planned to influence the quality of the evaluation.

68.     Social fund projects should be supervised by social fund specialists. This helps
projects benefit from all the knowledge on social funds accumulated by the Bank in the last 20
years and from the tools that have been developed. It ensures that critical dimensions of social
funds (such as the participatory process, O&M, and environmental impact) are not missed during
supervision. The project benefited from an excellent exposure to international experience during
preparation when the project was managed by a social fund specialist, but less so during
supervision.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                               16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                 Components                 Appraisal EstimateActual/Latest       EstimatePercentage     of
                                            (USD millions)       (USD millions)             Appraisal

 1- COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT &
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                  8.00                 13.23                  165.37%

 2- ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE
AND INCOME GENERATION                                  3.00                   3.72                  124%

 3- INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
FOR INTERMEDIARIES.                                    1.70                   1.01                  59.41%

 4- STUDIES AND ADS CAPACITY
BUILDING.                                              1.00                   0.95                   95%


            Total Baseline Cost                       13.70.                18.91                  138.03%

Physical Contingencies                                 0.60                   0.00                   0%

Price Contingencies                                    0.70                   0.00                   0%

             Total Project Costs                      15.00                                        126.07%
Front-end fee PPF                                      0.00                   0.00                   0%
Front-end fee IBRD                                     0.75                   0.60                   80%
         Total Financing Required                     15.75                 19.51                  123.87%

(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal         Actual/Latest
             Source of Funds            Type of                                                    Percentage
                                        Cofinancing          Estimate          Estimate
                                                             (USD millions) (USD millions)         Appraisal

 Borrower                               N.A.                 8.00              1.60                20 %
 Local governments and
communities                             N.A.                 2.00              9.40                470%

 International Bank for                                                             (*)
 Reconstruction and Development         N.A.                 5.00              7.03                140.6%


Exchange rate: US$1= MAD 7.8
(*)This amounts differs from the disbursed amount presented on page iv (Basic Information) due to the
difference in exchange rates.




                                                   17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                      COMPONENT 1: Community development and social infrastructure


Sub-component                             Targets               Outcomes     Comments


Sub-projects for          The project being based on demand                  On the basis of preparatory work in the
improving social          from beneficiaries, no target was set   145 sub-   field, water, electricity and rural roads
infrastructure in poor    on number and nature of sub-             projects  were expected to be in high demand. No
rural areas and urban     projects                                           electricity sub-project was implemented.

                                                                       70
   Water and sewerage                                                        81% completed, 17% under execution,
                                                                             and one project cancelled.

                                                                        2
   Basic health services                                                     Both under execution


   Literacy and adult                                                   7
    education                                                                Four still under implementation


                                                                       33    Little demand was expected in this area.
   Education                                                                 Actually sub-projects in the sector
                                                                             amounted to one fourth of the total

                                                                        4
   Community facilities

                                                                       25
   Roads                                                                     Over one half still under execution


                                                                        4
   Environment protection




                                                     18

                 COMPONENT 2: Support to economic and income-generating activities


Sub-component                         Targets  Outcome Comments




Economic infrastructure       See above             28  There was no urban sub-project, contrary to the
                                                        plan in the PAD


                                                    28
   Irrigation                                           90% completed.


Support and training for incom
generating activities:                              57

                                                    28
   Livestock.                                           46% completed.


                                                    1
   Vocational training        .


                                                        Both are still under execution. Weak demand is a
                                                    2
   Handicrafts.               .                         reflection of lack of outlets. Recently ADS has
                                                        stepped up its support to building up trade
                                                        networks

                                                    26
   Agriculture                .                         58% completed


Support to micro-finance                            1

                                                    1
   Financial services




                                              19

                    COMPONENT 3: Institutional development of intermediaries


Sub-component                   Targets  Outcome        Comments


Support to local NGOs.  See above.               37

                                                  5
   Training

                                                  1
   Vocational training


   Information and                                8
    sentitization                                       Of which, half are completed


   Capacity building of                          23
                                                        More than half are completed
    partners


                       COMPONENT 4: ADS capacity building and studies

                                         3 activities
                                         Support to project management
ADS capacity building                                                        PHRD grant
                                         Seminar on M&E in Egypt (end 200
                                         Development of IT system.

Studies                                  Impact evaluation.




                                              20

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The PAD, like most PADs for social funds, did not include a cost-benefit analysis, arguing that the
demand-driven nature of the project and therefore the uncertainty in terms of the structure of the
portfolio of sub-projects makes an ex ante cost-benefits analysis of the project very difficult. Instead,
the PAD included a cost effectiveness analysis summary, which laid out the economic rationale for
the project.

At completion of the project, it is difficult to carry out an economic and financial analysis of the
project as a whole, as relevant data have not been collected. It is also difficult to provide an analysis
of the economic impact of ADS sub-projects compared with similar projects supported by other
sources of financing, because a unit cost comparison is not possible with the data at hand. The 2008
impact evaluation was not successful in delivering a thorough analysis of revenue generating sub-
projects, a common method to assess economic efficiency of social funds. With the data available,
however, it is possible to look at the following aspects to assess ADS' economic and financial
performance: (i) internal efficiency, by comparing budget costs with actual costs; and (ii) local
contributions as a share of direct costs in ADS sub-projects. The data is based on an evaluation
carried out on two levels; 61 sub-projects (12.8% of all sub-projects financed by ADS), randomly
selected, composed a first sample for a qualitative analysis of the efficacy and efficiency of ADS sub-
projects. A second sample, consisting of 15 sub-projects of the initial sample, was part of a more
thorough analysis with background information about the geographic area of the project and the
economic context. Here, the study also looked ­ to some extent ­ at costs, beneficiaries and outcomes.

Project efficiency

A problem usually found in social funds is overspending of budgets by sub-projects financed by the
fund. Table 1 looks at four sub-projects in three different sectors (income generating activity, water
and road infrastructure, respectively), and highlights that they were within a 10% range of their
estimated budget. None of these sub-projects overspent more than 8% of estimated costs, while two
out of the four were within 1% of the allocated budget. In the four cases, costs that surpassed the
initial budget were covered by local contributions. The total costs listed in Table 1 show contributions
from both ADS and other sources.

Table 1: Estimated Cost vs. Actual Costs, selected sub-projects
Project                                   Estimated Costs Actual Costs         Difference
Income generating activities
Irrigation
Seguia Torch (FE03A040)                   739,000            765,000           3.52
Beni Snane perimeter (FE03A101)           200,500            202,185           0.84
Water and sewerage
Douars Tachert, Baragha, (AG 02 I 095) 522,317               520,763           -0.30
Roads
Douar Talmest/douar Taouirirt (AG02I05 634,800               687,465           8.30
Source: Universalia, 2008




                                                21

Leveraging of community resources

Local contributions to investment costs can stretch the scarce resources provided by the social fund.
Community resources are typically leveraged in cash or in-kind, mainly donated labor and materials.
The share of non-cash contribution is very high for the sub-projects listed below, making up 90% and
more of community contribution. For ADS, no fixed policies for local contribution had been put in
place. Looking at a total of 10 sub-projects in five different sectors (income generating activities,
promotion of small agricultural activities, water infrastructure, roads, and local capacity building),
Table 2 shows a wide variation in the size of local contribution as a share of direct costs. Ranging
from 28% to almost 60% for single sub-projects and averaging 38% across all sectors, the share of
local contribution for ADS sub-projects is significantly above the international average for
comparable social funds.


Table 2: Local contribution as share of direct costs
Sub-Project                                                   Local Contribution
Income generating activities                                  Amount (MAD) %
Irrigation
Seguia Torch (FE03A040)                                       293,500             39.72
Beni Snane perimeter (FE03A101)                               56,000              27.93
Support to small-scale agricultural activities
Fisheries in Chemlala (OU04A001)                              308,453             43.00
Livestock in Laaouinate (OU05A063)                            22,566              40.00
Water and sewerage
Douars Tachert, Baragha (AG 02 I 095)                         299,317             57.31
Douar Olad Garn (AG05I009)                                    222,880             36.04
Roads
Tnine Adday/Taadirtroad (AG01I013)                            897,033             33.07
Douar Talmest/douar Taouirirt road (AG02I050)                 204,880             32.27
Capacity building
Training
Training for agents in greater Casablanca" (CA05R013)         168,900             41.71
Capacity building for NGO Benslimane Zyada (BE05R011) 38,000                      28.04
Source : Universalia, 2008


Units Costs

Unit cost estimates for certain basic infrastructure and capacity building sub-projects were
estimated in the context of INDH preparation and are shown in Table 3. It is therefore possible
to measure them against unit costs per beneficiary for standard line ministry project.

The Ministry for Infrastructure and Transport indicates unit cost of US$27,300 per km for
unpaved, all weather roads (6 meters large) and of US$12.650 per km for unpaved, dry weather
only roads (2006), while the World Bank financed Second National Program for Rural Roads
estimates the average cost for all weather roads at US$44,150 (2005). According to the Ministry
of Interior and the National Drinking Water Agency (Office National de l'Eau Potable), the cost
per household for water connection amounts to around US$220 in rural areas and US$350 in



                                               22

urban areas, while an individual sanitation connection in urban areas costs on average US$340.
Clearly these figures are not directly comparable to those collected from ADS, since the type and
scope of works may vary as well as the accompanying social measures. However, the cost ranges
for the first ADS water and road sub-projects indicate that ADS approaches are likely to be cost-
efficient.

     Table 3: ADS unit costs for basic infrastructure and capacity-building sub-projects
                                  (2003-2005, ADS calculations)

    Type of ADS Sub-project         Number of      Average Unit Cost     Average Unit Cost
                                   sub-projects         (MAD)                (US$)  (*)

                                   (2003-2005)
 Water (individual connection,             141                 4057.86               427.58
 per household)
 Water (individual connection,             141                  565.54                 59.59
 per beneficiary)
 Sanitation (individual                       9                 734.54                 78.35
 connection per beneficiary)
 Roads (unpaved, per km)                     66            190,874.11            20,112.40
 Education (kindergarten, per                16               1,029.89               108.52
 beneficiary)
 Education (student home, per                76               3,719.37               391.91
 beneficiary)
 Capacity building for local                 15               2 999,90               316,10
 actors (per beneficiary)
(*)Exchange rate on December 1, 2005: MAD 1 = US$0.10537
Source: INDH PAD




                                               23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

               Names                        Title                  Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-
Gammal                          Senior Operations Officer     AFTH3      TTL

Dung-Kim Pham                   Operations Officer            MNSHD      Procurement
Rafika Chaouali                 Sr Financial Management       MNAFM      Financial management
David Robalino                  Senior Economist              HDSNP      Economic analysis
Concepcion Esperanza Del CastilloSr Social Scientist                     Social Analysis
Hocine Chalal                   Environment Specialist        MNACS      Safeguard
Ferid Belhaj                    Sr Counsel                    LEGEM      Senior Council
Hosvep Melkonian                Sr Disbursement Officer       LOADM      Disbursement
Emma Etori                      Team Assistant                MNSHD      Assistance
Supervision/ICR

Anas Abou El Mikias             Sr Financial Management
                                Specialist                    MNAFM      Financial management

Siaka Bakayoko                  Senior Procurement specialist AFCW1      Procurement
Meryem Benchemsi                Consultant                    MNCMA      Financial management
Baya Benhassine                 Consultant                    MNSHD      ICR
Rene Cipriani                   Consultant                    MNSHD      Project Management
Jérome Chevallier               Consultant                    MNSHD      ICR
Ousmane Diagana                 Lead Operations office        AFMNE      TTL

Luca Etter                      Junior Professional Associate MNSHD      RA, Economic and
                                                                         Financial Analysis
Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny El-
Gammal                          Senior Operations Officer     AFTH3      TTL

Paul Geli                       Consultant                               Social Funds
Rebekka Grun                    Economist                     MNSHD      Impact Evaluation
Abdoulaye Keita                 Procurement Specialist        MNAPR      Procurement
Alaleh Motamedi                 Senior Procurement Specialist MNAPR      Procurement

Dung-Kim Pham                   Operations Officer            MNSHD      TTL
                                                                         ICR TTL until Oct 08
Nadine T. Poupart               Senior Economist              MNSHD      ICR TTL after Oct 08
Julia Van Domelen               Consultant                    MNSHD      Impact Evaluation
Erik Whist                      Consultant                    MNSHD
Fatiha Bouamoud                 Program Assistant             MNCMA      Assistance



(b) Staff Time and Cost




                                             24

                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                          No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                               travel and consultant costs
Lending
  FY01                         13                        57.74
  FY02                         26                       136.36
  FY03                           4                       23.52
  FY04                           2                       12.77
  FY05                           1                        8.27
  FY06                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                    0.00
Total:                         46                       238.66
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                    0.00
  FY02                                                    0.00
  FY03                           6                       17.21
  FY04                         14                        78.81
  FY05                         15                        77.05
  FY06                         23                        99.11
  FY07                         14                        71.65
  FY08                         13                        95.97
  FY09                           1                        0.00
Total:                         86                       439.80




                           25

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The draft impact evaluation report submitted by Universalia in October 2008 was discussed during a
workshop in early November 2008. The final report was submitted to the Bank in February 2009.
The report was prepared on the basis of a sample of 61 sub-projects supported by ADS from 2001 to
2006, randomly selected (about 12.8% of total sub-projects completed in December 2006). From
these 61 sub-projects, 15 were selected according to criteria agreed upon with ADS for a field visit
and interviews with beneficiaries.

« Relevance »
Finding 1 : Sub-projects supported by ADS are within its mandate.
Finding 2 : Most sub-projects are relevant and respond to priority needs.
Finding 3 : Sub-projects supported by ADS are aligned with national priorities for social development.

ADS' Strategy
Finding 4 : ADS' involvement in financing sub-projects was in keeping with the context and
resources available. Implementation was effective.
Finding 5 : Transversal approaches suggested by ADS were implemented with varying degrees of
efficiency.

Efficiency of sub-projects
Finding 6 : Main beneficiaries were part of ADS' target populations.
Finding 7 : Sub-projects, which were visited, delivered the expected outputs. For lack of data,
however, it is not possible to conclude whether this was the case also for the larger sample.
Finding 8 : Field visits enabled the consultants to observe that target populations benefited from
changes brought about by the sub-projects.

Project sustainability
Finding 9: Sustainability of is, in some cases, in doubt. Although effective participation of
beneficiaries and stakeholders at the identification phase facilitates project implementation,
participation after completion is insufficient and this has a negative impact on project
sustainability.


Institutional factors affecting project impact
Finding 10 : ADS' sub-projects were implemented in a rapidly changing institutional environment,
which had an impact on results.
Finding 11 : The rapid growth in ADS' activities had an impact on its capacity to supervise its sub-
projects. This was particularly the case in the management of human and financial resources.
Finding 12 : ADS demonstrated a capacity to initiate new approaches; it needs time, however, to
consolidate and better internalize them.
Finding 13 : M&E systems are not sufficiently developed for assessing results and improving the
decision making process.




                                                 26

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N. A.




                                  27

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

ADS was established in 1999 and started its activities in 2001. During the first year of project
implementation the focus was on institutional development and capacity building, and on completing
area programs. During the mid-term review in March 2005, it was agreed that the Loan Agreement
would be amended to increase areas covered by the project, reallocate funds, and introduce single
source contracts. During project implementation, it was agreed to establish regional coordinating
units in all 16 provinces, to bring the project activities closer to the beneficiaries and take into account
local factors. Partnerships were established with local governments and the Funds for local
development.

In 2003, the Bank identified the main constraints to ADS' activities, including a lengthy budgetary
process, rigid recruitment procedures and supervision by a technical ministry. In 2004, the Bank
requested the Government to prepare an action plan to solve these problems. This helped ADS deliver
its work program.

In 2005, the Government launched INDH, which entailed a change in ADS' role. It was no longer in
the business of financing sub-projects. The Bank strongly supported enhanced cooperation between
the two entities. In September 2006 ADS and INDH's steering committee signed a MOU. ADS
became a facilitator for local development through strengthening local capacities.

The Bank has been most helpful during the process leading to the establishment of ADS. It
encouraged other partners to provide support to ADS. It helped define procurement procedures
adapted to the environment, and develop an M&E system. It has consistently stressed the need for
ADS to be autonomous, with flexible procedures and a diversified staff.

During project supervision, the Bank has provided strong support. It has always replied to ADS'
requests diligently. The presence of a Bank staff in Rabat would have been useful.

Project implementation was at times difficult because of conflicting controls by the Bank and the
Government. ADS' autonomy was undermined because it could not get the proceeds of the Bank loan
directly. It was dependent on the Ministry of Finance.

ADS has developed and implemented a human resource policy. Several studies helped define the
organization and management of human resources. A human resources department was created in
May 2007. It has also developed an MIS.

ADS has developed strong working relationships with local governments through the local
development funds established in 2004. It has also encouraged local governments to save and invest
through the mutual funds for local governments. Starting in 2007 ADS has strengthened its regional
coordination offices to better support local governments.

To ensure the sustainability of the sub-projects, ADS emphasizes the need to set up adequate
mechanisms, including the support of relevant technical agencies. After project completion, ADS
ensures a follow up during a two-year period.

ADS has now over 300 staff.. It has gained the trust of local partners and stakeholders. It is playing a
key role in the promotion of local development. It is hampered, however, by limited Government
financing.




                                                  28

                              Borrower's ICR ­ Extended Summary


1. Contexte du Projet

L'Agence de Développement Social est un établissement public créé en 1999, en vertu de la loi 12.99,
qui a débuté son activité en 2001. Dédiée à la réduction de la pauvreté et à la promotion du
développement social au Maroc, sa tutelle est assurée par le Ministère du Développement Social, de
la Famille et de la Solidarité. Son intervention se fait à travers le financement de petits projets de
développement et d'actions en partenariat avec les associations et les institutions élues

Dès janvier 2001, la Banque mondiale a effectué une mission à Rabat destinée à identifier le rôle
potentiel de l'ADS dans la réduction de la pauvreté, à lui apporter son soutien dans les premières
étapes de sa mise en oeuvre, à mobiliser d'autres institutions internationales et à définir un type de
soutien que la Banque serait susceptible de fournir à l'Agence dans ses premières années d'existence.

2. Modalités de mise en oeuvre

Selon l'Accord, il était prévu que l'intervention de l'ADS soit déployée selon deux démarches
complémentaires :
- Programmes intégrés : Développement de programmes intégrés d'actions d'envergure, sur des
zones et/ou communautés afin d'avoir un impact significatif sur les dites zones.
- Programmes sectoriels : Développement de programmes sectoriels ayant pour effet de concentrer
l'action sur des problèmes spécifiques qui accentuent la vulnérabilité et/ou la paupérisation de
certaines franges de la population.

Les structures mises en place et l'organisation d'exécution du projet devaient s'articuler à deux
niveaux :
- Au niveau du Siège :
(i) Comité de Pilotage du Projet (CPP) : Présidé par le Directeur Général, il devait comprendre les
responsables des départements opérationnels, le responsable du Département Administratif et
Financier, le responsable du DPP, du Service de Coopération Internationale et l'UCP.
(ii) Unité de Coordination du Projet (UCP)
(iii)Chaque département opérationnel du siège devait désigner un chargé de projet qui assurerait le
suivi d'exécution des programmes validé par le CPP et la préparation des projets à examiner par le
CAP ou le comité d'éligibilité à ce titre.

- Au niveau des CR :
(i) Les coordinateurs régionaux supervisent les activités du projet qui ont lieu dans leurs zones
d'intervention respectives, ainsi que les activités des agents de développement.
(ii) Pour chaque programme mis en oeuvre, au moins un agent de développement devrait être recruté
pour assurer un travail de proximité et d'appui aux populations bénéficiaires.
(iii) Un réseau de consultants/formateurs <bénévoles> devait être constitué et bénéficier d'une
formation afin d'assurer le relais en matière d'encadrement et de pérennisation d'un développement
local autonome.

La première année du projet devait être consacrée au lancement des actions de développement
institutionnel et de formation; et à la finalisation des programmes par zone d'action. La seconde
année devait être consacrée à la consolidation des actions entamées la première année et à la
finalisation de la programmation des actions prévues.



                                                  29

En mars 2005, une revue à mi-parcours a été effectuée pour évaluer le cadre de fonctionnement de
l'ADS et son impact sur l'atteinte des objectifs de développement. Elle a révélé la nécessité
d'amender l'Accord de prêt à 3 niveaux :

     Elargissement des zones d'intervention du projet : 5 régions supplémentaires, définies par le
         HCP comme étant à forte densité de pauvreté
     Remaniement des catégories de décaissement avec l'apparition des catégories suivantes :
         conventions de partenariat et administration des conventions (fournitures, services de
         consultants pour le renforcement des capacités de l'ADS et les études opérationnelles, coûts
         de formation)
     Introduction de la méthode de passation des marchés par « entente directe » pour des
         prestations de faible valeur qui ne peuvent être fournis que par un seul prestataire.

Aucune révision n'est intervenue sur les composantes du projet.

S'agissant des modalités de mise en oeuvre, suite au départ du Coordonnateur du projet début 2004, le
poste est resté vacant. Le projet a dès lors été intégré dans la gestion courante de l'Agence, les sous
projets étant validés par le Comité d'Approbation des Projets et le projet suivi par le Département
Administratif et Financier et le Département Programmation Suivi & Evaluation de l'Agence.

3. Facteurs clés ayant affecté la mise en oeuvre et les résultats

Il faut citer entre autre :
- La mise en place des coordinations régionales en tant que structures déconcentrées de l'Agence pour
assurer le principe de proximité et prendre en compte les spécificités des régions ;
- Le développement des coordinations régionales et la couverture de l'ensemble des 16 régions du
Maroc, ce qui a permis la présence de l'Agence sur toutes les zones du projet contrairement à ce qui
était le cas au démarrage du projet ;
- Le développement et la mise en place d'un mécanisme de partenariat avec les collectivités locales,
le Fond de Développement Local, (FDL) offrant un cadre favorable à davantage de déconcentration et
d'autonomie de décision sur les projets à financer.

4 . Evènements majeurs dans le cycle du projet

 L'intervention de la Banque comme médiateur. Dès 2003, la Banque a identifié les principales
contraintes altérant le bon fonctionnement de l'Agence : un processus de budgétisation long et pesant,
des procédures de recrutement trop rigides et, en contradiction avec sa nature pluridisciplinaire, le
placement de l'Agence sous la tutelle d'un ministère technique. En 2004, la BM a demandé au
Gouvernement d'établir un plan d'actions en 6 points visant à améliorer certains problèmes et
« permettre à l'ADS de continuer à progresser vers les objectifs de sa mission » Pour faire face à une
situation de blocage, la BM a menacé de suspendre, voire d'annuler le prêt. Cette intervention a
favorisé l'approbation des budgets 2003 et 2004, ainsi que la signature d'une lettre de mission
clarifiant les responsabilités de l'Agence.

 La création d'un Ministère du Développement Social, de la Famille et de la Solidarité, sous la
tutelle duquel l'ADS est placée. En juin 2004, le MDSFS est créé. La tutelle technique de l'ADS
passe alors du ministère de l'Emploi au MDSFS et ce, conformément à la loi portant création de
l'ADS qui stipule que la tutelle technique de l'ADS revient au département chargé du secteur social.
Cette création s'est accompagnée de la constitution du Pôle social qui comprend l'ADS, le MDSFS,




                                                 30

l'Entraide Nationale et le Secrétariat d'Etat chargé de la Femme la Famille et des Personnes
handicapés.

 L'avènement de l'INDH et intervention de la BM pour institutionnaliser le rôle de l'ADS
dans la mise en oeuvre de l'INDH. L'Initiative Nationale pour le Développement Humain, lancée
par Sa Majesté le Roi Mohamed VI en mai 2005, est destinée à combler le retard que le Maroc affiche
dans la réalisation des Objectifs du Millénaire tracés par les Nations Unies. Elle est fondée sur une
vision globale et intégrée du développement social et humain. Elle constitue le référentiel principal
dans le processus de développement humain se basant sur les principes de : Participation, Partenariat,
Bonne Gouvernance, Planification, Convergence.

Ce chantier de règne a induit une révolution des efforts des acteurs de développements du Royaume.
L'approche adoptée permet de mieux cibler les territoires les plus pauvres et d'élaborer et mettre en
oeuvre des actions et des projets plus pertinents et plus efficaces dans les domaines de lutte contre la
pauvreté, la précarité et l'exclusion sociale.

Dès la conception de l'INDH, la Banque Mondiale a souligné que l' « approche mise en oeuvre par
l'ADS s'avère en totale cohérence avec la démarche INDH » (AM ­ 18/12/2006) et a examiné les
modalités permettant une meilleure intégration et une meilleure utilisation de l'ADS dans la mise en
oeuvre de l'INDH : « Ses principes de travail qui reposent sur une stratégie territoriale, sur
l'intégration et la rationalisation des interventions et le suivi et évaluation de ces interventions font de
l'Agence un établissement capable de contribuer à la mise en oeuvre de l'importante INDH »(AM ­
18/12/2006).

La Banque a ainsi appuyé le rapprochement entre les deux entités qui s'est traduit par la signature, en
septembre 2006, d'une convention cadre entre le Comité de Pilotage de l'INDH et l'ADS ; convention
qui a pour objectif d'aider les acteurs locaux, particulièrement les communes rurales, les équipes
d'animation et les associations à se professionnaliser davantage dans le domaine du développement
local. Puis la Banque a insisté auprès du ministère de l'Intérieur pour que cette convention soit
largement diffusée localement.
La Banque n'a eu de cesse d'encourager le Gouvernement marocain à ce que cet apport soit
davantage institutionnalisé, particulièrement en 2007 lors de la forte mobilisation de l'Agence en
faveur d'un appui à l'INDH. Elle a ainsi rappelé la cohérence qui devait prévaloir dans la démarche
gouvernementale : « il est logique que le Gouvernement, qui a beaucoup investi pour la création de
l'Agence et le financement de ses activités, souhaite utiliser pleinement cet établissement public pour
la mise en oeuvre de l'INDH ». (AM ­ 18/12/2006).

 Une nouvelle orientation stratégique de l'ADS en faveur d'une approche territoriale
A l'issue d'une phase pilote (2001-2002) et jusqu'à la fin 2004, l'Agence a utilisé une « approche
guichet » qui a montré ses limites : seules les associations les mieux organisées et les plus outillées
pouvaient postuler pour un appui. Aussi dès 2005, dans un environnement institutionnel en mutation,
l'ADS a réorienté sa stratégie pour la période 2005-2010, adaptant ainsi son intervention aux enjeux
et priorités nationaux. Cette stratégie a progressivement évolué, en particulier après l'avènement de
l'INDH.

L'Agence a choisi de mettre à profit son expérience et son savoir-faire en matière de développement
social en se positionnant, en animateur de territoire. Ce positionnement se matérialise, notamment, à
travers l'appui et le renforcement des capacités des territoires et des acteurs, afin de contribuer à la
convergence des programmes sectoriels et à la mise en synergie des acteurs locaux. Cette orientation
conforte, en outre, la politique de proximité et le besoin de participation.




                                                  31

Cette nouvelle stratégie se traduit par une concentration de l'action de l'Agence sur 4 axes :
 Renforcement des capacités des acteurs locaux, à travers deux programmes majeurs :
      Le Programme d'Appui au Développement Stratégique et Territorial (PADEST), en
         partenariat avec la DGCL et les CPDH ; ce programme vise à :
             o Créer une dynamique durable de développement local au niveau des collectivités
                  locales.
             o Élaborer une stratégie de développement, en faveur de ces collectivités, fondée sur
                  une analyse des besoins et un diagnostic précis des problèmes locaux.
             o Développer des mécanismes institutionnels et organisationnels nouveaux afin
                  d'assurer une implication durable des collectivités dans le processus de
                  développement local et ce dans le cadre d'une démarche qui implique l'ensemble des
                  acteurs locaux dans un plan de développement économique et social participatif.
             o Établir un lien étroit entre le développement économique et le développement social
                  à l'échelon territorial.
             o Et renforcer les capacités des acteurs locaux et des collectivités locales en particulier

      Le programme Tawkia qui vise le renforcement des capacités des associations pour qu'elles
         puissent jouer pleinement leur rôle en tant qu'acteur de développement au niveau des
         territoires   de  la    province   et   particulièrement  dans    les efforts  engagés     pour
         l'opérationnalisation de l'INDH.

 Activités Génératrices de Revenus et d'Emplois
      Appui à des filières régionales ou locales
      Initiation de FREPEs
      Appui au micro-entreprenariat focalisé sur les jeunes
      Elargissement des expériences des Caisses Villageoises

 Développement urbain intégré
      Poursuite des activités MOS en cours
      Développement des activités d'appui au PADEST

 Appui au Développement Humain (handicap, préscolaire, jeunesse, etc.)


 Le don japonais : (TF 054628).
L'ADS a bénéficié d'un don du Japon de mise en oeuvre du présent projet, dont le montant est de
352.100 $. L'Accord est entré en vigueur le 7 juin 2005. [...] A travers le don japonais, entre autre,
l'ADS a lancé une consultation internationale pour le développement et la mise en oeuvre d'un
dispositif de suivi et évaluation. Une première mission a permis de définir le cadre logique analytique
et de développer un certain nombre d'indicateurs pour mesurer les performances de l'Agence.
Il a également permis l'élaboration du manuel des procédures pour des AGR.

5. Performances des intervenants au projet durant les phases de conception et de mise en
oeuvre du projet

 Les performances de la BM
* Apports majeurs de la Banque :
      Soutien initial de la Banque aux premières étapes essentielles de mise en oeuvre de l'ADS
         (ex : conseils sur la structure organisationnelle)
      Interventions de la BM visant à encourager les autres institutions internationales présentes au
         Maroc à soutenir l'ADS naissante. Et par la suite, ses analyses favorables concernant


                                                   32

        l'Agence ont sans aucun doute aidé l'établissement public à gagner la confiance des bailleurs
        internationaux.
     Appuis multiples via l'envoi de consultants : rédaction d'un manuel de procédures
        opérationnelles ; inclusion, dans les procédures, d'aspects relatifs au genre ; rédaction d'un
        document relatif à la politique de l'ADS dans le domaine de l'environnement.

L'appui de la Banque en matière de passation des marchés est ainsi révélateur : Depuis sa création,
l'Agence accorde un intérêt considérable à la normalisation de ses modes de gestion, à
l'harmonisation et la documentation de ses procédures. Cette volonté d'amélioration continue des
procédures s'est traduite par la production de nouvelles versions du manuel des procédures et des
notes intermédiaires. La BM a accompagné l'Agence sur le plan technique pour la définition d'une
nouvelle procédure de passation des marchés appliquée aux projets financés grâce au concours l'ADS.

Par ailleurs, la BM a assisté l'Agence dans la définition des termes de références de la mission portant
sur la simplification des procédures. La simplification s'inscrit dans l'optique de tirer pleinement
profit des vertus d'allégement des procédures et du renforcement du contrôle nécessaire. En effet,
cette mission a pour but la maîtrise des différents processus et la réduction des difficultés ressenties
au niveau de la pratique sur le terrain et auprès des fonctions supports.

En outre, la Banque a contribué par son expertise à la mise en place d'un système de suivi-
évaluation : En 2005 l'Agence a lancé une première consultation internationale pour le
développement et la mise en place d'un système de S&E. Ce système constitue, avant tout, un
instrument opérationnel apte à fournir des indications ­ d'ordre à la fois stratégique, méthodologique,
technique, opérationnel ­ sur l'avancement du programme d'activités, les difficultés rencontrées dans
sa mise en oeuvre et les mesures pouvant surmonter ces difficultés, d'une part ; et d'autre part, sur les
résultats, les effets et les impacts obtenus, après une période donnée, par rapport aux objectifs fixés et
par rapport aux ressources et moyens déployés.

La mission de la BM a permis de définir l'architecture du dispositif du S&E en se basant sur le cadre
logique analytique de l'activité de l'Agence. Une seconde mission a été lancée en 2008 pour
l'opérationnalisation du dispositif à travers le développement des outils de suivi et l'information du
système. A présent, le dispositif est en phase d'implémentation.

Ainsi, de façon générale, la Banque mondiale a toujours oeuvré pour que l'ADS soit dotée d'un statut
autonome avec un cadre de gestion flexible et pluridisciplinaire, ce qui s'est traduit également par une
offre de formations variée et de haut niveau.

  * Formations proposées et organisées par la BM :
A titre d'exemples, durant la période du prêt et particulièrement l'année 2006 et 2007, la Banque a
organisé plusieurs formations dont les principales sessions étaient relatives à la passation des marchés
des projets financés par la Banque.
A travers cette formation, la Banque entendait sensibiliser l'Agence aux principes de base de la
passation des marchés cofinancés par la Banque et effectuer un rappel des dispositions à prendre par
rapport aux problèmes récurrents constatés lors des revues ex-post. Ces sessions furent également
l'occasion d'éclaircir certains aspects des directives de la Banque en rapport avec la gestion des
projets financés sur le prêt.
En outre, dans le cadre du renforcement de capacité des cadres et dirigeants de l'Agence et sur
proposition de la Banque mondiale, une consultante experte en système d'évaluation d'impact a
animé un atelier en janvier 2008. Il a été complété par l'organisation, quelques jours plus tard, au




                                                  33

Caire, d'un atelier sur l'évaluation d'impact des projets de développement, auquel six responsables
de l'ADS, dont le Directeur, ont participé.
La nature interactive de cet atelier, a permis aux cadres de l'Agence de profiter des expériences des
différents pays présents et d'acquérir une vue d'ensemble des techniques de pointe des évaluations
d'impact, leurs usages politiques, ainsi que des connaissances pratiques d'application à leurs propres
projets.

 * Suivi du projet par la BM :
L'équipe de la Banque mondiale s'est toujours montrée attentive et réactive aux requêtes formulées
par les services de l'Agence et le niveau de collaboration est exemplaire. Néanmoins, cette
collaboration aurait certainement gagné en efficacité si un responsable du projet résidant au Maroc
avait été nommé.

 * Modalités de contrôle trop pesantes :
La mise en oeuvre du projet a été quelque peu pénalisée par une certaine lourdeur administrative. En
effet, l'accord de prêt a bien spécifié les contrôles qu'exerce la Banque dans le cadre du projet en plus
du contrôle déjà exercé par l'Agent comptable. D'autres contrôles, à posteriori, sont exercés
notamment par l'Inspection générale des finances et d'autres consultants mandatés par la Banque.
Nous pensons que les modalités de contrôle de l'exécution du projet auraient dû être allégées ou,
éventuellement, mutualisées.

* Une autonomie de gestion entravée :
L'autonomie de gestion préconisée par la BM a toujours été entravée par la nature même du prêt :
bien qu'ayant la capacité juridique et organisationnelle, l'ADS n'a pas eu l'autorisation du Ministère
des Finances de recevoir les fonds directement auprès de la Banque. Cette décision, multipliant les
intermédiaires et interlocuteurs, a eu pour conséquence d'accroître sensiblement la lourdeur
administrative dans la gestion du prêt, mais également une certaine dépendance vis-à-vis de
l'emprunteur direct.
Car avec cette organisation, l'enveloppe budgétaire imputée sur le prêt s'est confondue avec les fonds
et subventions de l'Etat et le prêt BIRD n'est pas intervenu en addition du budget propre de l'ADS.
Le projet aurait probablement gagné en performance si le prêt avait été dissocié de la subvention de
l'Etat, lequel par exemple doit être engagé sur la période du projet et programmé en plus par rapport à
la subvention de l'Etat.
La Banque n'a également pas été entendue du Gouvernement marocain, quand elle a plaidé pour
l'affectation d'un Agent comptable à temps plein, et ce, toujours dans l'objectif d'accroître
l'autonomie financière de l'ADS.


     Performances de l'ADS

* Capacité de l'ADS à diffuser son expérience et ses bonnes pratiques
Présentation du PADEST au Caire : A la fin de l'atelier organisé au Caire par la Banque, en janvier
2008 (voir infra), l'Agence a présenté aux participants internationaux une démarche d'évaluation
pratique du programme PADEST mis en oeuvre dans la Province de Settat et ce, dans le cadre de la
concrétisation des connaissances acquises lors des séances techniques et politiques programmées lors
de l'atelier. Ce plan d'évaluation a semble-t-il été très apprécié de l'auditoire.
Coopération Sud-Sud avec Djibouti : Suite à la rencontre du Caire avec une délégation de Djibouti,
l'ADS a accueilli en août 2007 une mission de l'Agence Djiboutienne d'Exécution des Travaux
d'Intérêt Public, en quête d'informations juridiques et organisationnelles et d'expertise en vue de la
création de l'Agence Djiboutienne de Développement Social. A la demande de son partenaire
djiboutien, l'ADS a envoyé en juin 2008 son Chef du Service Système Information et Réseau en


                                                  34

mission à Djibouti pour contribuer à la mise en place d'un SIG. L'ADS mène actuellement une
réflexion interne afin de définir le contenu de son éventuel partenariat avec l'ADDS.

* Mise en oeuvre d'une politique de ressources humaines performante :
Dès sa création, consciente de la nécessité de se doter de profils de qualité et en adéquation avec la
diversité et la multiplicité de ses interventions, l'ADS s'est attachée à la question des ressources
humaines. Ainsi, même si pour des raisons tant budgétaires que procédurales, la mise en place d'un
Département dédié aux ressources humaines est relativement récente, l'Agence a oeuvré au
développement de ce secteur par la réalisation d'études et d'outils : Etude et conseil en matière
d'organisation et de gestion des ressources humaines ; Etude du cadre institutionnel de la gestion des
ressources humaines de l'ADS ; Manuel des procédures de gestion des ressources humaines et
formation, etc.
Cette démarche a abouti à la création du Département Ressources Humaines en mai 2007,
accompagnée par l'expertise d'un consultant spécialisé. Depuis, de nombreuses actions sont menées
en la matière :
- mise à niveau de la gestion administrative du personnel,
- mise en place de process et d'outils de recrutement
- définition des missions du service des RH et de ses procédures de recrutement
- définition et mise en oeuvre d'un programme d'intégration des nouvelles recrues
- mise en place d'une ingénierie de formation continue
- élaboration d'un référentiel des emplois et des compétences
- etc.

Afin de renforcer une politique dynamique de gestion des RH valorisant son capital humain, l'ADS
va se consacrer dans un proche avenir à la poursuite du plan de formation interne, à la mise en place
d'un plan de communication interne et à l'ajustement du statut du personnel.

* Mise en place d'un Système d'information et de gestion (SIG) spécifique
La mise en place du système d'information et de gestion a nécessité la réalisation de plusieurs projets
d'informatisation et d'organisation :
- des projets des équipements et infrastructures visant à mettre en place les matériels et logiciels de
base nécessaires pour supporter le futur système.
- des projets de mise en oeuvre des solutions comme le projet de mise en oeuvre du site web, et dans
un avenir proche : projets de mise en oeuvre des téléservices, du portail privé, du système décisionnel,
de gestion des ressources humaines, de gestion des ressources financières, et de gestion des
ressources logistiques.
- des projets de développement des applications à travers un projet de conception, réalisation, tests et
mise en oeuvre des applications SIGADS (Système d'Information et de Gestion des activités de
l'ADS)
Durant ce processus, l'ADS a bénéficié de financements de la BM ainsi que de son expertise
ponctuelle à l'occasion de missions générales d'évaluation du prêt.

* Assimilation du Projet BIRD au fonctionnement quotidien de l'ADS. Bien que l'Accord ait
prévu la création d'une structure ad hoc de suivi du Projet, l'ADS a trouvé plus judicieux de ne pas
superposer à l'existant une strate supplémentaire et a préféré intégrer le Projet BIRD à cet existant,
commun aux autres activités de l'ADS. Néanmoins, force est de reconnaître que cette option n'est pas
sans poser quelques difficultés au niveau du suivi du projet : dispersion de l'information, défaut de
coordination, relative faiblesse de la capitalisation, etc.

* Mise en place de procédures de travail avec les collectivités locales et de mécanismes de
mobilisation de fonds à travers la création, depuis 2004, de Fonds de Développement Local (FDL).


                                                   35

En plus de la mobilisation de ressources financières, ces FDL permettent la mise en place d'un
système de gouvernance local proche de celui de l'INDH (comité de pilotage provincial ou
communal) qui a d'ailleurs été intégré, après 2005, aux comités de cette dernière. Par ailleurs, ces
Fonds, qui fonctionnent selon les procédures de l'Agence et de l'INDH, disposent d'un comité
d'approbation des projets ce qui permet une gestion plus rigoureuse et plus transparente des
financements octroyés.

* Intégration de l'approche Genre et de l'Environnement dans les procédures de l'ADS.
Le projet de la BM a appuyé, dès son démarrage, l'Agence pour intégrer l'approche genre et
l'approche environnementale dans ses procédures. Pour renforcer ces choix, l'ADS a lancé un
programme, en partenariat avec le MDSFS, la GTZ et l'ACDI pour mieux intégrer la culture du genre
dans l'agence et auprès de ses partenaires et pour adapter tous les outils afin qu'ils soient compatibles
avec cette approche. Ceci a permis la création d'un « Pôle Genre » au sein de l'agence. Elle a aussi
prévu de lancer, en fin 2008, un audit genre de l'ADS. Par ailleurs un programme de formation a été
monté à la fin de l'année 2007, mis en oeuvre depuis 2008.
Des actions similaires sont en préparation dans le domaine de l'environnement dans le cadre de la
nouvelle stratégie de l'Agence.

* Mise en place de mécanismes innovateurs pour les AGRE. Il s'agit des Caisses de
développement solidaire à travers lesquelles, l'ADS encourage les communautés bénéficiaires à
épargner et à investir sur une base solidaire. Ces CDS permettent aussi de faire jouer un mécanisme
multiplicateur de l'appui financier de départ. Pour mieux former et accompagner les communautés
bénéficiaires, l'Agence a encouragé la création d'Organes d'Encadrement qui sont charger de
« coacher » une ou plusieurs communautés afin qu'elles réussissent les projets AGR et qu'elles créent
et gèrent ces CDS dans les meilleures conditions.

* Mission d'appui aux CR en vue du renforcement de leur autonomie. Dans le but d'améliorer
l'efficacité de son action, l'ADS a engagé, à partir de 2007, un processus de renforcement de
l'autonomie de décision et de gestion de toutes ses entités, et en particulier de ses CR. Dans ce cadre,
le siège a mené un ensemble de mission d'appui auprès de toutes les CR afin de les aider à mieux
comprendre la nouvelle stratégie et à identifier les problèmes qu'elles rencontrent ainsi que les
solutions qui peuvent leur être apportées de façon à ce qu'elles mènent au mieux les programmes et
projets contenus dans cette stratégie.

En 2008, l'Agence a sélectionné 3 CR concernées par le projet BM (Oujda, Marrakech et Agadir)
pour leur confier, à partir de 2009, une gestion délégué du budget ; ce qui veut dire qu'elles auront
une plus grande autonomie de gestion financière. Un comité d'appui, animé par le Directeur Général
Adjoint, va accompagner et former les cadres de ces CR pour qu'ils maîtrisent, dans les meilleures
conditions les modalités et les outils de cette gestion déléguée. A partir du troisième trimestre 2009, et
après évaluation, avec les deux ministères de tutelle, des résultats de cette première phase, l'agence
passera à la généralisation de ce nouveau mode de gestion.

En outre, un effort supplémentaire a été fait pour renforcer la sensibilisation et l'information autour
de la nouvelle stratégie auprès des cadres de l'ADS et auprès de l'ensemble de ses partenaires.
.
* Intégration de l'action de l'Agence dans le nouveau cadre stratégique de lutte contre la
pauvreté. Suite à l'invitation de son ministère de tutelle (MDSFS), l'ADS a participé à l'élaboration
du cadre stratégique de lutte contre la pauvreté afin de pouvoir harmoniser sa stratégie avec celle du
Pôle Social dont elle est membre. Ce nouveau cadre stratégique s'insère dans la Stratégie sociale du
Gouvernement et vise à faciliter la convergence des efforts de l'ensemble des opérateurs qui



                                                  36

travaillent dans le champs du développement social et de la lutte contre la pauvreté (Etat, Elus, ONG,
privé) pour davantage de visibilité et de synergies.

6. Présentation des mécanismes de pérennisation du projet
Pour bénéficier de l'appui de l'Agence, ses partenaires doivent garantir la pérennité des projets
proposés. En effet, il s'agit d'un critère d'éligibilité général qui s'applique à l'ensemble des projets.

La pérennisation des projets passe aussi par la mise en place de mécanismes d'appui et d'encadrement
des porteurs de projets. S'agissant des projets générateurs de revenus, l'Agence exige l'identification
d'organes d'encadrement qui assurent l'appui technique nécessaire aux porteurs des projets.
L'identification, dès l'instruction des projets, des comités des usagers et leur responsabilisation dans
la mise en oeuvre des projets renforcent et garantissent leur pérennisation de ceux-ci.
Dans le cycle de projet de l'ADS est prévue une phase de mise en valeur. Ainsi, conformément à son
manuel des procédures, l'Agence accompagne le projet deux ans après sa réception provisoire pour :

      Vérifier si le projet a été utilisé pour les objectifs qui lui ont été assignés ;
      S'assurer de la viabilité du projet et de la qualité de sa gestion ;
      Évaluer l'impact socio-économique du projet ;
      Apporter l'appui et l'assistance éventuels pour compléter le projet.

Cette étape s'achève par la réception définitive du projet. Cette réception définitive signifie que le
projet est viable et que sa durabilité se présente dans de bonnes conditions.

7. Conclusions et enseignements à tirer

Lors des premières prises de contact entre l'ADS et la Banque mondiale, l'Agence était une cellule
embryonnaire, appuyée par sa tutelle, et puisant sa force dans la volonté et la motivation de quelques
personnes passionnées par la tâche immense à accomplir.
Aujourd'hui, l'ADS compte plus de 300 agents ; elle a fait ses preuves et a gagné la confiance de ses
partenaires locaux, nationaux et internationaux par une gestion rigoureuse, des méthodes
d'intervention novatrices, une capacité à évoluer et à se remettre en question, à intégrer et appliquer
des valeurs.

L'ADS a initié de nombreux partenariats en pariant sur la volonté de réforme de l'Etat et sur la
dynamique du changement au sein de la société ; dynamique dont l'essor de la société civile était l'un
des reflets les plus évidents. Grâce à ces partenariats, au dynamisme de ses jeunes cadres et à la
rigueur de sa gestion, et malgré de nombreux obstacles, l'Agence a pu mettre en place des démarches
novatrices et a obtenu des résultats significatifs.

Suite à une première évaluation de son action et après l'avènement de l'INDH, l'Agence a cherché à
améliorer sa démarche pour s'intégrer davantage dans l'action globale de l'Etat et pour appuyer
encore mieux ses partenaires locaux. C'est ce qui a permis l'émergence d'une nouvelle stratégie axée
d'une part sur le renforcement des capacités des acteurs locaux, particulièrement les collectivités
locales et les ONG, et d'autre part sur l'appui aux AGRE selon une démarche basée sur la promotion
des filières locales. Cette stratégie est assise sur une base territoriale et elle a induit une évolution du
métier de l'ADS vers « l'animation des territoires » sur lesquels elle travaille. Ce choix, appuyé par
l'ensemble du Conseil d'Administration, est aujourd'hui conforté, en plus de la Convention signée en
2006 avec le Comité de Pilotage de l'INDH, par la convention cadre que l'Agence a signée avec la
DGCL et sur les convention opérationnelles qui en découlent et qui sont signées avec les CPDH des
26 provinces concernées. L'appui que la BM a apporté à l'Agence a contribué à ces résultats.



                                                   37

Pour conforter et pérenniser ces derniers, l'ADS aurait besoin d'une poursuite de cet appui,
particulièrement dans les domaines du Renforcement des capacités, à travers le PADEST ou le
programme TAKWIA, précités, et de la promotion des AGRE. L'Agence a aujourd'hui une capacité
d'intervention importante, qui risque cependant d'être sous-utilisée par l'insuffisance des moyens
dont elle dispose. Si elle pallie, aujourd'hui cette insuffisance par une capacité élevée de mobilisation
de fonds (l'effet de levier est actuellement de 1 à 4), c'est au détriment d'une part, de sa liberté
d'action, car elle ne peut travailler qu'avec les partenaires institutionnels qui veulent bien apporter les
financements nécessaires, et d'autre part, de la vitesse avec laquelle elle pourrait agir. Dans les
conditions financières actuelles, l'ADS peut difficilement mettre en place des plans d'action
rigoureux, car les décisions des partenaires dont elle dépend sont souvent aléatoires.

Sur un autre plan, et malgré l'écoute du Ministère des Finances, l'Agence continue de souffrir de
l'inadaptation des procédures effectives de contrôle exercée par l'agence comptable et qui semblent
incompatibles avec l'esprit du contrôle a posteriori et les exigences du travail de proximité et de
l'action avec des partenaires dont les capacités sont limitées. D'une part, cette situation engendre des
blocages énormes au niveau des paiements, ce qui pénalise les petites ONG qui ont des moyens très
limités et qui sont donc fortement dépendantes des financements de l'Agence ; et d'autre part, elle
nuit à la crédibilité de l'ADS.




                                                  38

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A.




                                    39

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank

World Bank (2002) Project Appraisal Document, Support for the Social Development Agency
Project, report No. 23947-MOR

World Bank (2001) Morocco Poverty Update, Report No. 21506-MOR

World Bank (2001) Morocco: Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 22115-MOR

World Bank (2002) Morocco: Social Protection Note, Report No. 22 486-MOR

World Bank (2005) Morocco: Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 31879-MA

World Bank (2006) Project Appraisal Document, Morocco: National Human Development Initiative
(INDH) Project, Report No. 36973-MOR

World Bank (2007) Morocco: Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, Report No. 41254-MA

World Bank (2009), Targeting and Social Protection Strategy, Concept Note (internal document)


Government

Agence de Développement Sociale (2001) Plan de Gestion Environnementale.

Royaume du Maroc, Ministère du Développement Social, de la Famille et de la Solidarité Rapport
d'Achèvement et de Résultats, Octobre 2008

Royaume du Maroc, Agence de Développement Social, Manuel de Procédures de l'ADS, Juin 2006.

Evaluation d'impact des projets appuyés par l'Agence de Développement Social », Volumes 1 et 2,
Universalia, Octobre 2008.

Other

Approches participatives au Maroc : Bilan de L'experience et recommandations pour la mise en
oeuvre de l'initiative Nationale De Développement Humain (INDH), M Zirari, January 2006.




                                              40

