Report No. 1161b-MA
Malaysia: Appraisal of a
Fourth Education Project
September 9, 1976
Education Projects Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office           FILE            CO pY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be dtsclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =      Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1.00 *      =      M$2.58
M$1.00 *       =      US$0.39
MEASURES
I m                   1.09 yd.
I m2           =      10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2          =      0.39 sq. mi.
1 hectare      =      2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
* Since June 21, 1973 the Malaysian Dollar has
floated in relation to the U.S. Dollar.
The exchange rate used in this report is the
short-term average at the time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                ...........................
I.    INTRODUCTION ......................................                       1
II. THE SETTING ......................................1
Socio-Economic Background  .......              .............      1
Economic Development  .......................                      2
III.    EDUCATION AND TRAINING .................... ........                       3
Summary Overview  ... . . ... . . . . .  .............. ........ .  3
The Education System  ..            .......................        4
Education Investment Proposals  (1976-80) ..... .                  9
IV.    THE PROJECT .......................................                      10
Overview  ...................................................     10
Primary School Development  ...................                   11
Industrial Training  Institutes  ....              ...........    16
Community Education  .. .... ..... ...  ............ . .          16
V.    PROJECT COST,  FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION  ........                    17
Cost Estimates  .....         ..........................          17
Financial Plan ............................................. 0...  19
Project Implementation .....                ..................    20
Maintenance  ..................................................   21
Professional  Services  .................... .   .      ...       21
Sites  .......        .................................           21
Procurement  . ........... .  ..............  ...  ......         21
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    ........................                   23
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED   . .......................... . .. .                  25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
APPENDICES
1.   Summary of Previous Bank Education Projects in Malaysia
2.   Socio-Economic and Educational Disparities
3.   Manpower Situation in Malaysia
4.   Educational Planning and School Mapping
5.   Technical Assistance and Professional Services
6.   Background Information on Primary School Building in Malaysia
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Educational Expenditures
3.   Socio-Economic and Education Indicators by State
4.   Planned Enrollment, Estimated Requirements and Supply of
Instructors in Industrial Training Institutes, 1976-80
5.   Summary of Project Costs by Categories of Expenditure
6.   Contingency Allowances
7.   Staff Requirements for Implementation
8.   Forecast of Disbursement
9.   Initial Implementation Schedule
10.   Implementation Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Educational Pyramid, 1974
2.   Structure of the Formal Education System, 1975
MAP



MALAYSIA
BASIC DATA (1974)
Population
Total                                                       11.7 million
Peninsular Malaysia                                          9.8 million
Sabah                                                        0.8 million
Sarawak                                                      1.1 million
Annual rate of growth                                        2.9%
Labor Force
Total                                                        3.5 million
ajianufacturing                                              0.3 million
School Enrollments (including overage students)
Primary school enrollment (grades 1-6) as
a percentage of population aged 6-11                       99%
Lower secondary school enrollment (grades 7-9)
as a percentage of population aged 12-14                   64%
Upper secondary school enrollment (grades 10-11)
as a percentage of population aged 15-16                   26%
Sixth form enrollment (grades 12-13) as a
percentage of population aged 17-18                         3%
Higher education enrollment (grades 14-16) as
a percentage of population aged 19-21                       2%
Expenditures on Education
Ministry of Education recurrent expenditure
Absolute terms                                         M$1,025 million
As a % of total federal recurrent expenditure           23.7%
Ministry of Education development expenditure
Absolute terms                                         M$187 million
As a % of total federal recurrent expenditure           10.0%
Total public and private education expenditure
Absolute terms                                          M$1,423 million
As a % of GNP                                           7.2%






GLOSSARY
CDD       -    Community Development Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
EMS       -    Educational Media Service of the Ministry of Education
EPC       -    Educational Planning Committee of the Ministry of Education
EPRD      -    Educational Planning and Research Division of the Ministry
of Education
HSC       -    Higher School Certificate
ILO       -    International Labor Organization
ITI       -    Industrial Training Institute
ITM       -    Institute of Technology MARA
LCE       -    Lower Certificate of Education
MARA      -    Majlis Amanah Ra'ayat - Council of Trust for Indigenous People
MCDS      -    Malaysian Center for Development Studies
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOE       -    Ministry of Education
MOLM      -    Ministry of Labor and Manpower
MTC       -    Malay Teachers' College
NACIT     -    National Advisory Council on Industrial Training
NITTCB    -    National Industrial Training and Trade Certification Board
NYPC      -    National Youth Pioneers Corps
PWD       -    Public Works Department
TTC       -    Teacher Training College
VCC       -    Village Community Center






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMM1ARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a fourth education project in
Malaysia, for which a loan of US$35.0 million is proposed. Since 1969 Malay-
sia has received three loans for education for a wide variety of institu-
tions, including technical, agricultural and teacher training at secondary
or higher levels, as well as for curriculum cU-velopment and mass media. The
first project is virtually complete. Although the second and third projects
presently are experiencing a few months delay, they ar_ expected to be com-
pleted on schedule.
ii.       Malaysia has a comparatively strong system of formal education
and spends a high proportion of its Government budget (28%) on it. Pro-
gress has been made during the Second Plan in increasing enrollment ratios,
strengthening curricula and reducing dropout among students. Despite these
achievements, the system has several key weaknesses. These include an in-
adequate system to allocate educational resources according to objectiPe
measures of need between levels of education, among states and within states.
As a result, educational services tend to be distributed unequally. In
particular, poorer states and rural areas lag behind the rest of the country
in provision of adequate primary school facilities and trained teachers.
iii.      The proposed project would support the Government's five-year
primary school construction program (1976-80) by constructing approximately
4,100 classrooms at about 850 primary schools in seven of Malaysia's most
disadvantaged states. The program is designed to improve the quality of
primary schooling and to redress existing imbalances in the provision of
primary education. The project would provide technical assistance, equip-
ment and facilities to help:
(a) establish within the Ministry of Education (MOE) the
institutions and systematic procedures for school
mapping and for planning primary school facilities;
(b) increase the capacity of thle Government to implement
primary school construction programs by strengthening
the staff of the MOE and the Public Works Department
(PWD);
(c) redress inequities in provision of primary schooling
through construction of approximately 4,100 classrooms
and related facilities at about 850 primary schools in
poverty areas;
(d) upgrade teachers by establishing four Education
Resource Centers to provide them with regular
in-service training;



- ii -
(e) make up projected shortages of primary school teachers
in Sarawak by establishing a teacher training college at Miri.
The project would include the establishment of three new Industrial Train-
ing Institutes (ITIs) and extension to t:wo existing ITIs to he:lp provide the
skilled manpower necessary for industrial development.  It wou:Ld also include
support for a study of community education in preparation for expected Govern-
ment investment in non-formal education.
iv.       The unit in the MOE responsible for overall implementation of the
three existing education projects would be strengthened to maniage execution
of the primary school component of the proposed fourth project. Design,
tendering and supervision of civil works of the primary schools to be con-
structed under the project would be the responsibility of the State and
Federal PWDs. Staff of the PWD and the state education offices would be
expanded to be able to undertake the increased workload generated by the
project. The Training Services Division of the Ministry of Labor and Man-
power (MOLM) would be responsible for overall implementation for the ITI
project component.   Project directors have been designated in both the MOE
and the MOLM. Conditions of disbursement for each project state would be the
creation and staffing of key implementation positions by the Federal an1 State
Governments.
v.        Contracts for civil works and furniture would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally following Government proce-
dures which are acceptable to the Bank. Foreign contractors would be allowed
to participate. Equipment contracts over US$100,000 would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Domestic manufacturers would be allowed standard preferences. Equipment
purchases which cannot reasonably be grouped to form contracts of at least
US$100,000 equivalent could be awarded without prior Bank approval on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally following Government proce-
dures which are acceptable to the Bank. In addition, off-the-shelf items,
not exceeding US$10,000 in each contract and aggregating a total of less than
US$250,000 equivalent could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three
quotations. Books would be purchased in accordance with the normal procedures
of the Borrower.
vi.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$124.6 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$35.2 million, or 28% of
the total cost. The proposed loan of US$35.0 million would finance the
foreign exchange costs. Disbursements would be made over a five-year period
against: (a) 100% of the c.i.f. costs of directly imported equipment; (b) 100%
of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured equipment; (c) 70% of the cost
of imported and locally procured equipment; (d) 25% of the expenditures
in civil works, professional services and furniture; and (e) 100% of the
total cost of technical assistance.
vii.      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$35.0 million equivalent to the Govern-
ment of Malaysia for a term of 17 years, including a three and one-half-year
grace period.



>MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first lending of the Bank Group for education in Malaysia
(Loan 599-MA, signed in 1969) provided US$8.8 million to assist technical,
vocational and agricultural education. All but one of the 21 project
institutions have been completed and are in full operation. Construction
of the last institution, delayed due to the site relocation and subsequent
flooding, is underway and scheduled for completion in late 1976. A second
loan of US$15.5 million (Loan 810-MA, signed in 1972), is financing a cur-
riculum development center, educational television for Peninsular Malaysia,
vocational schools and the development of a science university. Project
implementation is about 14 months behind schedule. A third project (Loan
974-MA, signed in 1974) assists government efforts to develop technician
training, pre-service teacher training and educational television in East
Malaysia. Project implementation is about seven months behind schedule.
Despite the delays, both the second and third projects are expected to be
completed on schedule. A common cause of delay in all three projects has been
understaffing in the Public Works Department (PWD) which is responsible for
design work, tendering and site supervision. These projects are described in
further detail in Appendix 1.
1.02      This report presents the findings of an appraisal mission 1/ which
visited Malaysia during November/December 1975 to appraise a fourth education
project. The project would provide primary school facilities in seven of the
most rural and least developed states. It would also improve allocation of
education resources, increase the capacity of the PWD for school construc-
tion, expand in-service and pre-service training of teachers and provide
additional facilities for industrial skill training. The project was identi-
fied by a joint IBRD/Unesco mission in July 1975. A loan request was prepared
by the Government with the assistance of the IBRD/Unesco Cooperative Program
in October 1975. The request included establishment of an extensive community
training system. During appraisal it was agreed that a feasibility study
should precede the establishment of such a system, and that the study would be
included in the proposed project.
II. THE SETTING
Socio-Economic Background
2.01      Malaysia, a multi-racial country of about 12 million people, is
separated by the South China Sea into Peninsular Malaysia and the East
1/   Messrs. A.H. ter Weele (educational planner and mission leader), J. P.
Jallade (economist), A. S. Naimie (architect), and S. Z. Sung (techni-
cal educator).



-2-
Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak. Peninsular Malaysia, comprising eleven
states, has 85% of the country's total population. Mala"s account for about
53% of the Peninsular Malaysia population, Chinese for about 36% and Indians
for about 11%. Non-Malay indigenous people (e.g., Dyak, Melanau, Kadazan,
Murut, Bajan) are concentrated in East Malaysia where they constitute about
two-thirds and one-half of the populations of Sabah and Sarawak, respectively.
About 70% of the population in Peninsular Malaysia, and 85% of that in Sabah
and Sarawak, live in rural areas 1/.
2.02      Malaysia's resources and the benefits of itt economic growth have
not been shared equally among people and regions. Peninsular Malaysia has
85% of the country's population, but only 40% of the total land area.
Whereas 53% of the nation's labor force is employed in agriculture, forestry
and fisheries, these workers produce only 32% of GDP. The estimated average
monthly household incomes of Malays on Peninsular Malaysia was US$260 in 1975,
while it was US$550 for Chinese and US$440 for Indians. Literacy rates range
from 38% in rural states such as Sarawak to 68% in more urban states such as
Negri Sembilan.
2.03      A recent FAO/IBRD Cooperative Study 2/ revealed that most poverty
groups, whether defined by occupation, race or degree of ruralization, are
concentrated in particular states (Appendix 2). The study found that almost
one-half of the total number of poor households in Peninsular Malaysia are
found in the three states of Kedah, Kelantan and Perak which have about
one-third of the corresponding population. Five additional states (Pahang,
Perlis, Sabah, Sarawak and Trengganu) rank near or below average on most
measures of the distribution of social and economic amenities. The five
states of Johore, Penang, Malacca, Negri Sembilan and Selangor generally rank
as the most developed.
2.04      Patterns of disparities in educational opportunity are similar to
those for disparities in income and other services. Selangor, the state with
the highest GDP per capita (US$610), has the second highest literacy rate
(67%). Kelantan, with the lowest GDP per capita (US$170), has the lowest
recurrent education expenditure per capita (US$27). The eight states of
Kedah, Kelantan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Sabah, Sarawak and Trengganu emerge
on most indicators as having the least developed school systems. These same
states are those which rank as the least developed in terms of indicators such
as infant mortality and percentage of households in poverty (Appendix 2).
Economic Development
2.05      On the whole the Malaysian economy has performed well during the
last 15 years. During the 1960s, growth of GNP averaged 6% per annum in
1/   According to the official definition of r*ural population as persons
not living in a gazetted community of more than 10,000 persons.
2/   Problems of Rural Poverty in Malaysia, FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program,
IBRD Report No. 838-MA, February 1975.



- 3 -
real terms and prices were remarkably stable. Due to rapid export expansion
and a dramatic improvement in the terms of trade, growth accelerated to 13%
in real terms in 1973, but inflation increased to 11% in 1973 and 17% in 1974
as a result of high import prices. GDP growth fell to 1% in 1975, but still
averaged 6.9% per annum during the Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75). The
major focus of growth was the manufacturing sector, whose value added grew at
a rate of 17% over the period 1967-1974. Agricultural growth has also been
strong, with value added growing at 10% over the same period.
2.06      Since exports account for 45% of GNP, the Malaysian economy is
sensitive to the fluctuations of the terms of trade. Significant progress has
been made in reducing the traditional dependence on rubber exports through
diversification to palm oil, timber resources and manufactured goods. The
discovery of substantial amount of petroleum and natural gas resources is a
promising source of future revenue for the country.
2.07      The government's New Economic Policy aims at overcoming regional and
racial imbalances. The objectives of this policy, as expressed in the Second
Malaysia Plan (1971-75) are: (a) to eradicate poverty through raising income
levels and increasing employment opportunities; and (b) to restructure the
Malaysian society through redressing regional and racial imbalances in income
and provision of basic services. The Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80) continues
this policy. It emphasizes equity and provision of services to rural areas.
The need for a high rate of economic growth is recognized in order to generate
employment and upward mobility opportunities, both of which are necessary if
income differentials are to be narrowed. Growth of GDP is planned to increase
at about 7% per annum, and growth of employment at about 3.2%. Economic
expansion is to be led by industries such as textiles, electronics, wood
products, rubber products, footwear, non-metallic mineral products and construc-
tion. An estimated 65,000 skilled production workers will need to be added to
the labor force in these and related fields each year to achieve the target
growth rates (Appendix 3).
III. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Summary Overview
3.01      Malaysia has a comparatively strong system of formal education
and spends a high proportion of its GNP (7.2%) and Government budget (28%)
on it. The strengths of the system are:
(a)  high enrollment ratios (99% primary, 64% lower secondary,
26% upper secondary, Chart 1) and high female participation
rates (44% of lower secondary pupils are girls);
(b)  achievement of significant progress during the Second Plan
towards establishing a common national language as the



- 4 -
medium of instruction in schools and towards integrating the
state education systems of Sabah and Sarawak into the
national education system;
(c)  reductions in dropout among students (from 16% throughout
the primary school cycle at the start of the Second Plan to
4% by the end of the Plan); and
(d)  improvements in educational quality being achieved by an ex-
tensive textbook loan scheme, growing use of mass media and
an active curriculum development center.
3.02      Despite these strengths several key weaknesses of the education
sector can be identified, as follows:
(a)  an inadequate system to allocate resources according to
objective criteria among education levels (e.g., between
primary and higher education), among states, and within
states (e.g., placement of schools);
(b)  inequality of educational services, particularly in provision
of adequate primary school facilities and trained teachers to
poorer states and rural areas (Appendix 2); and
(c)  the need to increase construction capacity sharply since con-
struction of primary schools will have to increase from 6,300
classrooms during the Second P'lan to 15,000 classrooms during
the Third Plan.
The Education System
3.03      Educational Structure and Administration.  The Malaysian education
system (Chart 2) is comprised of a six-year primary level, a seven-year
secondary level (divided into a three-year lower cycle, a two-year upper
cycle and a two-year sixth form) and a four-year university level. Students
not entering university may continue on to specialized schooling (technical,
agricultural, teacher training) after completing the upper secondary cycle.
Administration of primary and secondary schools, teacher training and uni-
versities is the responsibility of the MOE. Responsibility for most special-
ized formal training and for nonformal education is spread among a number of
other ministries and agencies including the Ministry of Labor and Manpower,
the Council of Trust for Indigenous People (MARA), and the Ministry of Agri-
culture.
3.04      Primary Education (Grades 1-6).  Primary enrollment is virtually
universal, although there is poor attendance in some rural areas. Most
enrollment (99%) is concentrated in Government schools. Average dropout is
low (4% over the span of the first six grades) since promotion throughout
primary school is automatic. Nonetheless, a recent Government study indicates



-5-
that dropout remains a problem in remote schools. The pupil/teacher ratio is
satisfactory (32:1) and new teachers are well-trained. However, an average
of 13% of practicing teachers are uncertified (including about 20% in Pahang).
The Curriculum Development Center, established in 1973 with assistance under
Loan 810-MA, is preparing new primary curricula and testing programs.
Previous shortages of textbooks have been overcome by a Government project
started in 1973. Project books are attractive, well-produced and distributed
efficiently. The educational media service is providing well-organized
instructional support using audio-visual aids, including television.
3.05      Despite these achievements, primary education requires improve-
ment in several areas. Physical facilities of many primary schools are
substandard and impede effective learning. Classrooms are often overcrowded
(the number of pupils per classroom averages 65 in Perak). Many schools
(about 40% in Pahang) are accommodated in buildings constructed for other
purposes (e.g., family dwellings) or temporary buildings (e.g., Sarawak).
Rooms in these buildings and other schools are often small, poorly lighted,
inadequately ventilated, noisy and unhygienic. Although construction during
the Second Plan has added 6,300 primary classrooms, efforts to replace in-
adequate/condemned premises and to expand overcrowded schools have not been
focused on the rural and less-developed parts of the country where such
conditions predominate (Annex 2).
3.06      Significant disparities exist in the provision of primary education
(Annex 3). Primary school participation rates (excluding under- and over-age
pupils) vary from 76% in Sabah to 91% in Johore. Annual recurrent expenditure
per capita by the MOE ranges from US$21 in Sarawak to US$37 in Negri Sembilan.
The rural states of Kedah, Kelantan, Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Sabah, Sarawak
and Trengganu, which are underdeveloped in terms of most socio-economic
indicators, also have the least developed primary school systems (Appendix 2).
The two states of Sabah and Sarawak are particularly disadvantaged in this
regard, in part since education in those states became a responsibility of
the Federal Government only two years ago.
3.07      The inequities in provision of primary education have resulted from
inadequate planning. No systematic process exists at the national level to
allocate resources among states according to objective measures of need. Nor
does such a process exist at the local level to ensure that classrooms are
built where they are most needed. A process of systematic planning, based on
school mapping, should be introduced to assist the Government in allocating
resources more equitably.
3.08      A Cabinet Committee in late 1973 worked out a strategy for redress-
ing inequities by improving educational services to disadvantaged areas. The
strategy, inter alia, included:
(a)  increasing government investment in primary education,
including the provision of better physical facilities to
rural primary schools;
(b) consolidating small primary schools where feasible;



(c) upgrading the rural teaching force by providing accommod-
ation for teachers in rural areas and posting more expe-
rienced and qualified teachers to those areas; and
(d) increasing per pupil allocations for smaller (rural) schools.
Implementation of these policies has been uneven. In the face of strong pres-
sure to expand higher education, it has proved difficult to provide the funds
necessary to implement the programs.
3.09      Secondary Education (Grades 7-13).  Since almost 80% of primary
school leavers go on to secondary school, the enrollment ratio in the lower
secondary cycle (grades 7-9) is high (64% of the relative age group). Dropout,
part of which is due to entrance examinations preceding the upper secondary
cycle (grades 10-11) and the sixth form (grades 12-13), reduces enrollment
ratios at those levels to 26% and 3%, respectively. Most enrollment (91%) is
concentrated in Government schools. Curricula at the lower cycle secondary
schools are a satisfactory blend of a core program in academic subjects and
electives in practical subjects. At the upper cycles, students are separated
into an arts or science stream. Previously, the curricula at these levels
were excessively theoretical, but practical subjects are now being introduced.
During the Second Plan, a number of residential science schools were created.
Most secondary school teachers (90%) are certified, and 81% are graduates of
universities or teachers colleges. Facilities are generally adequate. How-
ever, ad hoc planning for new schools has led to inequities in the provision
of secondary education.  Enrollment ratios for the combined lower and upper
cycles range from 39% in Sarawak to 59% in Negri Sembilan.
3.10      Technical and Vocational Education.  Since an additional 65,000
skilled production workers will be needed in the labor force each year (para
2.07), vocational/technical programs should be expanded. Output of existing
training programs in 1975 was 3,000 as follows:
No. of          Course                       Annual
Agency/Institution   Institutions          Duration      Enrollment    Output
MOE Secondary             20                2 years/         8,000      1,600
Vocational Schools                          trade
MOLM Industrial            2                  /a               900        800
Training Institutes
MARA Vocational            6                66 weeks/        1,000        600
Institutes                                  trade
Total                                        Approx.  10,000       3,000
/a   ITIs offer four types of trade courses and instructor courses.
Course durations vary, but most pupils study two trades during a
period of 44 weeks.



- 7 -
Development of the MOE secondary vocational schools is still at an early
stage, and industrial employers have not yet gained full confidence in the
graduates. The quality of training, based on examination results, needs
improvement. In 1974, 34% and 22% of final year students respectively, passed
tests of the Malaysian Certificate of Vocational Education and the National
Industrial Training and Trade Certification Board (NITTCB). The Government is
aware of the weaknesses of the secondary vocational schools and is working to
overcome them. The MARA vocational institutes enroll indigenous people 16
years or older, who have passed the Lower Certificate Examination (after
grade nine) with credits in mathematics and science. The pupils receive sound
training and achieve high pass rates in practical tests (55% in 1974 on the
NITTCB examination). Facilities are presently underutilized since there is a
shortage of qualified applicants. However, demand for graduates is great and
increasing, since legislation requires that 30% of industrial employees be
indigenous people. The Government is financing expansion of MARA vocational
institutes and is considering relaxation of entrance requirements. Output is
expected to increase from the present 600 to 3,000 in 1981.
3.11      The first industrial training institute (ITI) was established at
Kuala Lumpur with ILO assistance in 1964 and the second at Prai with German
bilateral assistance in 1973. Initially, courses were restricted to tbDse of
the national apprenticeship scheme. More recently, ITIs have added skill
upgrading courses, preparatory trade courses and armed forces rehabilitation
courses. Studies focus on mechanical, electrical, building and printing
trades. Enrollments reached about 900 in 1975. About 15% of students train
to be vocational instructors. Most students (about 80%) enroll in pre-service
courses, but in-service training is provided to employed persons as demand
warrants. There are more than adequate applicants for the pre-service courses
due to lower entrance requirement than in other training institutions (a
minimum age of 15 and completion of grade 8) and to prospects of immediate
employment after graduation. The ITIs are operated by the MOLM and the
recurrent expenditure is funded by the Government. Trainees pay a nominal fee
(between M$11 and M$45 per month). The annual cost per pupil, including
boarding facilities, is about M$1,750 per trainee, low compared to other forms
of vocational training. The present stock of ITI instructors is 77 and the
trainee/instructor ratio at 12:1 is reasonable in view of the technical/
practical orientation of the courses. Instructors' qualifications include two
years industrial experience and a trade proficiency certificate. Instructors
are trained at the ITI at Kuala Lumpur; an annual output of 120 is planned.
The Government is aware of the strengths of ITIs and plans to support a
moderate expansion of this flexible training scheme along with committed
increases of secondary vocational schools and considerable expansion of MARA
vocational institutes. To improve coordination among the various technical
training institutions and with industry, the Government is considering reorgan-
ization of the National Council of Industrial Training and introduction of an
industrial training levy.
3.12      Higher Education.  There are five institutions in Malaysia with
university status: the University of Malaya, the National University, the
University of Science, the University of Agriculture and the National Insti-
tute of Technology. The last four have all been established since 1969. In



- 8 -
addition, three polytechnic institutions (the MARA Institute of Technology,
Ungku Omar Polytechnic and Tunku Abdul Rahman College) offer post-secondary
non-university training. Enrollment totaled 16,000 in the five universities
and 7,400 in the three polytechnics in 1974-75. The universities are ad-
ministered by university councils under the general supervision of the Minister
of Education and the Higher Education Council. University enrollments have
doubled in the five years from 1969 to 1974. Shortages of graduates exist in
some specialized fields (e.g., architecture) and unemployment is projected for
liberal arts graduates. No policy exists regarding the establishment of
branch campuses, which are proliferating. The Agricultural University has
opened a branch in Sarawak, the National University has opened one in Sabah,
and MARA Institute one each in Sarawak, Sabah and Perlis.
3.13      Teacher Training.  Teachers for primary and lower secondary
schools are trained in a two-year program (grades 12-13) in teacher train-
ing colleges under the MOE. These colleges supply about 1,400 trained
teachers p.a., adequate to meet primary teacher requirements in most states,
except in Sarawak where an annual shortage of about 170 teachers is projected
through 1983. The quality of the newly trained teachers is generally satis-
factory. Teachers for the upper secondary and for the sixth form are university
trained in either a four-year combined Degree and Diploma in Education, or a
five-year program including a one-year post-graduate course in education. The
supply is adequate to meet projected effective demand for new secondary
teachers. About 13% of the nation's 48,000 primary teachers are uncertified.
Most of these are located in rural areas to which it is difficult to attract
trained teachers due to lack of housing and other amenities (Annex 3). In
order to improve the rural teaching force, housing should be provided and
in-service training programs strengthened. In-service courses are necessary
to upgrade untrained teachers as well as to familiarize all teachers with new
curricula, teaching techniques and instructional aids being developed by the
National Curriculum Development Center and the Mass Media Service. The MOE
has provided in-service training courses during school vacation periods
(38,000 teachers attended such short courses in 1974). However, it has not
provided in-service training throughout the school year to support teachers
as they encounter problems in the classroom. The Government is planning to
establish Education Resource Centers within each state to coordinate and
conduct in-service training throughout the school year.
3.14      Non-formal Education.  The present system of adult and community
education under the Community Developmenc Division of the Ministry of
Agriculture focuses on illiterate/semi-literate adults and on rural women.
Teaching programs emphasize literacy and family life education (e.g., nutri-
tion, child-care). Present operations in these areas are underfinanced,
deficient in trained personnel, and poorly coordinated with educational
and rural development activities of other agencies. Literacy classes were
suspended in 1975, due to ineffective curricula and methodologies, and high
dropout rates. The pre-school programs promoted by the Division have been
popular. Their effectiveness as pre-school compensatory education is hand-
icapped by a deficiency of trained personnel and the absence of fully



- 9 -
developed early childhood programs. Demand for community education services
is apparently great, but expansion of the services should be preceded by a
review of existing programs and their problems.
3.15      Educational Financing.  The costs of education are borne mainly by
the Federal Government.  State Governments have no financial responsibility
for education, and private schools enroll few students (paras. 3.04 and 3.09).
In 1974, current expenditure by the MOE amounted to about 24% of the Federal
Government's total current expenditure. Including expenditures on education
by other ministries and departments, the Federal Government allocated about
28% of [ts current budget to education and training. The total education
effort of the country, including private expenditures, is estimated at 7.2% of
GNP in 1974. These figures are high in comparison to other countries (Annex 1),
and reflect the priority assigned by the Government to education and training.
3.16      Development expenditures by the MOE have averaged about 10% of
total Federal Government development expenditure during the last decade.
Secondary education received 36% of the MOE's development expenditure during
the Second Plan period, primary and higher education about 20% each and tech-
nical/vocational education about 10% (Annex 2). No systematic process based
on objective criteria of need has been followed by the MOE in arriving at
Second Plan allocations between education levels, among states, and within
states. This has led to anomalies, such as Johore receiving the largest
allocation (M$2.7 million per year) of all states for primary school con-
struction when indicators suggest (Appendix 2) that Johore has one of the
two most developed educational systems. Also, thie relatively developed state
of Negri Sembilan was allocated nearly tlhree times more primary classrooms
per primnary school population than the disadvantaged state of Kedah. A
sytilt vimtic procedure for alLocation of funlds according to objective measures
of 1lee(l sh)ould be instituted to avoid such anomalies.  Th)e procedure should
inc1lude a program of school mapping to provide a basis for objective decision
rl; I''  i I1; .
3.17      The MOE's performance in meeting Second Plan financial targets
way; impressive.  Overall, expenditure amounted to about 95% of financial
targets.  HIowever, actual construction of classrooms lagged behind target
f igures by 20%, in part due to limited capacity of the PWD).
E'dtw tt ion Investment Proposals (1976-8()
3. I      The hasio  p1l icy of t-he Third] Plan ( para 2.07) emphasizes econornio
devl-l pment and provision of services to rural areas.  In support of these
policies, education programs are expected to attempt to:
(a)  close the gap in educational opportunities among the regions
and races;
(h)  further integrate the educat.ional systems of- Sabah and
Sarawak with the national system;



- 10 -
(c) orient and expand education and training programs towards
meeting the manpower needs of the country;
(d) improve educational planning and the capacity to implement
plans.
In the primary school subsector, programs to meet these objectives are being
developed on the basis of recommendations of the Cabinet committee study of
1973 (para. 3.08).
3.19      Educational development expenditures in the Third Plan are expected
to increase more than three-fold from M$560 million during the Second Plan
(1971-75) to M$1,720 during the Third Plan (1976-80). Of MOE Third Plan
capital expenditures, higher education is expected to receive the largest
share (39%), and secondary and primary education smaller shares (27% and 22%
respectively). To provide for required expansion and replacement of the most
inadequate facilities, the primary school investment target calls for construc-
tion of 3,000 primary school classrooms/year. This represents a 90% increase
over the Second Plan target of 1,560 classrooms/year and about a 140% increase
over actual construction achieved during the Second Plan of 1,250 class-
rooms/year. Achievement of the ambitious target would require provision
to the MOE and PWD of sufficient manpower to manage a widely dispersed primary
school construction program.
IV. THE PROJECT
Overview
4.01      The proposed project would support the Government's five-year
primary school construction program in seven of Malaysia's most disadvantaged
states. The program is designed to improve the quality of primary schooling
and to redress existing imbalances in the provision of primary school education.
The proposed project would also assist in the further expansion and upgrading
of industrial skill training. More specifically, the project would provide
construction, furniture, equipment and technical assistance for the following
institutions:



No. of
Institutions
To be         To be
expanded/     estab-       Annual Enrollment
replaced      lished      Present    Planned
Primary School Development (MOE)
Primary Schools                      698           150     140,000 /a    240,000
Teacher Training College
(pre-service teacher training)       1            -          150            480
Education Resource Centers
(in-service teacher training)        -            4            -         16,000 /b
Industrial Skill Training (MOLM)
Industrial Training Institutes         2             3         900          2,900
Community Education (MOA)
Community Service Centers              -             3            -              -
/a   Accommodated in facilities adequate for 50,000 pupils.
/b   In short courses averaging one week.
In preparation for expected Government investment in non-formal education,
the proposed project would also include support to the MOA for a study of
community education, including the establishment of three experimental community
service centers.
Primary School Development (proposed outlay: US$76.8 million)
4.02      The proposed project would support the primary school construction
program of the Third Plan for the states which are disadvantaged in socio-
economic and educational terms (paras 2.03 and 2.04), namely Kedah, Kelantan,
Pahang, Perak, Sabah, Sarawak and Trengganu. It is designed to address key
weaknesses of the education system (para 3.02) within the context of the
education objectives of the Third Plan (para 3.18). The project would
help:
(a) establish within the MOE the institutions and systematic
procedures required for school mapping and for planning
primary school facilities;
(b) increase the capacity of the Government to implement primary
school construction programs by strengthening the staffing of
the MOE and PWD;
(c) redress inequities in provision of primary schooling through
construction of approximately 4,100 classrooms and related
facilities at about 850 primary schools in poverty areas;
(d) improve primary school instruction by establishing four
Education Resource Centers to provide teachers with
regular in-service training; and



- 12 -
(e) make up projected shortages of primary school teachers in
Sarawak by establishing a teacher training college at Miri.
4.03      School Mapping and School Facilities Planning.  The project would
assist the Government in improving its capability to plan school construction.
It would help strengthen the process of school mapping and the institutional
structure for planning, consolidating and reviewing long- and short-term
building programs. It would introduce a procedure based on objective criteria
for allocation of resources between education levels, among states, and within
states. The process would improve decisions regarding school size, location
of new schools, consolidation of small schools, and expansion of existing
schools. Thereby it would make more equitable the access to primary schools
and, by reducing misallocation of resources, increase returns to investments
in school construction.
4.04      Planning for school size and location would begin at the local level
by completion of a standardized educational/architectural brief for each pro-
posed project school. The brief would provide the basic information required
for school mapping ::(school-age population, existing school facilities, location
of existing schools, etc.) and architectural data for each school of the
proposed construction program. The completed briefs would be used for school
mapping at the local, state and national level. Construction programs would
be developed on the basis of the school mapping exercises. They would be
reviewed by a preliminary review committee in Sabah and Sarawak to resolve
inter-divisional allocation priorities. 1/ In all states, a joint MOE-PWD
state development committee would finalize construction programs for the state
and be responsible for supervising their implementation. The existing Educ-
ational Planning Committee of the MOE in Kuala Lumpur would approve final
state construction plans. The Committee would be responsible for interstate
allocation of resources. To assist the Committee in discharging this function,
the Educational Planning and Research Division, and the Finance and Accounts
Division of the MOE would develop a set of indicators to rank states by edu-
cational needs. The indicators would be used by the Committee as a tool in
interstate allocation of educational resources. During negotiations the
Government provided assurances that it would continue to develop and collect
information on a set of educational indicators for each of the Project States
to assist the MIOE in allocating educational resources among states. (For de-
tails of the educational planning and school mapping procedure see Appendix 4).
4.05      Modified versions of these procedures have been followed in prep-
aration of the construction program which the proposed project would support.
The proposed project would help standardize, formalize and improve the pro-
cedures.  Bank financing would be provided for vehicles necessary for state
and divisional planning offices to collect school mapping data. During nego-
tiations agreement was reached with the Government on the kinds of data to be
I/   Preliminary review committees would not be established in the states
of Peninsular Malaysia since the states there have no educational
administrative units comparable to the Residencies/Divisions of East
Malaysia.



- 13 -
included in the standardized educational/architectural brief and on the
procedure for further development of the brief. The Government provided
assurances during negotiations that it would institute school mapping and
planning procedures and utilize them in preparing primary school construction
programs. Joint MOE-PWD development committees have been established in each
of the seven project states.
4.06      Staff Training.  In order to institute the proposed process of
school mapping and physical planning, involved staff would need training in
school mapping and planning. In particular, they would need to be trained
in the use of the standard educational/architectural brief. Such training
would be provided at short (one week) workshops at the state and national
levels. The workshops would also be used to improve the briefs for school
mapping purposes. In addition, one planner from each state and one from the
development section of the MOE would receive training abroad in educational
planning. Bank financing would be provided for (a) one man-year of short-term
expatriate specialists to assist in conducting training workshops and develop-
ing school mapping procedures, and (b) 12 man-years of overseas training,
including eight fellowships in educational planning and related short study
tours (Appendix 5). During negotiations agreement was reached with the
Government on a timetable for training personnel in school mapping and deve-
lopment planning.
4.07      Investment Criteria.  The proposed loan would support all major
construction of primary schools during the Third Plan in Kedah, Kelantan,
Pahang, Perak, Sabah, Sarawak and Trengganu. The seven states were selected
since they have the least developed school systems and are the most dis-
advantaged as measured by a variety of socio-economic indicators (Appendix 2).
In preparation for the Third Plan, the MOE conducted a survey in these states
which identified a need during the Plan period for construction of 150 new
schools, expansion of 350 existing schools, and replacement of 350 dilapidated,
condemned or otherwise inadequate schools.
4.08      The criteria used in identifying the need and priority locations for
new schools include: participation rates, overcrowding in existing schools,
transit time from pupils' homes to school, location of existing schools, and
projected population. Extension to existing schools would be based on these
criteria as well as to achieve complete (six year) primary schools and to
eliminate double shifting. Replacement schools would be built where exist-
ing schools have been condemned by the PWD, due to dilapidated condition or
unsuitable location (e.g., frequent flooding, landslides), or are otherwise
unsuitable. The proposed project would finance construction of needed pri-
mary schools approximately as follows:



- 14 -
Number
of      %            Number of Classrooms                %
State      Schools  Total   New  Expansion  Replacement   Total  Total
Kedah          68      8      260       -          300         560      14
Kelantan       76      9       60        -         480         540      13
Pahang         61      7      350        -         270         620      15
Perak          61      7       10       -          520         530      13
Trengganu      38      5      170       -          150         320       8
Sub-Total    304      36      850       -        1,720       2,570      63
Sabah         283     34      120      550          40         710      18
Sarawak       261     30      150      270         370         790      19
Sub-Total    544      64      270      820         410       1,500      37
Total         848    100   1,120       820       2,130       4,070    100
This allocation of facilities is broadly consistent with the needs in each
state. It would serve to redress interstate inequities since it provides
relatively more construction for the most disadvantaged states (Appendix 2).
It would also redress existing intra-state inequities, because construction
would be located in areas particularly ill-served by schools. Such areas have
been identified tentatively for all project schools. Refinements to the
interstate allocation of facilities and to tentative locations of project
schools within states would be expected to result from the school mapping
exercise as annual building programs are reviewed. Bank financing would be
provided to construct, equip and furnish approximately 4,100 classrooms and
related facilities at about 850 schools. During negotiations the Government
provided assurances that it would submit to the Bank for its information
proposed annual primary school construction plans indicating distribution of
facilities by and within state with supporting rationale.
4.09      Physical Facilities.  Two standard primary school designs would be
used, one for full-size schools, the other for sub-size schools (less than
six classrooms). Full-size schools would include six or more classrooms,
each to accommodate 50 pupils, and a canteen and administrative and storage
space. Sub-size schools would be provided in areas of low population density
where a six-classroom school could not be justified. They would provide two
to five classrooms, each to accommodate 40 pupils, and a limited amount of
space for administration and storage. In rural areas where housing is un-
available, staff quarters (about 700 units) would be provided to attract and
retain teachers. Because of physical obstacles to daily commuting (mainly
rivers), hostels for about 1,200 pupils would be provided in remote areas of
Sarawak. Acceptable standard designs have been developed for primary school
facilities.
4.10      Students and Curricula.  Criteria used to select project states
(Appendix 2) and school locations within the states (para. 4.08) ensure that



- 15 -
most pupils attending project schools would be drawn from Malaysia's most
disadvantaged groups. In total, about 190,000 primary school places (represent-
ing about 20% of existing places in the seven project states) would be provided.
Excluding replacement of existing substandard facilities, the project would
provide a net addition of 100,000 places. The national curricula would be
taught in project schools as elsewhere in the country. Classrooms would
economize on space, yet be large enough to permit student-centered activities
which the National Curriculum Development Center is developing. These activi-
ties entail small groups of pupils working at special activity centers in
the room, such as a science corner and reading table. Bank financing would
be provided for purchase of supplementary reading books (100 books/classroom)
and basic instructional equipment.
4.11      Pre-service Teacher Training.  In order to make up the projected
deficit of primary teachers in Sarawak (para 3.13), the proposed project would
establish a new teacher training college at Miri. Core staff for the college
would come from an existing college at Sibu which is to be closed. The Sibu
college is housed in inadequate facilities designed originally to serve as a
temporary primary school. Buildings are unsuitable, and overcrowded even for
the present enrollment of 150. The new college at Miri would be designed to
enroll 480 teacher trainees in a two-year course. Output would be about 240
annually, to provide the needed increase of 170 over the present output of 70
at Sibu. Location of the new college at Miri would provide geographic balance
to the distribution of teacher colleges in Sarawak. Bank financing would be
provided for construction, equipment and furniture for the college, and for
16 man-years of fellowships for staff training (Appendix 5).
4.12      In-Service Teacher Training.  The proposed project would help es-
tablish the first four Education Resource Centers in Alor Star (Kedah), Kota
Bahru (Kelantan), Kuala Trengganu (Trengganu) and Kuantan (Pahang). Existing
education department staff in these states have the administrative capability
to manage the Centers. The staff of the Centers, drawn from the State educa-
tion office, would include teacher trainers, curriculum developers, and mass
media and audio-video specialists. About 12 specialists would be provided one
year each of overseas training (Appendix 5). The staff of the Centers would
organize in-service courses at schools within the state for about 2,000 teach-
ers annually and would conduct short courses, generally a week long, through-
out the year at the Center for another 2,000 teachers annually. Most teachers
would thereby receive an in-service course every two years. All in-service
teacher training within the state would be managed by the Center, ensuring
coordination of programs. In the early stages, efforts would be focused on
primary school teachers who are uncertified or poorly qualified (para 3.04),
and on teachers of project schools to demonstrate use of new equipment. Ar-
rangements have been made to release teachers from their schools to attend
training sessions. Each Center would provide office space for 17 profes-
sionals, a mass media workshop, classrooms for 60 teachers, dormitory
space for 40, and one staff house. Bank financing would be provided to
construct, equip and furnish the four Education Resource Centers and for
12 man-years of fellowships (Appendix 5).



- 16 -
Industrial Training Institutes (proposed outlay: US$11.1 million)
4.13      To help provide the skilled manpower necessary for industrial de-
velopment (paras 2.07 and 3.10), the project would include the establishment
of three new Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) at Kuala Trengganu, Johore
Bahru and Kota Kinabalu and extensions to the two existing ITIs at Kuala Lumpur
and Prai. Industrial training capacity would be increased from 900 to about
2,900 trainees in double shifts (Annex 4). Output from the five ITIs would
increase from 700 to about 2,000 skilled workers annually, about one-fourth
of the estimated output from all industrial training programs in 1980.  The
ITIs would be located at existing industrial areas and new industrial estates.
Boarding would be included in the proposed project for about two-thirds of
the planned enrollment, since the five ITIs would serve out-of-state youths
and employees as well as those working nearby.
4.14      The ITIs would be operated by the MOLM.  They would provide both
pre- and in-service vocational training. Enrollment in in-service courses
would vary in response to demand, but is expected to average about 20% of
total enrollment. Courses new to Malaysia would be offered in tool and die-
making, foundry work, drafting, textile industry mechanics, food processing
technology, and timber industry mechanics. to meet the requirements of growing
new industries in Malaysia. The five ITIs would require a total of 274 in-
structors (Annex 4) who would be supplied from the two one-year instructors
courses operated at the Kuala Lumpur ITI. The quality of instructor training
would be improved by 30 man-years of fellowships and 19 man-years of specia-
list services provided in the project (Appendix 5) to give updating and
additional training to the trainers of the existing courses and specialized
training to the trainers of new courses. Inclusion of two years industrial
experience and trade proficiency certificates as part of instructors' quali-
fications ensures that all instructors have had both industrial and practical
experience. Bank financing would include construction, equipment, furniture
at all five ITIs, and related technical assistance.
Community Education (proposed outlay: US$0.4 million)
4.15      The Government is planning to undertake a systematic study of
existing non-formal education programs which would provide the basis for a
project to correct weaknesses of the system (para 3.14) and establish new pro-
grams. The study would be comprised of three main elements - evaluation,
action research, and recommendations for future action. The evaluation would:
(a) describe Malaysian non-formal education and rural development work; (b)
identify and analyze the effectiveness of the structures and programs of the
organizations involved; and (c) evaluate the training provided to community
development staff. The action research element would construct three community
service centers which would develop and evaluate teaching programs, curricula,
and modes of operation in the process of delivering non-formal education to
surrounding communities.  The third element would summarize the findings
of the evaluation and action research and present the Government with recom-
mendations for improvement of non-formal education programs and the training
of community development personnel.



- 17 -
4.16      The Community Development Division of the MOA would be responsible
for the study and would contract with the Malaysian Center for Development
Studies (MCDS) to do evaluation, program and curriculum development, and re-
port writing. The proposed Bank loan would provide financing for the MCDS
contract and 2.5 man-years of specialist services (Appendix 5), and for the
construction, equipment, and furnishing of the three community service centers.
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost Estimates
5.01      Estimated costs of the project are given in Annex 5 and are summarized
below.
M$ (Million)                   US$ (Million)
Project Item Groups    Local    Foreign   Total        Local    Foreign    Total
Ministry of Education
Primary Schools (850)  141.13    44.43    185.56    54.69         17.22      71.91
Teacher Trg. College
(1)                     5.22      2.02       7.24     2.03       0.78       2.81
Education Resource
Centers (4)             2.66      1.68       4.34     1.03       0.65       1.68
Technical Assistance      0.10      0.92       1.02      0.04      0.36       0.40
Sub-Total          149.11    49.05    198.16    57.79        19.01      76.80
Ministry of Labor and
Manpower
New Industrial Training
Institutes (3)          8.84      6.42      15.26     3.42       2.49       5.91
Expansion (2)             3.83      5.86       9.69      1.49      2.27       3.76
Technical Assistance      0.36      3.27       3.63      0.14      1.27       1.41
Sub-Total           13.03    15.55      28.58      5.05       6.03      11.08
Ministry of Agricul-
ture
Community Service
Centers (3)             0.26      0.15       0.41     0.10       0.06       0.16
Technical Assistance      0.07      0.62       0.69      0.03      0.24       0.27
Sub-Total            0.33      0.77       1.10     0.13       0.30       0.43
Total Base Cost          162.47    65.37    227.84    62.97       25.34      88.31
Contingencies
Physical                 19.35      6.63      25.98      7.50      2.57      10.07
Price                    48.91    18.71       67.62    18.96        7.25     26.21
Total Contingencies       68.26    25.34      93.60    26.46       9.82      36.28
Total Project Cost      230.73    90.71    321.44    89.43        35.16    124.59



- 18 -
5.02      Construction cost estimates are based on the recent cost of similar
institutions in Malaysia and refer to prices in June 1976.  The average
building cost per square foot at about US$7 for the primary schools, US$10
for the Teacher Training College (TTC) and US$13 for Industrial Training
Institutes are reasonable and compare well to construction costs in other
Asian countries. The estimated unit capital costs per place are reasonable.
Even though local materials (e.g., wood) would be used to the extent prac-
ticable, construction costs in Sabah and Sarawak are about 25-40% higher than
in Peninsular Malaysia. This difference is due largely to high cost of
transportation of those building materials imported from Peninsular Malaysia,
transportation costs of local materials to the remote construction sites (by
truck, boat, etc.), higher labor cost and less competition in bidding.
5.03      Utilization  factors for classrooms, workshops and laboratories of
the project institutions are economical at about 80%. Estimates of equipment
costs are based on preliminary equipment lists for project institutions, as
reviewed and revised during appraisal. These estimates, which take account
of the equipment already available, are reasonable. Technical assistance
costs were estimated on the basis of US$55,000 per man year for expert serv-
ices and US$12,000 for fellowships. About 6% of total project costs would be
allocated for staff housing, and about 3% for hostel facilities. Standard
plans would be reviewed by the Bank to assist in keeping costs down.
5.04      Physical contingencies (Annex 6) add about 19% 1/ for unforeseen
factors to the cost estimates of site development and 10% to construction,
furniture, equipment and professional services. A total price contingency
of US$26.2 million is included for expected price escalation at the follow-
ing annual rates for various components:
Annual Percentages
1976    1977    1978    1979
1.   Civil Works                  13       11       8        8
2.   Furniture and
Professional Services       9       8        7        7
3.   Equipment                    10        9       8        7
1/   A 20% physical contingency has been added to the cost of site develop-
ment of the primary schools and TTC compared with 10% for the remaining
project items. This 20% contingency is required because most of the
rural primary schools would be sited in padi fields, rubber plantation
and jungle. Based on past experience in Malaysia these sites often need
additional earth filling, clearing and special foundation or piling.
This would also apply to water supplies from deep wells, which may
require more drilling than anticipated.



- 19 -
5.05      Based on detailed analysis during appraisal, the foreign exchange
component has been estimated as follows: (a) site development, 15%; (b) fur-
niture, 20%; (c) construction, 25%; (d) equipment, 90%; (e) professional ser-
vices, 10%; and (f) specialist services, 90%. These percentages have been
derived by (i) determining the costs of civil works and furniture attributable
to material, labor, overhead and profit, and (ii) analyzing the awards made
under loans 810-MA and 974-MA for equipment. Including contingencies, the
foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$35.2 million, or about 28%
of the total project cost.
Financial Plan
5.06      The proposed Bank loan, as requested by the Government, would
finance part of the costs of civil works, furniture, equipment, professional
services and specialist services, as follows:
US$ Millions
% Bank
Government    Bank    Total    Financing
I.  Ministry of Education
Base Cost                        55.9        20.9     76.8        27
Contingencies                    26.4         5.9     32.3         -
Sub-Total                   82.3        26.8    109.1         25
II. Ministry of Labor and
Manpower
Base Cost                         4.7         6.4    11.1         58
Contingencies                     2.5         1.4     3.9          -
Sub-Total                     7.2         7.8    15.0         52
III.  Ministry of Agriculture
Base Cost                         0.1         0.3      0.4        75
Contingencies                      -          0.1     0.1          -
Sub-Total                     0.1         0.4     0.5         80
TOTAL                            89.6        35.0   124.6         28
5.07      The incremental recurrent expenditure generated by this project
would amount to about M$ 30 million p.a. for the Ministry of Education and
M$3.5 million p.a. for the Ministry of Labor and Manpower (in 1975 prices).
This represents about 3% of the MOE recurrent budget in 1975, and about 75%
of the training budget of the MOLM. The additional expenditures could be
accommodated without undue financial difficulty to the Government within the
feasible growth of education expenditures because the Government assigns high
priority to the proposed project components.
t



- 20 -
Project Implementation
5.08      An important objective of the project is to increase the capacity
of the Government to implement its primary school construction program.
Increased capacity is required mainly because the proposed project entails
construction of more than twice the average number of primary classrooms pre-
viously built per year in the seven project states. The local construction
industry has the capacity to absorb such increases, but the implementation
capacity of the MOE and PWD would need to be considerably strengthened.
The existing project unit in the MOE, responsible for implementation of
the three present Bank projects, would be provided additional staff to
supervise execution of the fourth project. At the state level the existing
education development officers would be designated as state (or regional)
project coordinators. Assistants to state education development officers
would be recruited in each state to carry out school mapping and physical
planning, both during the life of the project and thereafter.
5.09      Design, tendering and supervision of civil works for the primary
schools and four ITIs would be the responsibility of the Federal and State
Public Works Departments. To plan and supervise the accelerated rate of
construction, staffing of the PWD would need to be increased. Implementation
of the project, including the ITI component to be executed by the Training
Services Division of the MOLM, would require about 110 staff at the Federal
and State levels, of whom about 85 would be new appointments or transferred
to implement the project, as follows:
Of whom:
New/Transfer
Total Staff         Staff
Ministry of Education:  Project Unit              6               4
State Officers         45              26
Ministry of Labor and Manpower                    4               2
Public Works Department                          54              54
Total               109              86
Details of staffing requirements are presented in Annex 7.
5.10      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on a
five-year staffing program for the implementation of the project. Also the
Government gave assurances during negotiations that it would undertake to
appoint staff in accordance with Annex 7. The project directors in both the
MOE and the MOLM have been designated. Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) in respect to the MOE project component, appointment of the full-time proj-
ect architect to the MOE project unit; in respect to the primary school compon-
ent for each respective state, the creation of the position of the State Assist-
ant Development Officer; in addition, in respect to the primary school component
in Sabah and Sarawak, creation of the position of Assistant for Development to



- 21 -
the Resident (in the case of Sabah) and Division (in the case of Sarawak)
Education Officer and the designation of the Residency or Division Project
Coordinator in each Residency or Division; and (b) in respect to the MOLM
project component, creation of the position for one project architect or
engineer and one procurement officer.
Maintenance
5.11      The use of local materials would be encouraged in construction of
rural primary schools(para 5.02). In Sabah and Sarawak, this would mean
using timber to build schools. The life cycle of these wood buildings would
be extended from about 15 to 20 years by appropriate treatment of timber
before construction and proper maintenance later.
Professional Services
5.12      The PWD has prepared standard designs for project primary schools.
The PWD would prepare site plans and contract documents, organize bidding
and supervise construction of the primary schools. However, because of its
present commitments and workload, the PWD would require additional staff (para
5.09) to perform these functions. Should the Government be unable to provide
the required staff as civil servants, they could be provided under the project
as professional services. Staff constraints in the PWD require that consultant
architects be employed to design, prepare contract documents for, and supervise
construction of, the Teacher Training College, four Education Resource Centers,
and the ITI at Kota Kinabalu and assist in engineering aspects of the remaining
ITIs. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that qualified consul-
tant architects would be employed to provide professional services related
to project institutions.
Sites
5.13      Suitable locations have been identified tentatively for all 850
project primary schools (para 4.08). Refinements to the locations resulting
from the school mapping exercise would be expected as annual building programs
are reviewed. Most sites (about 75%) for schools in the first year construc-
tion program are owned by the MOE or have been acquired. Suitable sites for
the new ITIs at Johore Bahru, Kota Kinabalu and Kuala Trengganu and the
Education Resource Centers at Alor Star, Kota Bahru, Kuantan and Kuala
Trengganu have been selected and are in the process of acquisition. The site
for the TTC at Miri has not been selected. During negotiations the Govern-
ment provided assurances that it would select and acquire suitable sites for
project institutions six months before the scheduled start of construction.
Procurement
5.14      Contracts for civil works and furniture would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding following domestic advertising and local pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign contractors would be allowed to
participate. This is justified because (a) contracts would be small and



- 22 -
locations scattered; (b) all civil works in the first, second and third
education projects have been awarded to local contractors even though for-
eign firms were allowed to submit bids; and (c) Malaysia's construction
industry is large and efficient. Prior Bank approval would be required
for all civil works contracts except those for the project primary schools.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances to waive existing
preferences applicable to local contractors in bidding, evaluation and award
of civil works contracts under the proposed project.
5.15      Equipment contracts over US$100,000 equivalent would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. In bid comparison, domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing customs duty, whichever
is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports. Direct government
imports are exempt from customs duties and taxes. Equipment purchases which
cannot reasonably be grouped to form contracts for at least US$100,000 equi-
valent could be awarded without prior Bank approval on the basis of compet-
itive bidding advertised locally following government procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, off-the-shelf items, not exceeding
US$10,000 in each contract and aggregating a total of less than US$250,000
equivalent could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations.
Books would be purchased in accordance with the normal procedures of the
Borrower.
5.16      Disbursement.  The proposed loan of US$35.0 million would finance
28% of total project costs. The Bank financial assistance would be dis-
bursed in accordance with Schedule I of the Loan Agreement to meet:
(a) 100% of the c.i.f. costs of directly imported equipment;
(b) 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment;
(c) 70% of the cost of the imported and locally procured
equipment;
(d) 25% of the expenditures on civil works, professional
services, and furniture; and
(e) 100% of the total cost of technical assistance.
To the extent practicable withdrawal applications would be aggregated in
groups of US$50,000 prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of
the proceeds of the proposed loan. Disbursement for civil works for the pri-
mary schools would be made against quarterly summaries of expenditures pre-
pared by the PWD and certified by the MOE. The supporting documents for these
expenditures would be retained by the MOE and held available for inspection by
progress review missions. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in
Annex 8. Undisbursed funds could be used with the approval of the Bank (a) to



- 23 -
construct additional primary schools in particularly disadvantaged areas
identified by indicators to be developed by the MOE (para 4.04) or (b) for
other project related components. Disbursement is expected to be completed
by June 30, 1982.
5.17      Documentation.  Since a large number of schools (about 850) are
involved in the primary school component of the project, special arrangements
for record-keeping would have to be made for this component. The MOE project
unit would maintain a file for each project school available for inspection by
the Bank's progress review missions. Each file would include: (a) the com-
pleted educational/architectural brief; (b) the layout plans; (c) bids re-
ceived; (d) bid analysis and contract recommendation and award; and (e)
details of expenditures.
5.18      Implementation Period.  The proposed project would be implemented
in about five years, but construction and procurement of the equipment and
furniture should be completed for (a) the Ministry of Education project items
in about four years and (b) the Ministry of Labor and Manpower in about three
years (Annexes 9 and 10). Preparations for implementation are in an advanced
stage. The first year construction program has been consolidated and has been
finalized. Standard primary school designs have been completed and appruved
by the Bank. The MOE is preparing for a first stage of tendering in October
1976.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Institutional Development.  A central objective of the project, and
an important justification for IBRD financing, is to strengthen planning
mechanisms for better allocation of education resources. The project would
introduce procedures based on objective criteria for allocation of resources
between education levels, among states and within states. Under the project,
school planning offices at the division, state and national level would be
strengthened in personnel and expertise to undertake and review school map-
ping. Procedures for collection and analysis of data required for school
mapping would be standardized. A set of indicators would be developed to
measure educational priorities by state. Within states the process would
improve decisions regarding school size, location of new schools, consolida-
tion of small schools and expansion of existing schools. This process would
economize on the use of resources and reduce misallocation of education in-
vestments. The project would also contribute to improved allocations between
states and levels of education by documenting relative needs and ensuring
that funds allocated to primary education are not diverted to other types
of education.
6.02      Equity.  Even though primary enrollment is virtually universal much
of this enrollment is accommodated in substandard facilities which impede
effective learning. Inadequate facilities and poorly qualified teachers
tend to be concentrated in areas deprived of most other social and economic



- 24 -
amenities. Investment in primary education is therefore a priority to
improve the quality of schooling in these disadvantaged areas. The pro-
posed project would help replace substandard primary school facilities,
provide new facilities required to relieve overcrowding, attract better
teachers to rural areas by providing them with housing where it is unavail-
able, and retrain existing teachers. Criteria used to select project states
and school locations within states would ensure that children attending
project schools would be drawn from Malaysia's most disadvantaged groups. In
the short term improved quality of primary education for 240,000 youths in
disadvantaged areas is expected to reduce dropouts, increase pupil achieve-
ments, and bring the level of primary schooling in Malaysia's poverty states
more nearly equal to that provided in the more developed states. In the
medium term, it would help reduce disparities between socio-economic groups
in opportunities for secondary and higher education. In the long term, the
project would help reduce income differentials, part of which are attribut-
able to inequities in initial provision of education.
6.03      Manpower.  Another objective of the proposed project would be to
increase the supply of trained manpower required for continued development of
industry. The proposed increase in the training capacity of ITIs would help
produce an additional 6,500 skilled workers between 1980-85, or about 17/. of
the projected supply, many in newly emerging fields. This increased supply
of skilled workers is expected to support the growth of manufacturing output
on which Malaysia's development strategy depends. The project would also
provide direct support to the construction industry by generating about
20,000 man-years of employment for construction workers.
6.04      Risks.  The principal risk to be considered is that the Govern-
ment may not meet its long term commitment to school mapping and allocation
of educational resources based on objective criteria of need. The Government
is now committed to such a process. The commitment is likely to grow rather
than diminish, even though vested interests in particular cases may cause
exceptions to standardized school planning procedures. There is also some
risk involved in placing additional responsibility for an increased school
construction program on the PWD, particularly in view of the additional
construction demands by other ministries under the Third Plan. However,
the performance of the PWD was good under the Second Plan (80% of targeted
classrooms) and the project includes special measures designed to strengthen
the implementation capacity of the MOE and PWD. Success of the vocational
training component would depend mainly on the supply of experienced and
practical instructors, which has been judged to be adequate. In spite of
these risks, the project promises to make an important contribution towards
better educational facilities and teachers for disadvantaged areas, improved
use of educational resources and an increased supply of skilled manpower.



- 25 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      During nogotiations agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points:
(a) development and collection by the Government of educational
indicators for each of the Project States (para 4.04); esta-
blishment of school mapping and planning procedures (para
4.05); submission of annual primary school construction
programs to the Bank for information (para 4.08); and
(b) staffing program and appointment schedule for project
implementation (para 5.10); use of consultant architects
(para 5.12); and schedule for remaining site acquisition
(para 5.13).
7.02      The Government has already taken the following steps in pre-
paration for project implementation:
(a) establishment of joint MOE-PWD development committees
in each of the project states (para 4.05);
(b) development of acceptable standard designs for primary
school facilities (para 4.09);
(c) designation of the project director in both the MOE
and the MOLM (para 5.10); and
(d) completion of the first year primary school construction
program (para 5.18).
7.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) in respect to the MOE project component, designation of
the full-time project architect to the MOE project unit; in
respect to the primary school component for each state, the
creation of the position of the State Assistant Development
Officer; in addition, in respect to the primary school compon-
ent in Sabah and Sarawak, creation of the position of Assistant
for Development to the Resident (in the case of Sabah) and
Division (in the case of Sarawak) Education Officer and the
designation of the Residency or Division Project Coordinator
in each Residency or Division (para 5.10);
(b) in respect to the MOLM project component, creation of the
position for one project architect or engineer and one procure-
ment officer (para 5.10).



- 26 -
7.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$35.0 million equivalent to the Govern-
ment of Malaysia for a term of 17 years, including a three and one-half-year
grace period.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS BANK EDUCATION PROJECTS
Three education projects are presently being carried out with
Bank assistance.  They can be summarized as follows:
A.   Malaysia I (Loan 599-MA)
(i) Project Description:
Total project cost (appraisal estimate)             US$16.4 million
Amount of loan                                      US$8.8 million
Amount disbursed (as of 6/30/76)                    US$6.0 million
Date of Loan Agreement                              May 23, 1969
Closing Date (original, December 31, 1974)          March 31, 1977
(ii)  Project Content:
Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a) five new secondary technical schools, six new secondary
vocational schools and three new agricultural schools in
West Malaysia;
(b) one new primary teacher training college, three new
general secondary schools and extensions to two general
secondary schools in Sabah; and
(c) extension to one vocational school in Sarawak.
(iii)  Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.  Of the
21 project institutions 20 have been completed. The construction
of one agricultural school was first delayed when soil at the
proposed site was found to be unsuitable for farming. After
selection of a second site, construction was further delayed
by extraordinary flooding in 1975. Consequently, the Closing
Date was first extended to June 30, 1976 and again to March
31, 1977, about two years and three months behind schedule.
Operation, however, has commenced in all the other 20 project
schools where all construction, equipment (except some
minor items) and furniture procurement have been completed.
Total project cost is expected to be about US$1.7 million
lower than originally estimated, because there are savings in the
equipment category and the unallocated amount has not been used



APPENDIX I
Page 2
at all. An amount of US$0.7 million has been used to finance
part of the equipment cost of the second project which has an overall
cost overrun. The balance of about US$1.0 million may be used in
the same manner, pending the Government's detailed analysis of the
project cost and a formal request for the use of this balance
based on that analysis. Some of the contingency funds provided
for this project will not be used, due primarily to the
stability in construction costs in the early seventies when
most civil works contracts were awarded.
The output from project schools has reached about 40% of the
original objectives set for the target date in 1975. The quality of
training has not been assessed, because the equipment has only
been installed recently. The employment prospects of graduates
are not evaluated because the gradutes have just completed
their final examination.
B.   Malaysia II (Loan 810-MA)
(i) Project Description:
Total project cost (appraisal estimate)             US$28.5 million
Amount of Loan                                      US$15.5 million
Amount disbursed (as of 6/30/76)                    US$2.8 million
Date of Loan Agreement                              April 5, 1972
Closing Date                                        December 31,1977
(ii) Project Content:
Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a) a curriculum development center, a new studio for educational
television (ETV), one secondary technical school, four second-
ary vocational schools and science schools for University of
Penang in West Malaysia;
(b) one secondary vocational school in Sabah;
(c) two secondary vocational schools in Sarawak; and
(d) supply of about 5,000 TV receivers for schools.
(iii) Project implementation is about 14 months behind schedule due to
initial delays in the appointnent of consultant architects, the
late approval of the campus pl,an by the University of Penang and
the slowness of the PWD (caused by understaffing) in preparing
documents, but has been improving. Without further delay, the
project will be completed before the Closing Date. Total pro-
ject cost will be about 40% over the appraisal estimate due to
sharp increases in construction costs in the past three years, but
is not expected to further increase as nearly all civil works



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
contracts have been awarded. Five thousand five hundred TV
receivers have been purchased and are being used. Apart from
the use of the surplus funds from the first education project
under Loan 599-MA to finance part of the equipment in the
second project, the Government is prepared to finance the cost
overrun.
It is too early to evaluate the achievement of the educational
objectives of this project, as procurement of goods is still in
progress. However, achievements in the in-service courses under
the curriculum development center project item and the number
of pupils now covered under the ETV project item are satisfactory.
C.   Malaysia III (Loan 974-MA)
(i) Project Description:
Total project cost (appraisal estimate)             US$41.4 million
Amount of Loan                                      US$19.0 million
Amount disbursed (as of 6/30/76)                    US$0.1 million
Date of Loan Agreement                              April 5, 1974
Closing Date                                        December 31, 1980
(ii) Project Content:
Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a) four teacher training colleges and one polytechnic institute
in West Malaysia;
(b) seven general secondary schools in Sabah; and
(c)  a junior college in Sarawak; technical assistance for
the polytechnic; and educational radio and television
in Sabah and Sarawak.
(iii)  Project implementation, still at the initial stage is satisfactory
in East Malaysia. Construction of schools in Sabah and Sarawak is
ahead of schedule, mainly due to consultant architect's efforts.
Progress on civil works in West Malaysia is about seven months
behind schedule due to delays in site selection for the teacher
training colleges and staff shortages in the Public Works Department
for design work. Equipment procurement which is still at the stage
of preparing master lists is also behind schedule. There is also a
delay in the implementation of the technical assistance program
for the polytechnic institute but the Government's revised scheme
has been approved. As a result of these delays, disbursement on
this Loan is yet insignificant, but will improve in 1977 since
eight civil works contracts have been awarded. The project should
be completed on schedule and no cost overrun is foreseen at present.



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND EDUCATIONAL DISPARITIES
1.        Socio-economic disparities.  Two recent studies, one by the IBRD
and the other by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, 1/ compiled data on
poverty in Malaysia and analyzed socio-economic disparities by race (e.g.,
Malay, Chinese, Indian) and by occupation (e.g., fisherman, estate workers,
farm laborers, rubber small holders, padi cultivators). The reports indicate
that poverty groups, no matter how defined, tend to be concentrated in spe-
cific regions. They found that almost one-half of the total number of poor
households in Peninsular Malaysia are found in three states of Kelantan, Kedah
and Perak. They also found that poverty is extensive in the states of Treng-
ganu and Perlis.
2.        The following data on infant mortality, illiteracy and percentage
of households in poverty suggest the relative development of all thirteen
Malaysian states. The data are drawn from Annex 3. The figures in paren-
thesis indicate the rank order of the state on the given indicator (the
smallest numbers represent the least developed states). The first column
represents the average for the state of its rank orders of the three given
indicators.
1/ The Size Distribution of Income by Sudhir Anand, Development Research
Center, World Bank, 1974 and Problems of Rural Poverty in Malaysia,
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Study, IBRD Report No. 833-A, February 1975.



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
Average
Rank Order        Infant           Adult        Percentage of
of Following      Mortality      Illiteracy        Households
Columns          Rate            Rate           in Poverty
Sarawak                    1.0          n.a.           61  (1)           n.a.
Sabah                     2.0           n.a.           56  (2)           n.a.
Kelantan                  2.0           48  (2)         55  (3)          65  (1)
Trengganu                  2.3          54  (1)         51  (4)          55  (2)
Kedah/Perlis Ia           3.7           42  (3)         43  (5)          50  (3)
Perak                     5.7           39  (5)         38  (8)          34  (4)
Pahang                    6.3           41  (4)         39  (7)          31  (8)
Johore                    7.0           n. a.           37  (9)          33  (5)
Malacca                    7.5           38  (6)        35 (10)          32  (6.5)
Penang                    7.7           34  (8)        40  (6)           30  (9)
Negri Sembilan            8.5           36  (7)         32 (12)          32  (6.5)
Selangor                 10.0           30  (9)        33 (11)           19 (10)
National Average                        39              42               37
/a   Kedah and Perlis are treated together since many data for the two states
are provided together. Disaggregated data for Perlis are generally un-
available.
The data suggest that the states fall into four categories. The least
developed are Sarawak, Sabah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Kedah/Perlis. Perak
and Pahang are approximately average. Johore, Malacca and Penang are just
above average. Negri Sembilan and Selangor are the two most developed states.
The rank order of the individual states is dependent, of course, on the in-
dicator(s) used to measure socio-economic development. Nonetheless, the same
general pattern emerges for most groups of indicators.
3.        Educational disparities.  The pattern of disparities in provision
of educational services tends to be similar to that for other socio-economic
indicators. The most rural states, which are the poorest, are generally
least developed in educational terms. Based on data on primary and secondary
school enrollment ratios, adult literacy and level of educational expenditure,
a pattern of relative development for the states emerges which is similar



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
to that described above. The states of Sarawak, Sabah, Kelantan, Trengganu
and Kedah/Perlis comprise, as above, the least developed states. As above,
Pahang and Perak are approximately average. The somewhat above average group
comprised above of Johore, Penang and Malacca is joined by Selangor, leaving
Negri Sembilan as the most developed state. The data (see also Annex 3) on
primary and secondary enrollment ratios, adult literacy and level of education-
al expenditure, and the rank order (given in parenthesis) of the states
are:
MOE Current
Average of       Primary       Secondary                  Annual
Rank Orders    Education    Education    Adult           Recurrent
of Following   Enrollment   Enrollment  Literacy   Expenditure
Columns         Ratio         Ratio         Rate      per Capita
M$
Sarawak               1.3          83  (2)       39  (1)      38  (1)    53  (1)
Kedah/Perlis          3.6          84  (3)       46  (2.5)   57  (5)    68  (4)
Trengganu             4.0          86  (6.5)    46  (2.5)   49  (4)    67  (3)
Sabah                 4.3          76  (1)       51  (4.5)   44  (2)    81  (9.5)
Kelantan              4.6          85  (4.5)    56  (9)       45  (3)    66  (2)
Pahang                7.8          89  (10.5)   52  (6)       61  (7)    76  (7.5)
Perak                 7.9          89  (10.5)   53  (7)        62  (8)    72  (6)
Penang                8.0          87  (8)       57  (10.5)  60  (6)    76  (7.5)
Selangor              8.3          86  (6.5)    57  (10.5)  67  (11)   70  (5)
Malacca               8.4          85  (4.5)    54  (8)        65  (10)   83  (11)
Johore                8.8          91  (12)      51  (4.5)   63  (9)    81  (9.5)
Negri                11.3          88  (9)       59  (12)    68  (12)   92  (12)
Sembilan
4.        Disparities in primary school facilities.  Statistics related to
primary school facilities were compiled for the seven least developed states
as identified above (Sarawak, Kedah, Trengganu, Sabah, Kelantan, Pahang and
Perak). The indicators selected were the primary school enrollment ratio,
primary school enrollment per school, primary school enrollment per classroom,
and the proportion of primary schools housed in converted facilities. The
primary school enrollment ratio provides a measure of the extent to which
construction of new schools and classrooms is needed in order to provide
universal primary education. Enrollment per school provides a measure of



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
the extent to which construction is needed to expand schools with fewer than
six classrooms to provide the full six-year primary cycle. Enrollment
per classroom provides a measure of the extent to which construction is
needed to relieve overcrowding of existing facilities. And the proportion
of schools accommodated in converted facilities provides a measure of the
extent to which constuction is needed to replace inadequate facilities. The
data are drawn from Annex 3 (figures in parenthesis indicate the rank order
of the state on the given indicator). The first column represents the
average for the state of its rank orders on the two indicators for which
data are available for all states. The second column is the average of the
rank orders for all states.
Average
of Rank    Average
Orders of  of Rank      Primary   Primary    Primary        Proportion
Columns    Orders       School    School       School       of Primary
With       of All       Enroll-   Enroll-    Enroll-        Schools in
Complete   Following   ment        ment per   ment per    Converted
Data       Columns      Ratio      School      Classroom   Facilites
Sabah          1.5          1.5       76 (1)    161 (2)        n.a.         n.a.
Sarawak        1.5          1.5       83 (2)    139 (1)        n.a.         n.a.
Kedah          4.0          4.0       84 (3)    337 (5)       57 (3)       32 (5)
Trengganu      4.5          3.5       86 (5)    285 (4)       62 (2)       36 (3)
Pahang         4.8          3.6       89 (6.5)  248 (3)       56 (4)       39 (1)
Kelantan       5.0          4.8       85 (4)    344 (6)       54 (5)       34 (4)
Perak          6.8          4.1       89 (6.5)  354 (7)       65 (1)       38 (2)
The data suggest that the states of Sabah and Sarawak should be provided
priority in primary school construction.  Of the remaining five states,
Kelantan and Perak should be provided somewhat less priority.
5.        Distribution of project facilities.  Project facilities should be
allocated in order to redress existing inequities. However, no single alloca-
tion could be consistent with all indicators of disparities. The above
indicators generally suggest that eight states, namely Kedah, Kelantan,
Pahang, Perak, Perlis, Sabah, Sarawak and Trengganu are the least developed.
The proposed project provides support to each of these states except Perlis
which receives particular attention from the Government. The distribution of
project construction is as follows (rank orders shown in parentheses):



APPENDIX 2
Page 5
Project Allocation for
Primary School Construction
(sq ft/person)   (M$ millions)
Sabah              1.9  (1)          40.7  (1)
Pahang             1.6  (2)           25.2  (3)
Sarawak            1.3  (3)          38.5  (2)
Trengganu          1.1  (4)           13.4  (7)
Kelantan           1.1  (5)           21.7  (6)
Kedah              0.8  (6)           23.7  (4)
Perak              0.5  (7)           22.5  (5)
This order generally corresponds to the needs of the states for primary school
facilities identfied above. It would help redress existing imbalances in
primary school facilities.



APPENDIX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MANPOWER SITUATION
1.        One of the characteristics of the Government's development strategy
is its emphasis on employment generation. During the Second Malaysia Plan,
employment creation amounted to 592,000 jobs, that is, about 99% of the plan
objective of 600,000 jobs. This reduced the rate of open unemployment from
7.5% in 1970 to 7.0% in 1975.
2.        The Government's Perspective Plan (1971-1990) estimates GDP growth
at 7.1% per annum and employment growth at 3.2%. It also assumes that the
labor force will grow at about 3% during the period, thus enabling the
country to lower its unemployment rate to 4% in 1990.
3.        The manufacturing sector has been singled out as the most labor-
absorptive sector of the economy. Its share in total employment is expected
to grow from 10% of employment in 1970 to 25% in 1990. This growth will be
led by such industries as textiles, electronics, wood products, rubber products,
footwear and non-metallic mineral products. The construction sector and some
services such as tourism are also expected to increase their share in total
employment.
4.        Due to rapid industrialization, skilled production workers are
expected to be in great demand. This will require consolidation and exten-
sion of the vocational training system. Efforts should be directed simulta-
neously to the 65,000 new entrants into the labor force each year and to
those who are already employed but lack the skills required for industrial
expansion.
5.        Apprenticeship training for the young, and in-service training and
re-training for adults are two facets of a single strategy aiming at up-
grading the skill level of the labor-force. The network of Industrial Train-
ing Institutes (ITIs) under the Ministry of Labor and Manpower is designed to
implement this strategy in coordination with the Training Division of MARA
and the vocational schools of the Ministry of Education.
6.        The expected capacity of the three new ITIs and the two extensions
to the existing ITIs proposed under the present project would be around 2,900
places per annum. This figure would represent a substantial increase compared
to present capacity (900 places per annum) but a very small percentage of
either the new entrants or of the total number of production workers in the
labor force.



MALAYSIA
PRODUCTION WORKERS REQUIREMENTS
(Thousands)
17_
Annual Rates of Increase   Net Annual Requirements
1973       1980       1990     1973 - 1980  1980- - 1990         1980   1990
Production Workers
- Peninsular Malaysia   455         677        1,144       5.8          5.4                 60.2
among which employed
in manufacturing            247         390        714           6.7           6.2                 40.2
- Sabah                   22         32           47       5.5          3.9                  2.1
- Sarawak                 30         44           61       5.6          3.3                  2.6
Total                507        753        1,252       5.8           5.2                65.o
Total  Rniployed        3,152      3,975        5,449       3.4          3.2                226.9
Labor Force             3,400      4,247        5,676       3.2           2.9               227.8
Unemployment              7.3        6.4          4.0        -
1/ Assuming that 20% of the 1980 labor force will retire during the 1980-90 period.
Source: Economic Planning Unit - Kuala Lumpur.
CD hd



APPENDIX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATIONAL PLANNING AND SCHOOL MAPPING
1.        School Mapping and School Facilities Planning.  The proposed pro-
ject is designed to assist the Government in improving its capability to plan
school construction. It would help strengthen the process of school mapping
and the institutional structure for consolidating and reviewing long- and
short-term building programs. The process would improve decisions regarding
school size and location.  Thereby it would increase the returns to invest-
ments in school construction and make more equitable the access to primary
schools. The process and the institutions involved are described in the
following paragraphs.
2.        Planning for school size and location would begin at the loca'
level by completion of a standardized educational/architectural brief for
each proposed project school. In the states of Peninsular Malaysia, state
education supervisors (organizers) would be responsible for completing the
briefs. In Sabah and Sarawak responsibility would rest with the Residency and
Division education officers, respectively. The educational/architectural
brief would provide the basic information required for school mapping (school-
age population, its location, growth, migration, and school participation
rate; existing school facilities, their capacity and adequacy; and location
of existing schools and their position relative to each other, to population
centers, roads, other means of transport, and geographic obstacles such as
mountains, swamps, rivers) and data on existing buildings and on construction
sites (the condition of buildings, repairs which should be made, size of
the site, availability of utilities, site preparation needed, etc.).
3.        In the states of Sabah and Sarawak, the completed briefs would be
used by the Resident and Division education officers, respectively, to do
school mapping for their region, and for preparation of a construction
program for the region. The briefs and the Resident/Division construction
programs would then be forwarded to the state educational development officers.
The state development officer would be responsible for school mapping at the
state level, and for preparation of a consolidated state school construction
program. The consolidated construction program would be reviewed by a Pre-
liminary Review Committee which is to be established. The committee would
provide a forum for review of the construction program in order to resolve
inter-divisional allocation priorities. It would be chaired by the State of
Director of Education or his designate, and its membership would be comprised
of the State Education Development Officer and the Resident/Division education
officers. In the states of Peninsular Malaysia, which have no educational



APPENDIX 4
Page 2
administrative units comparable to the Residencies/Divisions of East Malaysia,
all school maps and construction plans would be prepared by the State Educa-
tion Development Officer.
4.        The state construction program would be submitted to a joint MOE-PWD
state development committee responsible for primary school construction. The
state committee would be chaired by the State Director of Education or his de-
signate. Its membership would include appropriate members of his staff (the
development officer in all states and organizers on the Peninsular states)
and staff of the state PWD office responsible for primary school construction.
On the basis of the school mapping exercise and the educational/architectural
brief, the joint committee would finalize the state primary school construction
program. I'he state program would be submitted to the Educational Planning
Committee of the MOE in Kuala Lumpur for approval. The planning process is
summarized as follows:



APPENDIX 4
Page 3
Responsible Agency/Personnel               Function
School Level
State Education                            -   completion
Organizers and                                 educational/archi-
Supervisors                                    tectural brief to
(Division/Residency                            provide data for
Education Office in                            school mapping and
Sabah and Sarawak)                             planning and data
for repair/con-
demnation and
construction
Division/Residency Level
*Division/Residency                         -   Division/Residency
Education Office                               level school mapping
-   preparation Division/
Residency level
construction pla-
State Level
State Education                           -   State level school
Development                                    mapping
Office                                     -   preparation state
level construction
plan
*Preliminary                                -   resolution inter-
Review Committee                               Division/Residency
allocation priorities
Joint MOE-PWD                              -   finalization State
Development                                    construction plan
Committee                                  -   provision coordinating
link between MOE and PWD
National Level
National Educational Planning              -   national level
Committee of MOE                               school mapping
-   resolution inter-state
allocation priorities
-   consolidation State
plans into national
construction plan
* Sabah and Sarawak only.



APPENDIX 4
Page 4
5.        Modified versions of these procedures have been followed in an
informal manner in preparation of the construction program which the pro-
posed project would support. The proposed project would help standardize
and formalize the procedures, and improve on them.



APPENDIX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
Technical Assistance
1.1       Fellowships.  The proposed project includes the cost of 70 man-years
of fellowships for training 58 professionals overseas in the fields of educ-
ational planning, teacher training and technical/vocational training. The
distribution of fellows would be as follows:
Number of     Man-
Areas of Study                                   Agency     Fellows      Months
Education Planning/School Mapping                /a          /a           144
Pre-service Teacher Training
Educational Psychology                    Miri TTC       1            24
Tests and Measurement                        "           1            24
Science Education                            "           1            24
Mathematics Education                         "          1            24
Home Science                                 "           1            24
Language Teaching                                        2            48
Social Studies Teaching                                  1            24
Sub-total                                              8           192
In-service Teacher Training
Science and Mathematics Education           /b           4            48
Educational Technology                      lb           4            48
Organization of In-service
Training                                 /b           4            48
Sub-total                                             12           144
Technical/Vocational Training
Foundry/Pattern Making                    MOLM           4            48
Textiles                                    "            6            72
Food Processing                                          3            36
Printing                                                 4            48
Metal Fabrication/Erection                               3            36
Electronics                                              6            72
Tool and Die-making                                      4            48
Sub-total                                             30           360
Total                                                 58           840
/a   One planner from the MOE and one from the education office of each project
state would receive longer-term (9-18 months) training abroad. In
addition, a few short study tours would be provided to review school
mapping procedures on-going in other countries.
/b   One professional from each of the four project Education Resource Centers.



APPENDIX 5
Page 2
1.2       Specialist Services.  The proposed project also includes the cost
of 22.5 man-years of specialist services required to implement the project.
These services would be provided to the MOE to train educational planners
in school mapping and to develop school mapping procedures and educational/
architectural briefs (Appendix 4). These services would be provided to the
MOLM to assist in:
(a) establishment of the new Industrial Training Institutes,
particularly for advice on shop layouts and preparation
of equipment lists with specifications;
(b) establishment of new courses in ITIs, including the review
and improvement of proposed curricula, preparation of
teaching materials and establishment of linkages with
industry;
(c) training of IT! instructors;
(d) preparatory work for converting the existing courses,
largely based on City and Guilds of London Institute
syllabi, to a modular system of training; and
(e) establishment of trade testing standards.
Also, specialist services would be provided to the MOA to assist in the
study of community education. Services of two kinds would be provided to
the MOA: first, 2.5 man-years of specialist services (described below);
and second, services of the Malaysian Center for Development Studies to
do evaluation. program and curriculum development, and report writing. The
distribution of specialist services would be:
Number of    Man-
Area of Spcialization                           Agency      Specialists   Months
Education Planning/School Mapping                MOE             a/         12
Industrial Training
Vocational Training Advisor                 MOLM            1          36
Foundry                                      "              1          24
Weaving/Knitting/Sewing Machines             "              2          48
Food Processing                              "1                        24
Offset Printing/Photographic
Lithography                                            1          24
Structural Metal Fabrication/
Erection                                               1          24
Industrial Electronics                                      1          24
Tool and Die-making                          "              1          24
Sub-total                                              9        228
a/   A number of specialists in school mapping would be used to assist in
training educational planning staff at shQrt workshops andtOf develop
school mapping procedures and educational/architectu al brie s.



APPENIDIX 5
Page 3
Number of    Man-
Area of Specialization                         Agency      Specialists   Months
Non-formal Education
Research Design/Statistical
Analysis                              MOA             b/          10
Community Development                       "              1            6
Pre-school Education                        "              1            4
Adult Education                                            1            6
Family Development                                         1            4
Sub-total                                             4           30
Total                                                13 c/       270
b/   Research design and statistical analysis could be contracted to an
individual or to a firm.
c/   Excludes specialists referred to in notes a/ and b/.
Note: The specialist services indicated for non-formal education exclude
the contract with the Malaysian Center for Development Studies to
do evaluation, program and curriculum development, and report
writing.
Professional Services
2.1       Staff of the PWD would need to be strengthened to prepare site
plans and contract documents, organize bidding and supervise construction of
the project primary schools (Annex 7). Should the Government be unable to
provide the required staff as civil servants, they could be provided under
the project as contracted professional services. Staff constraints in the
PWD require that consultant architects be employed to design, prepare con-
tract documents for and supervise construction of the Teacher Training Col-
lege, four Education Resource Centers and one Industrial Training Institute.



APPENDIX 6
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON PRIMARY SCHOOL BUILDING
1. Organization and Administration
1.01      The State Education Departments are responsible for the location
and size of new and/or extensions to existing schools to be built annually.
With the exception of Sabah and Sarawak, all school buildings proposed by
the State Education Departments have to be approved by the Federal Ministry
of Education. The Federal Ministry of Education in Peninsular Malaysia and
the State Education Departments in Sabah and Sarawak prepare the educational
background for the architect's brief of all primary and secondary schools.
In general, the criteria for construction of new schools and expansion of
existing schools have been:
(a)  excessive distance and/or transit time from pupils'
homes to existing schools;
(b)  overcrowding of existing facilities; and
(c)  population growth as a result of settlement schemes,
land development and other factors creating large
catchment groups.
Selection criteria for replacement schools have been mostly educational and
physical, particularly where the physical conditions constitute a hazard
or major handicap to minimum acceptable educational activity such as:
(a) periodic flooding, (b) landslides, (c) inadequate classroom space,
(d) insufficient lighting and ventilation, and (e) temporary, unmaintain-
able and condemned buildings.
1.02      The Chief Education Officer of each state concerned in Peninsular
Malaysia and the Education Departments in Sabah and Sarawak are responsible
for selecting suitable sites and negotiating with relevant authorities. The
Federal Ministry of Education in West Malaysia and the Education Departments
in Sabah and Sarawak then initiate necessary action for its acquisition. The
education facilities section of the Public Works Department provides the
necessary technical advice if requested.
1.03      Professional and Technical Services.  The Education Facilities
Section of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport in West Malaysia and
the PWDs in Sabah and Sarawak are responsible for the preparation of standard
designs. School design standards are decided by the Standards and Costs
Committee (EPU). Approvals must be obtained for deviations. Preparation of
contract documents, site surveys and contract awards are carried out by
the PWD in each state. Documents for work over M$100,000 must be approved by
the Education Works Section of the PWD. Construction supervision of the primary
and secondary school buildings are entirely the responsibility of the State
PWD in each state and construction is carried out by private local contractors.



APPENDIX 6
Page 2
1.04      Tender Procedures.  Tender notices are advertised in the local
newspapers. Interested contractors obtain the tender documents from the
respective PWD offices calling for tenders. In West Malayasia tenders are
opened by the tender opening committee and forwarded together with their re-
commendations and comments for approval to: (a) the Federal Public Works De-
partment Tender Board set up in each state, when tenders are below M$150,000,
and (b) the Federal Public Works Department in Kuala Lumpur, when tenders are
above M$150,000. In Sabah and Sarawak, the same procedures are followed except
that the decisions on contract awards are made by the state PWDs in all cases.
1.05      It is Government policy to favor Bumiputra (indigenous Malay) con-
tractors except for internationally financed contracts. Preferences up
to 10% in the bid comparison are given to Bumiputra contractors. In addition,
as a general rule, 30% of all public sector civil works contracts tendered
during any one year are tendered solely by Bumiputra contractors. Otherwise,
contracts are awarded to lowest evaluted bidders.
1.06      Data on Primary School Construction - West Malaysia.  Generally
two spans (20 feet and 25 feet) and two designs (single story and multiple
stories) with a net area of 600 sq ft and 750 sq ft per class respectively,
are used for the construction of primary schools. Single story buildings
are constructed with foundations and floor slabs in concrete; walls in
brick or concrete blocks plastered; pitched timber roof; corrugated asbestos-
cement roofing, wooden doors, adjustable glass louvered windows, cement floors,
asbestos-board ceilings and painted walls. Reinforced concrete structure
(foundation, columns, beams, floors and stairs) are used for buildings with
two stories and more. Urban schools are provided with water and electricity
from the town main; water for the rural schools come from their own wells
and electricity from their own generators.
1.07      Sabah and Sarawak.  The standard designs used for construction of
the urban primary schools in these states are similar to those described for
Peninsular Malaysia. Timber structure, raised on hardwood or concrete stilts,
is used for construction of the rural schools, with sawn timber walls and
floors, corrugated iron or asbestos-cement roofing, hardboard ceilings and
pitched roofs.
Additional Facilities
1.08      In addition to the classrooms, schools are provided with admin-
istration area, storage rooms and toilet facilities. Some schools are also
provided with canteens, prayer rooms,-science rooms, audio visual rooms,
dental clinics and libraries. Special rooms are generally underutilized.
Curricula being developed by the National Curriculum Development Center
require primary school teaching of grades 1-3 in an integrated classroom
rather than in a variety of special rooms. Hence provision of special rooms
is being abandoned.
1.09      Many rural schools are educationally unsuitable and uneconomical to
operate because of: (a) high repair and maintenance costs, (b) poor lighting



APPENDIX 6
Page 3
and ventilation, (c) high noise level between classrooms, (d) small classrooms,
and (e) unsanitary conditions.
1.10      Building Industry and Capacity. Malaysia has an efficient and large
construction industry which could execute the civil works of the proposed
project. Local consultant services with sufficient qualified consultant firms
are also available in Malaysia.
1.11      Construction Materials.  All construction materials are available
in Malaysia. The main imported building materials used in school construction
are window glass, plastic laminated boards, structural steel members, plastic
and lead pipes, electrical and sanitary fixtures, hardware and sheet metal.
In addition, Sabah and Sarawak import cement, metal windows, wood preserva-
tives and floor and wall tiles.
1.12      Building materials are generally transported by road in West Malaysia,
and by road, sea and river in Sabah and Sarawak.
1.13      Maintenance of Educational Facilities.  The Public Works Department
in each state is responsible for maintenance of schools.



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION  I43ICATORSANF  
Page 1
(JULY 25.1976)
GNP/    1 GNP   :1 TOTAL:%  Of PUBLIC                     :                     :PRI.  :AV.PRI.   I                          SEC 
!CAPITA:  DEVOTED:'J3LIC    EDUCATION    :L ITER-    PRI.  :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACHIPROGRESS-:  SEC.   STU- 
AT   I TO EDU.:.  EXP.    RECURRENT    :ACY              :ENROLL:TION         :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION  RATE  :ENROLL:DENTS:HIGHER:
'MARKET:  (PU8LIc:O~vaTED:EXP  ALLOCATED:   RATE  :ATIJ I'RATE FORIPER   :R7LATION :FROM PRI.:RATII I PER   :ENROLL:
POP.  .PRICES: EXP.    :  TO    I             TO :       1(Z 0OF      NET   :PRt.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :T0  SEC.   i NET   :TEACH4-  RATIO:
YR:(000)    ( US$)' ONLY)   :  EDJ). :PRI. SEC. H1.:ADULtS):  (1)   :CYCLE(X)IER                         r APITA         Z I              : 1  ER    () 
ADV9ANCED0
A J S R IA        7.1    7. 5   3 5 10       4 .3       . 9    47)9  250   200    99          98         93        26         2.0         99         51        19       8.00
CAN4ADA           72   22.1D 54 50 0         7 .1    1 ).'.     30    38    19       98       89         98        24         2.0         99         82        IT       9. 00
G- RMANY z.REP.72   61.00  5. 3 200          4 .2    1 4.2     ...   74.   26        99       91         99        33        ...          99         91       22      17.DOCY
JAPAN             71 1 59.33 33.6300         4. 3    '1). 7     39    38    12       99       990        99C        25C       2.0         99C        9 43      20C    29.000
NETHERLANDS    72   1 3.43, 4.330D           8.5    1).lG    32    45    19          99       95         95        29         3.0         97         73       20       1 1. 03
IrW Z-ALkND       73    2 .9   3.6 aD        5.2    . . .       39    24    29       99       99         99        26        ...          99         67        19      24. 00
NJ9IWAY           72    3 .9 0 4.660D        7 .0    1 5. 2    5B    23    13        99       99         RB        20         1.9         99         76        14      11 .300
SWEOENl            73    8.1   5.9 10        8. 9    1,.O       36    14    1 3      99       99         99         1T       ...          90         B5        10      30. 00
U.K.              72   5 5. 09  3.060D       6 .3    1'.?       26    39    22       98       99         ...       26         2.0         ...        63        17      11. 00
U.S.A.            72 210.43) 6.2000          6.0    1 5. 4      ..   7 3*   27       99       99         99        25U        2.0         . ..       93        190    2 9. 0
'3REECT           71    8 .90 1.870D         2.2    11I.1I      54Y7297    141    82A         957        ...        32Y      ...          70A        587      43Y    1 1.00
IRELA'J0          72    3. 00  2.1 500      5.1    103. 90    43Y  41Y  I14Y    98            97         998       35        ...          9 5A       75       19        r.00A
PJIArUGAL         72    9.00  1.4100 ...              ..                 .. 9(7                          ..        ..         .....                  65XY    I. 760Y
SPAIN             71   34.70  I.7100         2.49   15. 26A    49Y    2       5       4       9914 'A               36 .T                            294      30        6.004
AFRICA
A.OERTA           73   1 4.7      570        9.06     .        43    32    16        25A      67         86        43         6. 0        37         18x      26        3. 50
37NIN             73    2 .9      1 10       5. 3    3?.0      47    23    10        11       32X39      708       508       25.08        4 38        768     393       0. 44CY
33TSW4ANA         7 4    0.7      30)0       5.0    2 . 0      38    20    1 5       25       700        75        35         5.0         24         133      13        0. 30Y
133 JN36          74    3.5*       92.       2. 5*   1).90    479   419   12P    10-          201        30?       38        1 0. 0       14          23      18        1.0
CAAERg3N          7 3    6.2      2 50       5. 9    23 .0      387   29Y  177                74         '..       510Y    . ..           . ..        9       23CY    0. 9077
C.A.R.            7 0    1 .730   1600       4 .08   23 .0     56    19  .    .           . 64C Y        25        65CR    ...            18          5CR    2787    0. 07Y
CHAD              7 5    4 .03     80D       3.0    13.0       78    22       0      1 5      29X1)1    30         658Y    15              8          2287   30         3.013Y
2)81 ( 3)         7'4    1. 3     4 50       6.0    1?.3       40    32    2 1       50?    1 33X        63        63        6            48         33X      22        3.4X
E3YPT             74   36 .4      2 80       5. 3     .        29    36    2 4    40*         70(        45        40        ...          64         39X      28        III
ETHIO?IA          7 3   26 .5      90        3. 1    13. 0     42    29    1 8        7       171~   42            50         3. 0        63          2       30        D. 20
06338             7 3    0.5   I.31 0        5.0    23.6       25      9    1 1      ...    184(3Y    25C          46C        5.0         188A       20C      212       1.40CY
G 3A98            7 1    9 .3 0    3000      4 .7    ?4.4DR   383   1 5)   230    . ..        56X:Y    62          30CY    ...            14         113      1621    0.7'43Y
IV)RY COAST    72    5.83    3800            6.3    24.7       278 7  3397  137       98      52        57A        46        ...          ...        DO       25        1.26z~Y
KYENTA            73   12 .4      170        6. 4    ?7.0      63    11    Il1       40      1 05(       ...       40         8.0         14         12       23        1 .0337Y
LESOT43           75    1 . I     l1ON    12.DOP   2 3. 0      49    18    20        40       85         50        52         7.DON       81         10t      26        1. 0
L I    R ! A      7 4    1.40,   3100        2.7    11s. 9     25    1 3    22       ...      59          ..       39         1.8a        . ..       20       20        1.10AY
MADAGASCAR        7 4    9 .6     1500       3. 2    2 . 1     5 1    ?4    25       40       688        30        6 3       1 5. 0       48          9 1     26        1.008x
M4ALAWI           7 4    4 .83    1100D      3.1    23 .9..... ..                    25       561        60        50         7. 0        40          41      20        3. 26CY
NU4L              74    5. 33       700      4.6N    31 .3      36 8   523   129    10        IA         22         40       14. 0        37          4        17       0.16AY
MAJRITANIA        70    1 .23    2300D       4.5    21 .0......   .          . ..    10       15X        ...        22         ...        . ..        3        24            
MRLJRIT IUS       72    0. 83    4100        3.7    IL.?)    71    10         4      80       86         99         31        ....                   31        30       1.47CY
MORJCCJ           74.  15 .9      3 20       5.OC   16.5        44    47      9      26?      54X        21         37        ...         3 1        13X       21       2. 0
NIGERIA           71   7 1.23D    2100       3.2N   ..          406   244   200A      .       39X1C1    ...         34CR      ...         ..          4        20CY    0. 37CR
996WA836          7 3    3.9D       700      3.2C    I . 0 3..... ..                 23       52         ...        51 I       .           .          2        1 3      0.23CY
SENEGAL           7 1    4.00    2800        4.08   ? 2. 5 DP   398A  424    56    1 0        380        ...        46        ..           .          ix       25       1.71C7
SIERRA  LEONE   7 3    2. 7       1 60       3 .4    203. 4     3 1    3 6    3 0    15?      343        45         3 2       4.0E        68         138       21       3. 5387Y
SOIALIA           73    3.0         80       ...      r.0       57    16    13        5       13         91         35       15.0         45           3       la       1.0
5538N             7 2   1 7.013   1300       4. 5    13 .2      4 3    2 9    2 8    15       38         75         45        4.0         25         it       20        1.237
SWALILAN)         75    0.5       440        4.5    11.0        37    31    13       50       70         50         38        3.0         84         19       22        2.0
TANZANIA          74   i3.2C    1102         5.18   tr.0        36    ...   12       63       441        ...        49        ...          7          2       21C       3.3
7JNISIA           73    5.43    4600         4.3    25.4        37    43    18       55       72         81        41         6.0         31         14       21        3.0
3GA180A           70   10.83    1 503        5.2N   lr.6CR   400   226   250    25A           441C7    ...          36        ...         146         46CR   21         3. 5887Y
JPPE_R  VOLTA    72    5.73)        700      4 .0    2S.9       65    10      6       5       10         ...        45       1 8.0        20          2        23       0.D1AIY
74191             73   23.4       140        5.2CN ?1.3C    54C   17C   29C    15             63         38         44A       6.0         43          B        24       0.9697
7 A M6 1A         7 3    4 .6     4 30       5.6    1 i. 5      44    22    1 0      4 3      951        . ..       50        ...         20         158       20       3.448Y
:rENTRAL AMERICA  AND THE CARIBBEAN
:OSTA RICA       71    1.80    7100         5.2    27.7        57    25    12       89        9617      65         29         3.0         5 8       22CY    25        1 2.117I3C
JO0AINICAN  REP.72    4.43    5200           2.5    1 i. 53   4 2    24    2 2       5 1      80         17T        54         3.00       6 3        1 3       24       7.00
-- SALVAOR    7 5    3. 73    3500          3.6    2 3.8a      61      5    2 2     5881    71827       ...        39CY       ...         . ..      16XCY   21CR       4.3587
3LIATEMA1A        7 3    5.1      500        1.9    16i. 0     55    '3    1 4       4 7      64         26         35        3.0         6 9         8        25       4.097
6171I            72    4.43    1 300        0.9      6.436    61    11       8      208      22         25?        45        5. 0        50           3       23       1.03?
340DUR8S         72    2.73    3200         3. 9    26.53    66    1 3    1 8       52       six        to         37        6.0         75         14X       14       3. 00
I AMA I -A        7 2    1.93    9900        6.5Y    l) .7     33Y   227    77    86        1 06X(7      ...       52         ...         . ..       32X7     19        4.797
3EXICI            70   56.03    1900         2.6      9.3      54    24    12        76       71         31        46         3.0         63         19       23        6. 32C7
AICARAGUk         74    2.03    5400)        2.5    14.2       61    13    13        57       65         21         37        2.0         93         17       24        7.0
TRINIDAD & 7. 71    1.03  1.3100             S.1    113. 9     5 3    27    1 2      9 0      958        87         35        4.0         1 5        49        25       2.56AY
;OUTH AMERICA
3RAZIL            7 4 10 1.13a    760D       4 .3    11?.02     42    20      37    79        801        ...        27CY       ...        . ..       1538      15CR    6.008
>I1LE             72   10.23    7200         4.67   13.67      3401  1557  4007   ...    111637    ...             376        ..Y.                   48107I
D_LOM31A         70   22.50    4400         4.0    13.9        35    18    20       73       67         20         36         4.           0         IT       1        40
CJAD3R           72    6 . 73    3800       3.7    2 . ?C    4507  42)Y DOOY   69            72         ...       38         ...         ...        i8        14       4. 9T87
'JY7ANA           74    0 .7      4100       5.88   1 %.70Q    47'   35    1 4      838       926        39        3 3        6.0         0 9        621      24        1. 00
'ARAGUAY          74    2.4D    4100         1.8    1 '. 9     57    1 5    28       8 1      88         26        29         1. 9        6 5        15X      10        4.00
-RJ              7 1   14 .55    6 200      4.5    26 .13    50    22    iS5        72       80         38         3907       3. 0       70         30        2307   12.00
~ENEZIUELA        7 3   11.2   1.6 30        4 .6    19.9      305   2 80   356    77A        81         ...       33         2. 4        ...        33       ...    12.63CY



ANNEX 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION  IN31CATORS   CCJNTO)                                              Page 2-
(JULY 25.1976)
GNPSA/    0 GNP   :E TOTAL:O   OF PUBLIC                                            : PRI.  :AV.PRI.                            : SEC     
*   :CAPITA: OEVOTEO:-JILIC  : EDUCATION    :L ITER-    PRT.  : COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:-PROGRESS-S  SEC.  : STU- 
* SAT         TO EDO-:   zXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY              SENROLL:TION         SOENTS:SALARY  IN:.ION RATE  :ENROLL:DENTS:HIGHER.
*    M AR KETS  (PUBLIC:37VOTEBO:EXP  ALLOCATED'  RATE   I ATI) 3  RATE FOR:RER   :RCLATION :FROM PRI.:RATIO : PEN   :ENROLL!
POP.  SPR ICE S: EXP.          EQa           To,        :(% OF   'NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH!' rO GNP/ :TO SEC.   SNET   :TEACH- RATIO:
YRA0ODO)    ( USS): ONLY)   S    DUJ. :PRI. SEC. HI.SADULTS): (0)   :CYCLE(1):ER                       CAPITA                     CZ ()   :ER      (0)
(11   : ()   2     (3          (4)   5        5)5          (6      5  1         (B)        9)  S(10)             I IEIII 5(2    :13)  :141
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    '4    16.3s         902       .                39P   33P  I169    10         263        24         41        9.0         Ta.         ax      21       Ix
BANGLkDESH        7 3   7 4.0      80       1 .2    2).2          .     .          2 3      56X        ...        48        ...         ...        133      28       . 
C'I1NA(TAIWAN4) 73   1 5.4       660        1.3    14.0        8-  '41'   2? 2     82        98        94         40       1 4.0        84         59       26      1,. 0O
1401A             71 58 1.9 0    0200       2.6VY .. .           .      .          29        793       ...        43A        .     .    . .       28X       20A81    4.00O81
INDO)NESIA        7 3 12 4 .43    1 30D     1.8    11 .0      63      3    14      62       63         40         3?        5.0         9 1        1?       16       2.00
I R A             753  32 .1     870        3.3    1 '. 6     508   1889  128    50         77         74A        32        5. 08       80A        24       32       4.320Y
IRAQ              7 2   1 0.40    850D      6. 7    1,. 30R.       .     .         26       6121       ...       22          .          . ..      26XCY   26         6.28CY
JORIA4            7 3    2 .5     340       7.0      A. 8     5 2    1I 5    21    59        913       IA         38        5.00        8 4        503      22       4 .00
KOREA             7 3   32 .9    4 00       2. 9    11). 3    64    2 6      8     9?        97        90         53        3. 00       7 1        91       39       6. 00
LEBANON           72    2 .90    9 400      3.5    183. 0      39    40    1 0     68        86        65         19        2.00        6 3        76 3     25      2 -3.30
MALAYSIA          7 4   11.7     6 70       6. 4    2'.73    44    31    1 1       60C       960       90         32        4.00        8 3        440      27       3 .00
0919              7?    0.6D    8 400       2. 3        .8a   96      -    -       20        24X       99         3 3       7.00        . ..       3.4X      9
P'AK IST AN       7 5  66 .20    12 00      1.6      i.2      45    25    18a      21        47X       50         39        2.00        . ..       173      18       6.00
PAPJA N.G.        7 5    2. 6    4 10       5. 6    1,.1       38    16    2 4     3?        57        73X        3 1       11          3 3        123      24       0.93
PA4ILIPPINES    7 4  4 0.23)   2800         2.5    164. 9     7 3    15    1?2     87      104X        ...        34        15          ...        46X      ...    21. 00
S I NGAPORE       7?    2 .23 1a83 00       3.IN   I i. 2     44    31    1 5      158    1073x        72         3 3       ...         99         41       24         . 25Y
TfA1LANI          7 3   3 9.4    2 70       3.0N   1 3 .7     65      9    1 5     8?        873       93C        32        3. OOU      91C        213      24       2. 00
TUOXEY            72   37.90    6000        ...    13DO ..                       .         10 c3        .         340Y       .           .         2233    270Y    5 311Y
Y-4-N        ~73    6 .3     100        3.5      4.0      45P 2O    ?          1        153X       1         36         5.00o       ,5,        20       19       0.058Y
T  ENN P.).8.   7?    1.92    11 I00       2.38   1?.6        79    12             10       70x        31        29       10.00        99         423      20        0.08AY
$JM4ARY -OR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
4J4B,ER OF COIuNTRIES:                      70      40       65    65    62       64       74         46        73           44       47         74       71         To
IANGE:                                  (0 .5-   E3 .8    ( 25- (0-   (0-        5-      (10-      (17-       ( 19 -      11. 8-        7       .4 -    ( 9-     E.01-
9.0  1  1.31   9 6 ) 52 )   40)    9 8)         1843)    9 9 )       66      2  25. 0)    9 9)        75 .0)   43)       2 3.0)
QJARTILES:UPPER                          4. 7    31.0       57    36    20       68       90         76        45           7        76         26       26       4 .7 9
MEDIA4:                     4.0    18 .2       9 0    27    1 5     50       7 1        56        38           4        6 3        IA       23        2. 00
LOWER :                      3.0    14.0       42    17    11       20       48        25         33           3        25          8       19        3.53
SY43OLS:'... OATUM UNAVAILABLE                      A=1970 OR 3EFORE               M=CURRENT  VROCES                             SOURCES:
MAGNITUDE  NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1971                                  N=GDP
?  9JESTION49LE                         t 1 97'                         P=lNCLUDIV3 FOREIGN Al)                        COUNS:51 A ND 2 WORLD 68N3
INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS )=1973                                  Q=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                                ATLAS
COMBINED WITH PRIMARY              E-=1974                          R=MINTSTRY  OF EDUCATION  (MOE) ONLY                      3 TO 14 1880 MISSIONS
7=1975                         S=MOE AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                           AND/OR UNESCO
T=EXCLUDING CENTRAL  GOVT.                                          STATISTICAL
U=FUBLtC ONLY                                                       YE 4R800K
V=ISICLU01IN! PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X=14CLUDIN3 OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y=UNESCO S3URCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL iN rHE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES DP' EDUCATIONAL
OCYrLOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. H04WCVER,ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DAT4,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOIULD RE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CASJTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE 88080 TA8LE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGEfLY BY THE 8ANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES 08 DATA FROI UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
ACCJRACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCH 3%TA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING ro IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD N3E BORNE IN
MIND:
(l1'EDUCATION' AS DEFINED 1IN THE TABL7 INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION 853 TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL;
(?)'PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION1 AT THE SECOSODARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS Of TYPE EE.G. GEN-iAL, TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL) I
(3)'LITERACY RATESK(COL.6) ARE OFTEN )8TA!NED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND If IS
EflUBTFUL TRAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITIIN J3 'LITEPATE, HAS NEEN FOLLOW') CONSISTENTLY;
(4)'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION't10L5S.34 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOrED TO EDUCATION 91
PJBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(5)'rNROL-MENr RATIOS'(COLS 7, 12 AN) 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE IF ELIGIBLE CHILORE-N ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE AT LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WI0GE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWlNG TO) VARIATION OR4 SiB. ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. hGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENRDI.1.MENI FIGURES
FREQUENtLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUM3ER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS  WHOSE INCLUSION  IS INDICATED   BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO GGAN INFLATE THE RATI)S.



MALAYSIA
EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES
Table 1
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION'S CURRENT EXPENDITURE
BY EDUCATIONAL CATEGORY AND BY STATE, 1974 -/
(MW2OOs
Vocational    Teacher      Higher
Adminis-  Primary  Secondary  and Technical  Training   Education    Miscel- Unallo-
State               tration   Schools  Education      Schools     Colleges  Institutions  laneous   cated    Total
Central Adminis-
tration            29,k58                                                                                     29,458
Johore                1,135    63,760    35,084        1,083        3,555          -        4,476       -      109,093
Kedah                   797    42,426    24,246          589          157          -        3,479       -       71,694
Kelantan                576    27,980    17,785          282          893          -        2,388       -       49,904
Malacca                 550    20,142    14,017          475        1,226          -           699      -       37,109
Negri Sembilan          638    24,716    19,579        1,262           851         -        1,322       -       48,368
Pahang                  975    23,639    16,090        1,739          114          -        1,811       -       44,368
Penang                  762    31,977    26,183        1,338        2,748       18,070      2,126       -       83,204
Perak                 1,729    69,193    46,800          752         2,841       1,737      1,721       -      124,773
Perlis                  154     5,881      4,142         324            25         -           517      _       11,843
Selangor              1,310    66,869    51,662        1,081        7,544       96,520      3,111       _      228,097
Trengganu               534    18,135      9,379         132           459         -        1,683       -       30,322
Unallocated             -          -       1,866         -             141         -            11   36,948     38,966
Peninsula            38,618   394,718   266,833        9,057        20,554     116,327      23,344   36,948    906,399
Sabah                 8,572    25,818    20,606        1,289         4,157         -           406      -       60,848
Sarawak               3,763    32,969    18,483          541         2,093         -           -        -       57,849
E. Malaysia          12,335    58,787    39,089        1,830         6,250          -          406      -      118,697
TOTAL                50,953   453,505   305,922       10,887        26,804     116,327      23,750   36,948  1,025,096
1/  Peninsula figures are preliminary estimates of actual expenditures in 1974 from computer print-out dated
June 5, 1975.                                                                                                       O d
Source:  Peninsula figures from Ministry of Education, Finance and Accounts Division; Sabah and Sarawak figures         H
from Estimates of Federal Revenue and Expenditure for the Year 1975.



MALAYSIA
EDUCATIONAL EXPENDITURES
Table 2
DEVEL0qMENT EXPEN4DITURES ON EDUCATION
Millions M$
Second Malaysia Flar             Third Malaysia Plan 1976-80
1971 - 1975 1    Continuation of         NEW
Abs.               Second Plan Projects  Projects        Total      %
Primary Education                       118       21.1              70               313           383      22.3
Peninsula                           90                        7                 T3            239
Sabah                               17                        12                 66            78
Sarawak                             11                          2                64            66
Secondary Education                     198       35.5             188               273           461      26.8
Peninsula                          13                                           313           2
Sabah                               25                        75                 30           105
Sarawak                             38                        61                 30            91
Technical/Vocational Education           53        9.5              30                39            69       4.0
Peninsula                           42                        11                27             35
Sabah                                7                        17                  -            17
Sarawak                              4                          2                15            17
Teacher Training                          9        1.6              39                57            96       5.6
Peninsula                          n.a.                       37                 7
Sabah                              n.a.                        1                  2             3
Sarawak                            n.a.                         -                11            11
Higher Education                        112       20.1             432               236           668      38.8
Peninsula                          112                       432                2636          76
Sabah                                -                          -                   
Sarawak                              -                          -                 -             -
Miscellaneous                            68       12.1              29                15            44       2.5
Peninsula                          n.a.                      n.a.               n.a.          n.a.
Sabah                              n.a.                      n.a.               n.a.          n.a.
Sarawak                            n..a.                     n.a.               n.a.          n.a.
Total                                   558     100.0              788               933         1,721    100.0
Sources:  Second Plan figures from the Mid-Term Review of Second Malaysia Plan 1971-75.  Third Plan figures
from the Economic Planning Unit in Kuala Lumpur.
1/ Revised allocations 1971-75.



MALAYSIA
EIXDCATIONAL EXPENDITURES
Table 3
DEVELOnMENT EXPENDITURES ON PRIMARY EDUCATION BY STATES
Thousands M'
Second Malaysia Plan 1971-75          Third Malaysia Plan 1976-80 Y
Continuation      New Projects                  Average
of Second                  Teacher              Annual
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975  Plan Projects  Classrooms  Quarters   Total   Expenditure
Johore               3,175   3,562   2,136   2,058   n.a.      4,131        17,000     1,000      22,131    4,426
Kedah               2,237   1,568   2,338   2,565   n.a.       5,656        27,400       700     33,756    6,751
Kelantan            1,136     895      704   1,512   n.a.      7,399        22,100       500     29,999    6,000
Malacca                410   1,084     821   1,172   n.a.      3,291        10,500         -      13,791    2,758
Negri Sembilan         575   1,048     863   2,572   n.a.      3,504        10,500        -      14,004    2,801
Pahang              1,123   1,692   2,257   2,554   n.a.       5,791        25,300     2,000      33,091    6,618
Penang                 568     574     556     498   n.a.      2,605         5,500         -       8,105    1,621
Perak                  580     658   1,855   2,359   n.a.      7,133        20,300     1,000      28,433    5,687
Perlis                 387     435     456     779  n.a.         905         2$300         -       3,205      641
Selangor             1,372   1,596   1,808   1,594  n.a.       9,221        21,000         -      30,221    6,044
Trengganu              708     720   1,050   1,672   n.a.      6,104        14,100     1,300      21,504    4,301
Total Peninsula   12,271  13,832  14,844 19,335   n.a.      553740       176,ooo     6,500    238,240   47,648
Sabah                1,658   3,061   1,762   2,940   2,2002/ 11,767         66,400        3/      78,167   15,633
Sarawak              n.a.    n.a.      600   2,200   1,7002/  1,595         63,700       3        65,295   13,059
Total Malaysia    13,929  16,893  17,206  24,475   -        69,102       306,100      6,500    381,702   76,340
1/ Estimates of December 1975 which are to be revised as the Plan is finalized.
2/ Mission estimates.
/ Included under "Classrooms".
Sources: Second Malaysia Plan figures for Peninsular Malaysia from the Finance and Accounting MLvision, and for
Sabah and Sarawak from the Public Works Department. Third Plan figures from the Economic Planning Unit
in Kuala Lumwur.
May 1976                                                                                                              C
%Ji)



SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND EDUCATION INDICATORS BY STATE
Percentage   Percentage                     Percentage     MOE Current
Primary        Primary      of Total    of Primary                    of Secondary    Expenditure
GDP per  Percentage  Percentage                            Primary           School         School      Primary        School      Secondary         School         (M$) per
Capita    of Rural    of Total    Infant    Literacy  Education           Enrollment    Enrollment  Schools in    Teachers         Education       Teachers          Capita
(1970)   Households  Households  Mortality    Rate    Enrollment         per Classroom  per School  Converted    Untrained         Enrollment    Untrained              (excl.
State        M$      in PovertY /in Povertya/ Rate _/    (1970)   Ratio c/                                        Facilities                   Ratio c/                       higher ed.)
Johore             840          38           33       n.a.         63          91              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.           14             51              9              81
dl           d/            d/
Kedah/Perlis       600          54           50         42          57         84               57           337            32             9             46             12              68
Kelantan           420          69           65         48         45          85               54           344            34            17             56             26              66
Malacca            760          36           32         38         65          85              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.            9             54             10              83
Negri Sembilan    910           36           32         36         68          88              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.           14             59             13              92
Pahang             850          36           31         41         61          89               56           248            39            18             52              9              76
Penang             940          39           30         34         60          87              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.            9             57              5              76
Perak              910          42           34         39         62          89               65           354            38             12            53              6              72
Sabah            1,140         n.a.         n.a.      n.a.         44          76              n.a.          161           n.a.          n.a.            51            n.a.             81
Sarawak            900         n.a.         n.a.      n.a.         38          83              n.a.          139           n.a.          n.a.            39            n.a.             53
Selangor         1,520          27           19         30         67           86             n.a.          n.a.          n.a.            17            57             11              70
Trengganu          540          60           55         54          49         86               62           285             36             7            46              12             67
National                       e/           e/         e/
Average        920          45           37        39          58          88              n.a.          291           n.a.           13-/           52             lc-/            73
a/ Households with per capita income below M$ 25/month (1970).                             Source: GDP per capita for Peninsular Malaysia from Regional Development Strategy (EPU,
b/ Number of deaths among children of 0-1 years per 1,000 live births (1971).                       Kuala Lumpur, November 1974) and for Sabah and Sarawak from Mid-Term Review of
c/ Excluding overage and underage students. Primary school grades 1-6,                              Second Malaysia Plan (Kuala Lumpur, 1973).  Literacy rate from Department of
secondary school grades 7-11.                                                                 Statistics, Kuala Lumpur.  Percentage of rural households in poverty and infant
d/ Kedah only.                                                                                      mortality rate from Problems of Rural Poverty in Malaysia, FAO/IBRD Cooperative
eI Excluding Sabah and Sarawak.                                                                     Study, IBRD Report No.838-MA, February 1975.  Other information from Ministry
of Education, Kuala Lumpur. E
Note: All data for 1974 unless otherwise indicated.
May 1976



MALAYSIA FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Planned Enrollment and Estimated Requirements and Supply of
Instructors in Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs)
1976-80
A. Estimated Requirements of ITI Instructors
Planned          No. of Instructors         Present
Name of ITI                                  Enrollment              Requ ired              Stock         Deficit
Kuala Lumpur                                   1,290                  118                     56             62
Prai                                             620                   61                     21             40
Kuala Trengganu                                  330                   31                      0             31
Johor Bahru                                      390                   38                      0             38
Sub-total for Peninsular Malaysia            2,630                  248                     77            171
Kota Kinabalu (East Malaysia)                    300                   26                      0             26
TOTAL                                        2,930                  274                     77            197
B. Phased Recruitment of ITI Instructors
Remaining trained
Planned Total               No. of                  Output from        Intake of Trained Instructor    Instructors to be
Year   Enrollment in ITIs   Instructors in ITIsi/   Instructors Course.'                    by ITIs               employed by Industry3/
1976          900              77 (Present Stock)                 60                        20                              40
1977         1,100            I97 (77 + 20)                      120                        80                              40
1978         1,400            176 (97 + 80 approx.)              120                        50                              70
1979         1,900            225 (176 + 50 approx.)             120                        50                              70
1980         2,900. 1         2745/(225+50 approx.)
1/ All qualified by both Apprentices Certificate of Proficiency and Certificate of Instructors course.
The Apprentices Certificate of Proficiency will gradually be substituted by Certificates of Trade Tests.
2/ The Instructors course is offered at Kuala Lumpur ITI only.   Planned enrollment from 1977 onwards is 120;  estimated
output is nearly 120 per annum.
3/ For on-the-job training within industry.
4/ Rounded
5/ Attrition is assumed to be insignificant since the average age of instructors is about 30 years.
August 1976



C-teDr      Malaysia  - -EtoJect    Fourth Education                                                                                                                                        INOIDAT Ed-t,i-S OO-J-t-
Ocros'APProi-el Form IT-A
S UN MA RY   O F  EST 0NT MAT      P ROJ EC T   COO ST
(&pp-ui-1 Rapo-t A.... N.. _)
E 0 T T M A T E D C 0 S T S  T N  '0 0 0  0 F jjaiaysian $    (i 9 7 6   P  I o E 5)     ___         ___                      S T.  TO0T AL  COS T S
t           PR~~OJEmCr             Sire                     BUI______  OLDINGS                       FURNNITIRE  E____                QUTFIPMNT              TOTAL       PROFESSIONAL    T CHOS 0               in  WOU
-IT lP.   Ac-dei,,                Nroaff                AcAmc                             cdmc                             1T7'T         ORCO- SOL                ofc
~~  No.  0005            mOst ~~~~~~~~ Adoi.. &  Noo-diog    -tocin   Tocal      Ad,in. &    B-oding    Tot.1    Adoi, &   Noadi.g    Total    0F01CIL0ITIESdSpe   ASSIST-                 0       j059 
a                                   Coemonci                                      Coooe,,1                         Cooeecoai                      Ooc.Orof.Foec ACc-.vision  OT 
Education_(MOE)I
A.PrmrScol
States
6AIOI   Kedah                       4,800      15,040        -          960      16,000      1,920        -        1,920  -560            -          560      23,280        -       400'            23,680         9 ,180 
81A10      Kelantanm                4,410 1 14,690                       -       14,690      1,670        -        1,670       540       -          540       2 1, 310      -       360             21,670         8,400
AIO~  Pahang                     5,140      17 ,1 20       -                  17 , 120    1,940         -       1,940       640        -          640       24,840                400             25,240        9,780
A10O    Perak                    4,510      15,290         -           -      15,290      1,730         -       1,730       540        -          540       22,070       -        380             22,450        8,700
AIO'   Trengganu                 2,660       8,310         -          550      8,860      1,250         -       1,250       350        -          350       13 ,120      -        230             13,350        5,170
AIO(    Sabah                    6,930      21,270         -       6,460      27,730      2,500         -       2,500       930        -          930       38,090    2,100       500            40,690        15,770
AlO_   Sarawoak                  6 i10     20,68~0    1,770       5,1        27,660      2,300       180                   950       80     I               7,98        -        500             38,480       1491
2 /
Sub-T3tl             26      4lj0,0       1,770    13,180    12,5          13,510       180     13 490   4 SiO         80        4~9        180,690    2,100   2         ___ 1877002J~ 
B. Teacher Tann
College
810     Sarawak/Miri             1,090       1, 74~0    1,660        960       4  6         250       190         440       600       70          670        6,56       680  -7,240                             281_0
C. Education Resource
Centers
dio     Kedah/Alor Star             130'        320        220         -         540          35       25          60       220      50           270        1,000       80        -               1,080           420
dO  Kelantan/'Kota Bahru       130         320        220         -          540         3          56                   2        020                    100         8                          ,8             2
diO     Pahang/Kuantan             140          320        220         -         540          3 5      2 5         60       220       50          270        1,010       60        -100                            420
CIO,   Trengganuu/
K. Trengganu             14          320        220         -          540         35        2 5         60      220       50          270        1,I         80                       11 -    .1a9920  420
Sub-Total        E5_40         ia        -  880         -        2,360        140       100         240       880     200        1,p80    4- 02           320                        4,340        1,8
Total Project I(MOE)
excluding contin-
gencies in M$            36,890    115,420       4 310    14,140    133.00                     470     14,170   5,990        350       .634    1.~91  70.  3.100  2,770           __    197,140         76,400-
and Manpower MNOLI4)
D . New Industrial
Iraining Institutel
aD01     Johore/Johore Bahru         560      1,320         670        270      2,260         140      100          240    1,790       50        1,840        4,900      350                        5,250         2,030
D10     Trengganu/K. Treng.         480      1,080         560        270      1,910         120       80         200   1,450         50        1,500        4,090      300                        4,9          1,700
D10    Sabah/K. Kinabalu           72                      00       40      -               10        50         310    1,190        50       1,24          5.10       40-560,C~
t    E. Extension OfI
C'ElO    Kuala Lumpur                470       1,220        660         -       1,880         110        70         180   4,300        50        4,350        6,880      290                        7,170         2,780
c-ElO    PenanL/Prai                 220         370        520         -          690         40        60         100    114         30        1,170   1       380     10__                       2,520           980
Total I  (14014                50A~    5,1P.   3,1           10I         9fi840        570      460       1,3       9,870 -230          !10,0         23,420   11___0                       24 950   ~ 9  7O
Agriculture (M A)
F. Community Cante(            50         220-        -          -          220         20       -            20       90       -            90 ~         380   2L0                             400          160 ,
1/  includes funds to employ key staff on contract basis (Annex 7).                     0 -   qi11    S10    $.8s-                                                                                    f~ "'
2~/  Includes funds for vehicles/boats for MOE planning staff.



Co_otry .    M  alaysia_       _      ProirOt            Fourth                                                                                                                                                                  A-hOS/t.' Apop-i-I Projects
p  S UM MA RY   S F   E ST XM A T E D I R J E  CT   COS T                                                                                                                                                                                     ApoetPe
(ApotRePort Ase  No.
Sc.                    N                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E S T T M A T 0 D   C 0 S  s   I N   '0 0 o   N P  Malaysian  $  (I 9 76   P N T C E S)                                         E S  .   T 0 T A L   C 0 S T S
55Sie                                             ________                                 ________                     PN'OS  ______   ___T___EQUIPOECt   _____                           TOTAL         PROFNOOTONAL    TECi-         to000t   000
I 550.  00050                 NOVOSO~~D.-IP-   Acodootc    T            tCPf                     A-odeet,                              A. eoi.P   "SCAL                                           OEROCCCO       NICAL          of              of 
5  ~~                                   Ad,stO. &      Noordtro      Heosiog      Coco~~Z'  Tt1  Adieto  &    So-di.g      Tors1      Ad.-te. I&    B-odiog      Tote1        FACILITIES      oot              ASSIST-       ____       I     us$O
o ~    Technical Assistance                        ooo-j                                                                         _____         omseN       ____-                    (NePrPe    Ac.}AC
T. MOE                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ------ I  0                     a
88Specialists  (1/my)                                                                  ______I ____150)
Felloywships  (28/my)                                                                                                                               -----870                                                                     870
II.     __  _   _  __   _  __    _   _         _  _   _      _  _  _                 __   _  _     _  _  __                 -   --  .    __   _  _-                                                                                --ii        __   _  _
Specialists  (19/mY)                                                            _____                       -.---.                   -.                                                        __J___2,700                    2,700
Fellowships  (30/my)                                              --.-___                                                       -.________              ____                    --                                930            930
III. MOA  ..                     __            ____i1! j                                                                  ___   __                     _______ _____
Feasibility Study___                  ___-_]S                                                                                 -                                                                                 700           700             270-
Toa   T                            = . .--.-A-.-------                                                                                                .         .-5,350                                                   5,350           2,080
TTLBASE OOST'j  'M$    .ooo L39,390   121,150                  7,620        l5 160 I  143, 930    14  290  1           930      15  220  I15,950              580      16,530    215,070    4,5              2, 7-7-0 5,350        27,4
-      E-I.df.g         u s$     '000  15,27C    46,960            2,95          5,8  0 1   55,780          5,54           30        590           610            230       6,410        83  360       1,0    j,070   2,080                             88,310
~Contoosocr0)  Pr.Ooo.   7    _____           _____                              _ _   25__ __                         j ____2__                                    90                        157.      15%        90%      _   _ _ _ _     _____
I COorrisoNOcItS  C Bose coe    5 2%                                            _ ___                                                                         f37.7/.            4 2.07       32.7%~ 32.77.  15.6%
M_____        20_740                                            _____                                        ,        __                           6,240        90',370      1500         900       830       93,600r
UO       50 8   4         ____                                   ____ 22,680                                                                       2,_420       35  030         580 1   350          3036,280
Poreoh  ~     5%                    ______                  ___ 2% -                                     17                                      0                          15%  I     _      90%
_____  __    _                   _____                               --- -                                              1---                              __   _____  _____~~~~~~~~'~ ~1 --11 
TOTAL PROJcCr COST      M___    SOS  60, 13                                                 20,40                                                                               7      35.4           6,150j 3,670   6,1180           321,440
( tttetI-e)   UNS$      000  23 11=                                                  7840  I7,790                                                                  8 830       118, T390     2 380  11,420   2,400                 ---       124,590
TTL POE. RE...       % Tot.S Cost      15%                                                                                                                           [-     0            72          07% 1.%             9%-  
COMPONENT   ~~~ss     ,ooo      5O0                                                    61                   1.560~                                      -       7,940         33,500          240       150   2, 160                         35,160
August  1976                                                                A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c-....cy Eqoi-I-teo     OS$E 00 = M  2.58                                                   Thest  2   f  Z_    ec



C ... rty    Malaysia         Ed-otien ProJect     Fourth                                                                                                                                               IBRD/IDA Ed-rat-o ProJe-t.
P ROJ E CT   CO0S T   CO0NTI N OE NC Y   A L LOW A NCE S
(A p prai          R Rport   Annex.   So.)
(Oceae  i's000 or US DoA11-)
0                       ~~~~~~~~~SITS DEVRLOSHIN  BUILDINGS             FURNfITURE           EQUIPMENT                   PROFESSIONAL ASERICES                         TECHNICAL ASSISTANCETOA
ARCS. CONSULTANTS   '-j3p,j ijsr        E~ XPAT. SPECIALISTS       STAFF DEVELOPMEONTO-
L.ca I relg  Total  Loa  Fr- n  oal tn FForeigTTotal LoaIPorign~ Total  Loc-I Po-igo   oo   ocjPr ToTotl   Lrolo-egoToto1  Loc1 1ar-ISo  Totl1  LorI For-iOs  Toroi
B.or Coot SEtinote (6/1976)
Loco.  Forigo 50-kd-50    12980  2290  57    14    34   55780  4720  1180  5900  640    5770  641  1620                   10      80     96      10     17      10     12030            70    630    700  62970 25340 88310
%  ..1&Foi              Tt] 85         15    100     75      25    100      80     20      10      0     90      10    9        10    100     90      10     100    10      90    10       1       90    100    71.0  29.0   100
Phyoiool Conting ...y
. of Soon Cost            19.4  19.4  19.4    10         10      10     10     10      10     10      10     10    10       10    10       10     10      10      -       -     -        -       -     -     1.       011.
~~~' ~~~~~ ~2510    450  2960  4190   13901 55801 470    120   590                         7      58     650    160      20    180    100      10    110        -      -     -        -       -     -     7500  2570 10070
A   Cooritng     Phy i-     15490  2740 12046030 15330 61360  5190  1300  6490  710   6350  7060 1780    200  1980  1060    120    1180   140                             120 38           70    60      00     04    290930
Eop-ctod Pr-o I-rro-n
S    + Phyolc-l footing    79 2.7 2.         79    79 2.           20      20     20     25      25     25    20       20    20       20     20      20      15     15      15     15      15     15    30. 2  28.6 29.8
OF A ...t                     4320    760  5080 12820  4280 17100  1040  260  1300    180    1590  1770  360                   40   400    210        30    240      20    190    210      10    100    110  18960  7250 26210
00Total C..tIgOCy AlloOOs0-
Ano-t                     6830   1210  8040 17010, 5670 2268010    380  1890, 250-  2170 -2420  520                         60   580    310       40    350      20    190    210       10    100    110  26460   9820 36280
1LooInO  T-rotO  of bOLnE  85.0   15.0    100    50 2.          100  80.0  20.0    100  10.3  89.7    100  89.7  10.3  100  88.6    11.4  100    9.5  90.5    100    10.    90.0  100    73.0   27.0    100
-  Total Sot. Proj-ct Co,ttO  180 30   23310 58850 19610 78460  6230  1560  7790  890    7940  8830  2140  240  2380  1270    150  1420    160   1430 19                                     80    70       10    94    356 250
..raI A PrF-ig of Tota  85.0   15.0    100  75.0   25.0    100  80.0  -20.0    100  10.0  90.0    100l 90.0   10.0   100  89.4    10.6   100    10.0  90.0    100  19.7  80. 3    100    71.8  28.2    100
August 1976                                                                                                                                                                       01000  otaff t-ifoing
i-clodino ...r....
eFo11ehip p-ogr-m.



ANNEX 7
MALAYSIA PROPOSED FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF REQU:[REMEiTS FOR flPLEME1N,TATIOY
I.  Ministry of Education (MOE)
.                      __   _1977_ _   197r   1979    1967191
A. Project Management                          -F
Kuala Lumpur
Project Director 1/               1  0           .                 _
Project Architect                 lal     _  _
Officers                          2 (2)   1 (1)
MOA  Sub-project Chief 2/         1    ,O;f                         _
States_ J _                                    _  I  _       _   _        _
State Project Coordinator 3/   7 (0)                               ----- --
Regional Project Coord.
Sabah 4/                        5b(            I _                  7
Sarawak 5/                     7b   1)         |
Sub-Total              24 (3)  25 (i25                     25 =
B. Project Execution
1 .MOE
State Assistant Develop-
ment Officer                    7c(7)   7         _7)
Assistant for Development
to the:
Resident Officer (Sabah)       50 (5)                      _
Division Officer (Sarawak)   7C(7)                                _ _            ;
Sub-Total            :19(19)  26 T7)   26 (O   26 (0)  26t5 (O            0(
2.Public Works Dspartments 7/
Peninsular Xalaysis
Architects                        2*(2_ _
Senior Ergineers                  5*_5__
Engineers                         2* _2T
Technicians                       2*{2 _17        _ _
Sabah
Architects                        l*fl,
Engineers/Supt. of Works          1*
Supt. of Works                    - _6_
Technicians                    a_- 5                _              __      .
Sarawak                         l
Architects                     j l*(l)
Engineers/Supt. of Works          1* - 1
Supt. of Works                    -     | 5  (5)  !         _---_
Technicians                       _        5=;
Sub-Total            J1 15(5    5(3      5L      _ 50 (o)l 50 (0 o)    _
Total   Staff               __   _   _   _    __   _(                     26C )
MOE AND PWD              1 58(37) o5 (45 )       |   ioi (    101  (O Ol   261  MI
II. Ministry of Labor and Manpower
A. Project Management (PIU)         l       I                                   I
Project Director 7/               1 (|)
Assistant to P.D. 7/              10
Project Arrh. or Eng.          f
Procuremert Officer               1  l                    l_|_)f_
Total MIlM                                    (_                _ _ 4 (O)_I
Total Staff                 62(39) 109(45)  109 (o) 105 (0) 105 (0)  26 (O)
a.  Indicates staff whose aprointment is a condition of disbursement for the MOE
project component.
b.  Indicates staff whose designation is a condition of disbursement for the Primary
school component in the respective state.
c.  Indicates a position the creation of which is a condition of disbursement for
the rrimary school comronent in the resnective state.
d.  Indicates staff whose appointment is a condition of disbursement for the MOLM
project component.
L/ Project director to be reaffirmed.
2/ A professional of the Cosnnunity Development Division of the MOA would be
designated chief for the MOA sub-project.
3/ The development officer of each project state is to be designated project
coordinator for the state.
4/  The five Resident Education Officers are to be designated project directors
for their Residency.
5/  The seven Division Education Officers are to be designated oroject directors
for their Division.
6/  Funds are provided in the project for PWD staff who can not be employed under
regular civil service procedures.
7/  The Director General of the Manpower Department of the MOIM has been designated as
Project Director, and his assistant has been designated as Assistant to the
Project Director.
*  Indicates      staff for first year implementation.
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate the number of new personnel to be hired
(or transferred) to the adjacent rositions in the indicated year.
August 1976



ANNEX 8
MALAYSIA FOURTH EDUJCATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF DISBURSEMENT
1/
Implemen-                Misbursement                      Undisbursed
tation         Semesterly           Cumulative             Balances
Semester                           '000 US$              ' '000 US$    %
1                                                     35,000     100.0
2             200      o.6         200      o.6       34,800      99.4
3             800      2.3       1,000      2.9       3h,000      97.1
4           3,000      8.6       4,000     11.5       31,000      88.5
5           5,000    1h.3        9,000     25.8       26,000      7h.2
6           5,000     14.3       lh,000    0.1       21,000      59.9
7           6,000     17.1      20,000     57.2      15,000       2.8
8           6,ooo     17.1      26,000     7h.3        9,000      25.7
9           7,000     20.0      33,000     94.3        2,000       5.7
10           2,000      5.7      35,000    100.0            0         0
1/ From estimated date of Loan/Credit effectiveness.
August 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
MALAYSIA FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE)
1976                        _
Responsible                               1/            1977
Main Activities                          Authorities           J F M A M J J A S 0 N D J F M A M J J A - O N D
A. Project Management
1. Appointment of Project Director                 GOM/MOE                    X X X
2. Appointment of Project Unit Staff 2/            GOM/MOE                          X X X X X X X
3. Appointment of Additional Staff 2/              MOE/SED                      X XX X XX X X X X X X X X
4. Appointment of State Project Coordinators 2/ MOE/SED                     X X X X
5. Appointment of Division Project Coordinator   SED/SPWD                   X X X X X X
(Sabah and Sarawak)
6. Development of Five Year  Staffing Plan         MOE/SED/PWD/SPWD         X X X X
7. Establishment of State Planning and
Development Committees 3/                     MOE/SED                  X X X X
8. Preparation of Standard Forms
a) Educational                                 PIU/SED                  X X X X
b) Construction                                PIU/SED/SPWD             X X X X
9. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                   X X X
10. Completion of Forms for First Year              PIU/Bank                   X X X X
11. Completion of Forms for Second Year             PIU/Bank                         X  X X X X X K
B. Project Execution
12. Appointment of State Assistant
Development Officers 2/                       GOM/SED                  X X X X X  X X X X X X X K
13. Appointment of Assistant to Resident
Officers 2/                                   GOM/SED                  X X X  X X  X X   X X X X X
14. Appointment of Project Architects,
Engineers and Supt. of Works                  GOM/PWD                  X X X X X  X X X X X K
15. Appointment of Technicians 2/                   GOM/PWD                      X X X  X X X X X X X X X X X X
C. Civil Works
16. Preparation of First Year Construction
Program                                       PIU/SED                  X KX X X
17. Acquisition of Site for First Year
Construction                                  PIU/SED/PWD              X X X X X  X X X X K
18. Preparation of Standard Designs                 PIU/PWD/SPWD             X X X X X  X K
19. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                   X X  X  X  X K
20. Preparation of Tender Documents                 PIU/PWD/SPWD               X X X X  X X K
21. Submission for  Bank Review                     PIU/Bank                         X  X X K
22. Invitation for Bid                              PIU/PWD/SPWD                       X X K X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
23. Bid Period and Evaluation                       PIU/PWD/SPWD/                           X  X X X X X X X X X X X X X K
CONTRACTOR
24. Contract Awards                                 PIU/PWD/SPWD                                X X X X X X X X X X X X X
25. Construction Period                             PIU/PWD/Contractor                              X X X  X X X X X X X K
26. Preparation of Second Year Construction
Program                                       PIU/SED                                  X XK X X XX
D. Furniture and Equipment
27. Preparation of Master Lists                     PIU/SED                      X X X X X X X X
28. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                              X X X  X X X
29. Preparation of Tender Documents                 PIU/SED                                 X X  X X X  X X K K
30. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                                      X X XX X X X X
31. Invitation for Bids                             PIU                                              X X  X X X X   X X
32. Bid Period and Evaluation                       PIU/Contractor                                     X  X X X X X XK
33. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                                             X X X X X X X
34. Contract Awards                                 PIU/SED                                                    XX X XX X
35. Procurement                                     PIU/SED/Manufacturer                                             X XX
E. Technical Training & Specialist Services
36. Preparation of Terms of Reference for
Expert Services and Submission for
Bank Review                                   PIU/Bank                       X X X X X
37. Recruitment of Experts                          pIU                                 X X X X X X
38. Selection of Experts                            PIU                                     X X X X X
39. Appointment of Experts                          PIU                                         XX X X
40. Experts Services Period                         PIU/Experts                                    X X X X  X X X X X X X X
GOM - Government of Malaysia
I/ Assumed effective date - November    1976                  MOE - Ministry of Education
2/ See Annex 7.                                               PIU - Project Implementation Unit (MOE)
3/ See Appendix 4.                                            SED - State Education Department
PWD - Federal Public Works Department
SPWD- State Public Works Department



ANNEX 9
Page 2
MALAYSIA FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MINISTRY OF LABOR AND MANPOWER (MOLM)
1976
Responsible                               1/            1977   _ =
Main Activities                           Authorities          J F M A M J J A S O N_DIJ F M A M -  J A S 0 N D
A. Project Management
1. Establishment of PIU and Appointment
of Project Director                           MOLM/Bank                  X X X
2. Appointment of Assistant Project Director 2/ MOLM/Bank                       X X X
3. Appointment of Project Engineer or
Architect 2/                                  MOLM                         X X X X X
4. Appointment of Procurement Officer and
Supporting Staff                              MOLM                           X X X X
B. Civil Works
5. Selection of Consultant Architects              MOLM/PIU                   X X X
6. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                     X X X X
7. Briefing of Consultant Architects               PIU/Bank                     X X  X X X X X K
8. Appointment of Consultant Architects            PIU                               X X X X
9. Site Acquisitions and Surveys                   PIU/PWD                           X X X X X X X
10. Preparation of Site Layouts and
Sketch Plans                                  PIU/Cons.Arch.                        X X X X X X X X X
11. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                                           X X X X X X
12. Preparation of Tender Documents                 PIU/Cons,Arch.                                     XX  X  X X X X
13. Submission of Tender Documents for
Bank Review                                   PIU/Bank                                                   X X XX
14. Invitation for Bids                             PIU/Cons.Arch.                                               X X X X
15. Bid Period and Evaluation                       PIU/Contractor                                                 X  X X X
16. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                                                            X X
17. Awarding                                        PIU/Bank                                                              X
18. Construction Period                             PIU/Contractor
C. Furniture and Equipment
19. Preparation of Master Lists                     PIU/ITI                                 X X X X X X X
20. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                                      X XX X X X X
21. Preparation of Tender Documents                 PIU/ITI                                            X X X X X X X
22. Submission for Bank Review                      PIU/Bank                                                 XXX   X XX
23. Invitation for Bids                             PIU                                                          X X  XX
24. Bid Period and Evaluation                       PIU/Contractor/
Bank                                                           KKX X
25. Submission of Bid Analysis for Bank Review    PIU/Bank                                                                X
26. Bank Approval & Contract Award                  PIU/Bank
27. Procurement                                     PIU/Manufacturer
D. Technical Training & Specialist Services
28. Preparation of Terms of Reference for
Expert Services and Submission for
Bank Review                                   PIU/Bank                         X X X X X X
29. Recruitment of Experts                          PIU                                   X X  X KX X
30. Selection of Expsrts                            PIU                                       X X X X X
31. Appointment of Experts                          PIU                                           X X X X
32. Experts Services Period                         PIU/Experts                                        X  X X X X  X X X X X
33. Preparation of Selection Criteria for
Fellowships and Bank Review                   PIU/Bank                                X X X X
34. Selection of Candidates for Fellowships         PIU                                              X X  X X X X X
35. Fellowships Training Period                     PIU/Fellows                                                    X X X X
MOLM - Ministry of Labor and Manpower
1/ Assumed effective date - November    1976.                 PIU  - MOLM Project Implementation Unit
2/ See Annex 7.                                               ITI  - Industrial Training Institute



ANNEX 9
Page 3
MALAYSIA FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE, RESOURCE CENTER AND COMMUNITY SERVICE CENTERS
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) AND MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (MOA)
1976       '
Responsible                                1/            1977
Main Activities                            Authorities           J F M A M J-J A S O N D J F M A M   J A S O N D
A. Project Management (See Annex 7
B. Civil Works (for TTC and RC)
1. Selection of Consultant Architects               MOE/SED/E'IU                X X X X X X
2. Submission for Bank Review                       PIU/Bank                           X X K X
3. Appointment of Consultant Architects             SED/PIU                          X X X X X
4. Briefing of Consultant Architects                PIU/Bank                           X X X X
5. Selection and Acquisition of Sites               SED/PIU                            X X X X X X X X X
6. Survey of Sites                                  PIU/Cons.Arch.                                  X K X X  K X
7. Preparation of Site Layouts and
Sketch Plans                                   Cons. Architects                           X X X X K X X
8. Submission for Bank Review                       PIU/Bank                                               X X X X X
9. Preparation of Tender Documents                  PIU/Consultant                                          XX X X X X X
10. Submission for Bank Review                       PIU/Bank                                                          X X X X
11. Invitation for Bids                              PIU/Consultant                                                          X
12. Bid Period and Evaluation                        SED/PIU
13. Submission for Bank Review                       PIU/Bank
14. Awarding of Contracts                            SED/PIU
15. Construction Period                              SED/PIU
PIU/Contractor
C. Furniture and Equipment
16. Preparation of Master Lists                      SED/PlU                                X X X X X X X
17. Submission for Bank Review                       PIU/Bank                                        X X X  XX
18. Preparation of Tender Documents                  SED/PIU                                       X X X X  X X X
19. Submission for Bank Review                       PIU/Bank                                              X X X X X
20. Invitation for Bids                              SED/PIU                                                    X X X X
21. Bid Period and Evaluation                        SED/PIU                                                        X X X XX
22. Submission of Bid Analysis for Bank Review    PIU/Bank                                                                 X X
23. Bank Approval and Contract Awards                PIU/Bank                                                                X
24. Procurement                                      PIU/Contractor                                                          X
D. Technical Training & Specialist Services
25. Preparation of Terms of Reference for
Expert Services and Submission for
Bank Review                                    pIU/MOA/Bank                         X X X X X
26. Recruitment of Experts                           PIU/MOA                                X X X X X
27. Selection of Experts                             PIU/MOA                                   X X  X X
28, Appointment of Experts                           PIU                                         X X X X
29. Experts Services Period                          MOA/Experts                                   X X X X X X X X X X
30. Preparation of Selection Criteria for
Fellowships and Bank Review                    PIU/Bank                           X X X
31. Selection of Candidates for Fellowships           PIU                                   X X X X
32. Fellowships Training Period                      PIU/Fellows                                            X X  X X X X
I/ Assumed effective date November    1976.
August 1976






MALAYSIA
FOURTH EDUCA.TION PROJECT
IMPLEMENVTATION SCHEDULE
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17                                 ignK                1979                low:C L                                   1 iX82
_-TP "` -UA_0, ' I.                                                          -TI             FF1              S                    -||
A  P.1111 1 -
Ag    gmng         D SW
E  AezV s dt                                                                                                                                                                 s3 






I t it i   t i t    I-s
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
1974
MALE ENROLLMENT                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL ENROLLMENT              FEMALE ENROLLMENT
AND ENROLLMENT                                                                                                                                                                                     AND ENROLLMENT                 AND ENROLLMENT
RATIO                                                                              BOYS                                                                      GIRLS                          RATIO (BOTH SEXES)                    RATIO
AGE/GRADEENOLET00')                                                                                                ERLMN    0's
8.%18 13                                                                                                  4.                    2.9                                          I-i 
33%f                -                                                                     1T .SCNDR,,                                                                                                         1 |O4O00                  6.500
17 12                                                                                                                                                                                        29%                   125%
96t~,00 8- PRIjMIR                                                                                                                        f                                             i! 164 9886 ,00                               62900%'
85,900         6 ll                                              _4 1698
55,9000UPPER SECONDARY                                                                                                                                                                       I4880    2000
29%               16126%                                                                                                                                                                                                              J22%
1:510                                                                                           44I
Fp149    1974. (o
232,000            12 8                                                                                             95.1
70%                            LOWER SECONDARY              -5                                                                                                                --                                  95,600                 1,262,800
1 27                                                                                           110.9                                                                                         64..,j..,...5,.- 
(8 or 7)                                           TRANSITIDN OR BRIDGE  JLS                 4.
11 684.
10 5113
961,000                P I  AR9   4                                                                         159.9 _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _1,841,000                                                                 aao,0oo
6 1
200      180      160      140      120      100       80       80      40        20        0        20       40       60       80       100      120      140      160      180      200
Source: Ministry of Edocatioc and the Depatrtment of Education of Sabah
and Sarawek. Age'groop estimates urn based upon: Department
of Statistics, Popalatione Projections, Malnysia 1970-1990, Koala
Lumpar, 1974. (Projection C.)
Notes:
1. The enrolments are for assisted schools only except for Sarawak where those of private (unaided) secondary schools
have been inciuded. At the primary tevel in 1971, enrnlments in private schoofs amount to less than 0.5% of total
enrolments. At the secondary level In 1971, enrolments in such schools amounted to 8.9% of total enrolments (7%
In Peninsula. Malaysia, 6% in Sabah and 36% in Sarawak)4.
2. Population estimates for specific age-groups are shown by broken lines...
3. A feature of the projections for Peninsolat Malaysia and Sarawak is a bulge in age-distribution roughly between the
ages of 9-14 In 1975 and 14-19 in 1980.
4. In 1974, there were 16,130 students in Malaysian universities and about 6,700 teacher training colleges. The esti-
mated number of students studying overseas in 1972 totalled 26,420.
5. The enrolment figures include over and under age students.                                                                                                                                  World Bank-15731 (R)






MALAYSIA
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1975
PRIMARY                                       SECONDARY                                 POST-SECONDARY
AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL'
<S) ~~VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS
ENGLISH PRIMARY BEING                                                                               KUNO   POLTECNI
CONVERTED TO MALAY!-/                                                                                                                 DILM  IUNONPLTEHI
=E9  1 4    5,  3_      'OH POLYTECHNIC                                1 EDUCATION
IN SARAWAK)                                                                                            3U.MALAYA
~~  H  IT ~~~~~~ir Sarawak                                                               HU   FPNN
N iARa7tK E M v     0 3  B in Sabah)                                                       S-                  }u OFPENANG
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY
3F> s                               TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE
1H}  2    3    4         AGRICULTURE UNiVERSITY (SERDANG)
(Not provided in Sabah
and Sarawak)
EXAMI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)~NATIOSNIIONAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
LCE      Lo wve Cert ficate of Education                                                                                         MARA INSTITUT-E OF TECHNOLOGYt
SC     - School Certificate
MCE      Malayair Certificate of Education
HSC    - Hrqher School Certificate                                                                     1    2
SJC   Sabah Junlr Certificdte                                         _      i     ~~~~~~~SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
SiC       Sabah Junior Certificate                                                                              COLLEGES/CENTERS
SSC    - Sabah Senoio Certificate
MCVE  - Malaysiari C. of Vocritioral Efucation                                                                                    / In West Malaysia and Sabah, the
CG        City & GLilids Certificate_                                                                                              English stream is being converted
roto Malav stream by stages as
_KEY.    LISH                                                                                                   -I H          \                fromn 1970 .ind according to the
KEY.                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~following Plan.
ENGLISH                                                                                                                                        1970-75 Primary
< MALAY  1                                                                  _                                                                    B 1976-80 Secondary
MALA                                                                  -D-91                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~198f1-92 Si.th Forms
__-       (~MEDIUM OF INSTRUCTION                                                                           _    R                                9t8   it  om
CHINESE  tElMOISTUIN                                                                                                       PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
COLLEGES/CENTERS
R   REMOVE TRANSITION (TI OR BRIDGE (B) CLASS                                               P 
PT  PUPIL TEACHING                                                                                                               sUnder MmoistrV osf Agriculture                         C)
tUnler the Minister for Cooidinatiori
5   SABAH ONLY                                                                                                               of Public Corporations
World Bank-15726






MALAYS IA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
< V : : 7 . ~~~~~~~~~~~PRIMARlY SCHOOLS                                  NEW INDUt9TRIAL TRAIN ING INSTITUTES               MINTERNTNAL OCitADS  II\   0t
0 J Q  th AI $ nf S  i ; i ;0  (^, . X s, 0z ; Z  a .@ --- tSTATE tARIE S 1l STATE  BOUNDARIES 
| - * t < -; <' ' :' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAINING CENTERS,. . |
. .  re. ,lP *J*S        I . $) &DQ102t                TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE                                                           :t  7 
t;, :,   ,    s _     ,       A)                             EDUCATION IIESOURCE CENTERS                           IE        00                        ''     o                     SARANi                           
ERAI MAAYI                                                C iQ                  0                                  *0 200WA 300   400X
g ~ ~ ~~~~~~PPN                                                          T) k;L METERSoitSIR/4(                                                                    >$      ;\1  ;t < ;G ;;3
A~                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~ A. a  N E



