Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-19 10-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR A
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
September 9, 1976
This document has a restricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1.00*               =     M$2.58
M$1.00                 =     US$0.39
MEASURES
1 m2                           1.09 yd.
1 m 2                  2 =     10.76 sq. ft.
I km      = 1,000,000 m2 =     0.39 sq. mi. = 247 acres
1 hectare =    10,000 m  =     2.47 acres
GLOSSARY
CDD       -   Community Development Division (Ministry of Agriculture)
DFD       -   Development and Finance Division (Ministry of Education)
EMS       -   Educational Media Service (Ministry of Education)
EPC       -   Educational Planning Committee (Ministry of Education)
EPRD      -   Educational Planning and Research Division (Ministry of
Education)
HSC       -   Higher School Certificate
ILO       -   International Labor Organization
ITI       -   Industrial Training Institute
ITM       -   Institute of Technology, MARA (Council of Trust for
Indigenous People)
LCE       -   Lower Certificate of Education
MARA      -   Majlis Amanah Ra'ayat - Council of Trust for Indigenous People
MCDS      -   Malaysian Center for Development Studies
MOA       -   Ministry of Agriculture
MOE       -   Ministry of Education
MOLM      -   Ministry of Labor and Manpower
MTC       -   Malay Teachers' College
NACIT     -   National Advisory Council on Industrial Training
NITTCB    -   National Industrial Training and Trade Certification Board
NYPC      -   National Youth Pioneers Corps
PWD       -   Public Works Department
SMP       -   Second Malaysia Plan
TMP       -   Third Malaysia Plan
TTC       -   Teacher Training College
VCC       -   Village Community Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December. 31
*    Since June 21, 1973 the Malaysian dollar has floated in relation to the
US dollar. The exchange rate used in this report is the short-term
average at the time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR A FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$35.0 million to help finance the
Fourth Education Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, includ-
ing three and a half (3-1/2) years of grace, with interest at 8.90 percent
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest economic report, "Recent Economic Developments and Long-
Term Issues", was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 19, 1975.
Detailed data on Malaysia's economy are shown in Annex I.
3.        With a per capita GNP of US$570 (1973), Malaysia is one of the most
prosperous developing countries in Southeast Asia.   The Malaysian economy has
maintained a fairly high rate of growtlh of CNP in constant market prices,
averaging around 6 percent during the 1960s and almost 7 percent since 1970.
4.        Exports account for about 45 percent of GNP.   Rubber continues to be
the main pillar of the Malaysian econolay, contributing almost 30 percent of
export earnings and about 15 percent ov GDP, but considerable progress has
been made toward reducing the dependence on rubber through a diverqification
of exports to palm oil, timber and manuifactured goods. In the futuJre, the
country's oil resources will also help to expand the export base. In 1975,
Malaysia's production of crude oil was 100,000 barrels per day, which is
slightly more than the country's domestic consumption. In a few years, oil
production should increase twofold to provide a significant boost to foreign
exchange earnings. Substantial reserves of natural gas are also available and
it is expected that by the early 1980s Malaysia will begin exporting liquefied
natural gas, further strengthening the country's balance of payments position.
5.        Malaysia has few foreign exchange controls, and the external reserves
(totaling over US$1.6 billion at the end of 1975 at the current exchange rate)
are equal to about five months of import payments. Malaysia's conlervative
fiscal and monetary management has considerably enhanced the country's finan-
cial standing. Public sector revenues have been growing rapidly, mainly as a
result of vigorous taxation efforts. The ratio of total Government revenues
to GNP is now about 24 percent. Conser-vative financial policies are also
reflected in the relatively low level of external public debt and the low
ratio of debt service payments to foreign exchange receipts (3.9 percent in
1975).
6.        In the past few years, econownic developments in Malaysia have been
generally favorable, generating higher incomes in the rural sector as well
as substantial increases in national income even though economic performances
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



in 1974 and 1975 were much below the record 1973 levels. As a result of
the world-wide recession and falling commodity prices, there was a definite
deceleration of the economy starting in the second half of 1974. GDP in real
terms is estimated to have increased by 7 percent in 1974 and by about 1 per-
cent in 1975 compared with 13 percent in 1973. As a result of a drop in
demand for agricultural exports,'value added in the agricultural sector did
not rise in 1975 after increasing by 5 percent in 1974 over the high 14 per-
cent increase in 1973. Shortages of materials and high costs of construction
cut into the industrial growth rates. Nevertheless, in 1976 we estimate that
GDP will grow about 7 percent, assuming a world-wide economic recovery.
7.        The rate of inflation has now been considerably reduced.     After
a decade of remarkable price stability (with consumer prices rising on an
average of only 1 percent per annum), domestic prices began to show a notice-
able upward trend in 1973. Average consumer prices increased 10.5 percent in
1973 and 18 percent in 1974. However, the price rise slowed down in 1975 to
about 6 percent. Price pressures have been principally a result of the move-
ments in the world commodity prices. However, since Malaysia is a net
exporter of oil, its economy has not been adversely affected by the higher
price of oil, and in the long run the country should benefit from high oil
prices.
8.         During the past several years, the Government's long-term planning
has concentrated on reducing the economic disparity between the Malays, who
account for a little over half the population, and non-Malays of whom about
70 percent are Chinese. The Goverriment is pursuing a two-pronged economic
policy to qradicate poverty and to restructure the society so that the present
identification of race with economic activity will be eliminated. The basic
outlines of the New Economic Policy, announced in June 1971, allow for con-
tinued economic growth for each of the principal ethnic groups while enlarg-
ing the economic opportunities for Malays.
9.        In the past few years the Government has mounted an increasingly
strong development effort. During 1970-75, gross domestic investment in real
terms rose at a faster rate than real GNP, averaging 8.5 percent per annum.
During this period, total public sector development expenditures amounted to
about US$3.9 billion, of which 50 perceut was financed by net domestic borrow-
ing, 16 percent by net foreign borrowing, and the balance by public savings.
The Bank has been providing about 22 percent of foreign loan commitments.
Loans from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and bilateral aid, mainly from
Japan and Commonwealth countries, provided the rest. In view of the coun-
try's very favorable resource position, the Bank has recommended that the
Government continue to expand its public investment program.
10.       No support this program, subst:antial new foreign loan commitments
will be reqluired during the period of the Third Five Year Plan (1976-80). If
project loans from multilateral sources (IBRD and ADB) remain at approximately
current levels, there will need to be an increase in assistance from bilateral
sources such as Japan and the OPEC countries, as well as higher levels of
market borrowing, to maintain the 1970-74 growth rate of over 8 percent.



11.       I)ebt service obligations at present are about 3.9 percent of exports
of goods and nonfactor services and, in light of the expanded development
program, are estimated to rise' to over 6 percent during the late 1970s. This
level, however, is still well within Malaysia's debt servicing capacity. The
Bank's share in Malaysia's debt service payments is 20 percent and is expected
to drop to about 14 percent by 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
12.       The Bank has made 30 loans to Malaysia for projects in education,
population, agriculture, forestry, industrial finance, power, water supply,
telecommunications, ports, railways, roads and urban transport. Two addi-
tional loans (for sewerage and urban transport) were signed on March 11,
1976 and another loan (for rural development) was signed on July 21,
1976, but they were not effective yet as of August 15, 1976. Although in
a few cases disbursements have been slow, the execution of the projects
has generally been satisfactory. As of July 31, 1976, the loans to
Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to US$576.0 million. In addition, the
Bank made a loan in 1965 to the Public UJtilities Board of Singapore (Loan
405-MA), guaranteed by Malaysia, to finance the Johore River Project.
The amount held by the Bank under that loan, as of July 31, 1976, was
US$4.4 million. Eleven loans have been fully disbursed. Annex II con-
tains a sulmmary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
13.       Bank assistance to Malaysia is in line with the country's New
Economic Policy which seeks to eliminate racial and geographical imbalances
in income distribution. The Bank will therefore continue to support
Malaysia's agricultural programs - including land development, rehabilitation
and settlement, and improvement of production in low income farming areas -
which are the effective means of reducing unemployment and income disparities.
The Bank will also continue to assist in financing infrastructure development,
including urban services and housing for the poor. The Bank has helped the
Government to prepare projects in the course of its lending operations and its
sector work, and has also helped to strengthen public agencies responsible for
carrying out important parts of Malaysia's development program. The Bank will
continue this policy, which will be reflected in the loans to be presented to
the Executive Directors in the next few years. These loans would be for
projects involving agricultural extension, irrigation, rural development,
land settlement, development finance companies, education, highways, and other
infrastructure.
14.       At present the Bank is assisting in the preparation of the Third
Mlalaysia Plan (1976-80), both in the consolidation of sectoral programs and
in the review of overall economic objectives and policies.



15.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1963 and has made six invest-
ments totaling US$8.69 million. The total commitments under the investments
held by IFC as of July 31, 1976 amounted to US$1.75 million (Annex II).
PART III - EDUCATION IN MALAYSIA
16.       The Malaysian educational system is strong in terms of its high
enrollment ratio, low dropout ratio, significant degree of female partici-
pation, ar, extensive textbook loan scheme, growing use of mass media,
and existence of an active curriculum development center. Nevertheless,
several key weaknesses of the education sector can be identified, namely:
that the existing system to allocate resources according to objective
criteria among educational levels, among states and within states is
inadequate; that educational services are distributed unequally, partic-
ularly in the provision of adequate primary school facilities and
trained teachers to poorer states and rural areas; that the Government's
capacity for primary school construction is limited; and that the capacity
of vocational training institutions is insufficient to meet industry's
demand for skilled manpower.
17.       The educational system is comprised of a six-year primary cycle, a
seven-year secondary cycle and a four-year university program. Students not
entering universities may continue with specialized schooling (technical,
agricultural, and teacher training) after completing five years of the second-
ary cycle. Administration of primary, secondary, teacher training and uni-
versity education is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education (MOE).
Responsibility for specialized formal training and non-formal education is
spread among a number of other Governmental organizations, including the
Ministry of Labor and Manpower (MOLM), the Council of Trust for Indigenous
People (MARA) and the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
18.       Primary Education.   Primary school enrollment is virtually uni-
versal and most of it is concentrated in Government schools. Average rate
of dropout is low since promotion is automatic throughout primary school.
Nevertheless, the poor physical facilities of many primary schools impede
effective learning. Classrooms are often overcrowded, poorly lighted,
inadequately built, and unhygienic. The Government's efforts to replace or
expand the inadequate facilities so far have not been focused on the rural
areas where such conditions predominate. The inequities in the provision of
primary education have resulted from inadequate planning. Systematic plan-
ning based on school mapping (to determine the optimum geographical
school distribution on the basis of school-age population, existing
school facilities, their locations, etc.) should be introduced to assist
the Government in allocating resources more equitably (see paragraph 28).
A Cabinet Committee worked out a set of policies in late 1973 for re-
dressing inequities by improving educational services to disadvantaged
areas. However, implementation of these policies has been uneven. In
the face of strong pressure to expand higher education, it has been
difficult to provide the funds necessary to implement the programs for
primary education.



19.       Secondary Education.   Since almost 80 percent of primary school
graduates go on to secondary schools, the enrollment ratio in the lower
secondary cycle is high. Curricula at the lower cycle secondary schools are
a satisfactory blend of a core program in academic subjects and electives in
practical subjects. At the upper cycle, students are separated into an arts
or a science stream. Physical facilities are generally adequate, but the
lack of systematic planning for new schools has led to inequities in the
provision of secondary education.
20.       Technical and Vocational Education.   Skilled workers and operators
are trained by twenty secondary vocational schools of the Ministry of Educa-
tion (MOE), two industrial training institutes (ITIs) of the Ministry of
Labor and Manpower (MOLM), six vocational institutes of the Council of Trust
for Indigenous People (MARA), and in-plant programs run by industries. Since
there is a shortage of skilled production workers, the annual output of about
3,000 from the existing insitutions needs to be increased substantially.
Development of the MOE secondary vocational schools is still at an early
stage, and the Government is working,to improve them. The flexible training
scheme of the ITIs has proved to be successful and employment prospects for
graduates are good. Demand for graduates of MARA vocational institutes is
also increasing, and the Government is financing expansion of the MARA
institutes.
21.       Higher Education.   There are five institutions in Malaysia with
university status, namely, the University of Malaya, the National University,
the University of Science, the University of Agriculture, and the National
Institute of Technology. In addition, three polytechnic institutes offer
post-secondary, non-university training. Enrollment totaled 16,000 in the
five universities and 7,400 in the three polytechnics in 1974-75. Shortages
of graduates exist in some specialized fields.(e.g., architecture), while
unemployment is projected for liberal arts graduates.
22.       Teacher Training.   Teachers for primary and lower secondary
schools are trained in a two-year program in teacher training colleges
under the Ministry of Education. The supply (currently about 1,400 per
annum) provides adequate numbers of new teachers in most states except
Sarawak where an annual shortage of about 170 teachers is projected. The
quality of the newly trained teachers is generally satisfactory. Teachers
for the upper secondary level and for the sixth form (two-year program after
the upper secondary cycle) are university-trained either in a four-year
program or a five-year program including a one-year postgraduate course
in education. The supply is adequate to meet the projected demand. About
13 percent of the nation's 48,000 primary school teachers are uncertified.
Most of them work in rural areas where it is difficult to attract trained
teachers due to the lack of housing and other amenities.
23.       Non-formal Education.   The present system of adult and community
education under the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) focuses on illiterate and
semi-literate adults and on rural women. Present operations in these areas
are underfinanced, deficient in trained personnel, and poorly coordinated
with educational and rural development activities of other agencies. Demand



for community education services is apparently great, but expansion of the
services should be preceded by a review of the problems of existing programs.
24.       Educational Financing.   The costs of education are borne mainly by
the federal government. State governments have no financial responsibility
for education. Private schools enroll few students. In 1974, expenditures
by the Ministry of Education amounted to about 24 percent of the federal
government's total current expenditures. The total educational effort of
the country, including private expenditures, was estimated at 7.2 percent of
GNP in 1974. These figures are high in comparison with other countries and
reflect the priority assigned by the Government to education and training.
25.       Bank Involvement in Education.   Currently three education pro-
jects are being implemented in Malaysia with asistance from the Bank. The
first project (Loan 599-MA, signed in 1969) provided US$8.8 million to
assist technical, vocational and agricultural education. All but one of
the 21 project institutions have been completed and are in full operation.
Construction of the last institution is to be completed in late 1976. A
second loan of US$15.5 million (Loan 810-MA, signed in 1972), is financing
a curriculum development center, educational television for Peninsular
Malaysia, vocational schools and the development of a science university.
A third project (Loan 974-MA, signed in 1974) assists government efforts
to develop technician training, pre-service teacher training and educational
television in East Malaysia. Despite the initial delays in the implemen-
tation of the second and third projects, both are expected to be completed
on schedule.
26.       Educational Investment Programs.   In line with the basic objectives
of the Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80), the educational programs are formulated
to:
(a) close the gap in educational opportunities among the
regions and races;
(b) integrate the educational systems of Sabah and Sarawak
with the national system;
(c) orient and expand the educational and training programs
toward meeting the manpower needs of the country; and
(d) improve educational planning and implementing capacity.
Educational development expenditures are expected to increase more than
threefold from M$560 million during the Second Plan period (1971-75) to
M$1,720 million during the Third Plan period (1976-80). Of MOE's Third
Plan expenditures, higher education is expected to receive a share of
about 39 percent and secondary and primary education about 27 and 22 per-
cent respectively. The primary school investment target calls for the
construction of 3,000 primary school classrooms per year, which represents
a sharp increase over the actual construction of 1,250 classrooms per
year during the Second Plan period. This increase in investment would
correct the past underfinancing of primary education to a considerable
extent.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
General
27.       The proposed fourth project would support the Government's
five-year primary school construction program in seven of Malaysia's most
disadvantaged states. The program is designed to improve the quality of
primary schooling and to redress existing imbalances in the provision of
primary education. The project would also provide assistance to the
Ministry of Labor and Manpower for a further expansion and upgrading of
industrial skill training and to the Ministry of Agriculture for a study
of community education and the establishment of three community service
centers. More specifically, the project would provide construction,
furniture, equipment and related technical assistance for the following
institutions:
Number of
Institutions
To be       To be         Annual
expanded      built        Enrollment
or replaced    newly     Present   Planned
(A) Primary School
Development (MOE)
Primary Schools                     698         150      140,000   240,000
Teacher Training College
(pre-service teacher training)     1            -         150        480
Education Resource Centers
(in-service teacher training)      -            4         -       16,000
(B) Industrial Skill Training (MOLM)
Industrial Training Institutes        2           3          900     2,900
(C) Community Education (MOA)
Community Service Centers             -           3           -        -
Primary School Development
28.       The proposed project would support the primary school construction
program of the Third Malaysia Plan in the seven states which have the least
developed educational systems, namely, Kedah, Kelantan, Pahang, Perak, Sabah,
Sarawak and Trengganu. It would:
(a)  establish within the Ministry of Education the institutions
and procedures required for school mapping and planning;
(b)  increase the capacity of the Government to implement
primary school construction programs by strengthening
the staff of the Ministry of Education and the Public
Works Department;



- 8 -
(c) redress inequities in the provision of primary education
through the construction of approximately 4,100 classrooms
and related facilities for about 850 primary schools in
poverty areas;
(d) improve primary school instruction by establishing four
Education Resource Centers for in-service teacher training;
and
(e) meet the need for primary school teachers in Sarawak by
establishing a teacher training college at Miri.
29.       For each proposed project school, a standardized educational
and architectural brief would be completed which would provide the basic
architectural data and the information required for school mapping. Con-
struction programs would be developed on the basis of the school mapping
exercises. Since in Sabah and Sarawak a number of administrative units are
concerned with school planning, the construction program would be reviewed
by a preliminary review committee before final review, as in all other
project states, by a joint MOE-PWD development committee. The existing
Educational Planning Committee of the Ministry of Education would approve
the final state construction plans and be responsible for the interstate
allocation of resources. An agreement was reached on the kinds of data
to be included in the standardized educational and architectural brief
and on the procedure to be applied for further development of the brief.
The Government has agreed that it would continue to develop and collect
information on a set of educational indicators and establish school
mapping and planning procedures for allocating educational resources
among and within the project states (see Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
30.       Bank financing would be provided for one man-year of expatriate
specialist services to assist in conducting workshops for training the staff
in school mapping and planning, and 12 man-years of fellowships for training
the staff overseas. An agreement was reached on a schedule for training
the personnel.
31.       The criteria used in identifying the need and priority locations
for new schools include: participation rates, commuting time, location and
physical condition of existing schools, and projected population. The allo-
cation of project facilities is broadly consistent with the needs of each
state. Modifications to the interstate allocation of facilities and to the
locations of project schools within states would be expected to take place as
a result of the school mapping exercise. Assurances of the Government were
obtained that the Government would submit to the Bank the proposed annual
primary school construction programs indicating the distribution of
facilities by and within states.
32.       Two standard primary school designs would be used, one for full-size
schools and the other for sub-size schools (less than six classrooms). In rural
areas where housing is unavailable, staff quarters (about 700 units) would be
provided to attract and retain teachers. Because of physical obstacles to



daily commuting (mainly rivers), hostels for about 1,200 pupils would be
provided in remote areas of Sarawak. Acceptable standard designs have been
developed for primary school facilities.
33.       Graduates from teacher training institutes are adequately trained
and sufficient in numbers in all project states except Sarawak, where the
annual output of teacher training institutes should be increased by approxi-
mately 170 graduates over the present output of 70 at Sibu (see paragraph 22).
To make up for the projected deficit, the proposed project would establish a
new teacher training college at Miri, which would replace the existing college
at Sibu. Bank financing would be provided for construction, equipment, and
furniture for the new college, and for 16 man-years of fellowships for staff
training.
34.       In order that new and existing school facilities be used to provide
good quality education, the Government is planning to strengthen its teaching
force through a program of regular in-service teacher training. The proposed
project would assist in the first phase of this effort through the establish-
ment of four training institutions (Education Resource Centers) in Alor Star
(Kedah), Kota Bharu (Kelantan), Kuala Trengganu (Trengganu) and Kuantan
(Pahang). Bank financing would also be provided for 12 man-years of overseas
training for the staff of the Education Resource Centers.
Industrial Skill Training
35.       To increase the supply of skilled manpower necessary for industrial
development, the project would provide for the establishment of three new
Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) in Kuala Trengganu, Johore Bharu and
Kota Kinabalu and extensions to the two existing ITIs in Kuala Lumpur and
Prai. The major courses offered would be for. the mechanical, electrical,
building and printing trades. Courses new to Malaysia would be offered in
tool and die-making, foundry works, textile industry mechanics, food process-
ing technology, and timber industry mechanics to meet the requirements of
growing new industries in Malaysia. The quality of instructor training would
be improved by 19 man-years of specialist services and 30 man-years of fellow-
ships provided under the project. Bank financing would include construction,
equipment, furniture and technical assistance for all five ITIs.
Community Education
36.       The Government is now planning a study of its system of community
education. The Community Development Division of the Ministry of Agriculture
would be responsible for the study and it intends to contract the Malaysian
Center for Development Studies (MCDS) to do evaluaion, program development,
and report writing. The proposed Bank loan would finance the MCDS contract,
2.5 man-years of specialist services, and construction, equipment and furnish-
ing of the three community service centers.



- 10 -
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
37.       The total project cost (including physical and price contingencies)
would be about US$124.6 million, of which about US$35.2 million, or 28 per-
cent, would be in foreign exchange. Physical and price contingencies would
amount to about US$36.3 million, or 29 percent of the total project cost.
Construction cost estimates are based on the recent cost of similar insti-
tutions in Malaysia and refer to June 1976 prices. Technical assistance
costs were estimated on the basis of US$55,000 per man-year for expert
services and US$12,000 for fellowships. Construction costs are about 25 to
40 percent higher in Sabah and Sarawak than in Peninsular Malaysia. This
is mainly due to the high cost of transporting building materials from
Peninsular Malaysia, the relatively high cost of local labor, and less
competition in bidding. The detailed cost estimates of the project are
given in Annex III.
38.       The proposed Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
component of the project; the Government would meet the local costs from
budgetary resources.
Project Implementation
39.       Administration and Staffing.   An important objective of the
project is to increase the capacity of the Government to implement its
primary school construction program. The existing Project Unit in the
Ministry of Education, responsible for implementation of the three
ongoing Bank projects, would be provided additional staff to supervise
the execution of the proposed fourth project. At the state level, the
existing education development officers would be designated as state (or
regional) project coordinators. Design, tendering and supervision of
civil works for the project primary schools would be the responsibility
of the federal and state Public Works Departments. The Industrial Training
Institute (ITI) component of the project would be implemented by the
Training Services Division of the Ministry of Labor and Manpower. The
Government has agreed to a five-year staffing program for the imple-
mentation of the project; staff would be appointed in accordance with an
agreed schedule (see Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement). The project
directors in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labor and
Manpower have both been designated. Appointment of other key staff would
be conditions of disbursement for particular project components.
40.       Professional Services.   Because of the manpower shortage in
the Public Works Department, consultants would be employed to design,
prepare contract documents for, and supervise construction of the Teacher
Training College, four Education Resource Centers, and one Industrial
Training Institute.



- 11 -
41.       Sites.  Suitable sites have been tentatively identified for all
project primary schools. Locations have been selected to redress the
intrastate disparities in the provision of primary education. Most of the
sites for new schools in the first year construction program have either
been acquired or are owned by the Ministry of Education. Sites for the new
Industrial Training Institutes and the Education Resource Centers have
been selected and are in the process of acquisition. The site for the
Teacher Training College at Miri has not been selected. The Government
has agreed to select and acquire suitable sites for project institutions
six months prior to the scheduled date for the commencement of con-
struction (see Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement
42.       Contracts for civil works and furniture would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding following domestic advertising and local pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign contractors would be allowed
to participate. This arrangement is justified because the contracts would
be small and geographically scattered; all civil works contracts under the
first, second and third education projects have been won by local contrac-
tors; and Malaysia's construction industry is large and efficient. Prior
Bank approval would be required for all civil works contracts except those
for the project primary schools. During negotiations, the Government pro-
vided assurances that all civil works contracts would be exempt from existing
preferences applicable to local contractors in bid evaluation. Equipment
contracts over US$100,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. In
bid comparison, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15 percent over the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the
existing customs duty, whichever is less. Equipment purchases which cannot
reasonably be grouped to form contracts of at least US$100,000 equivalent
would be awarded without prior Bank approval on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally following government procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Off-the-shelf items, not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent in each
contract and aggregating a total of less than US$250,000 equivalent, would
be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations. Books would be
purchased in accordance with the normal procedures of the Borrower (see
Schedule 4 of the Loan Agreement).
Disbursement
43.       The proposed loan of US$35.0 million would be disbursed at the
following percentages:
(a) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported equipment;
(b) 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
equipment;
(c) 70 percent of the cost of imported and locally procured
equipment;



- 12 -
(d) 25 percent of the expenditures on civil works, professional
services, and furniture; and
(e) 100 percent of the total cost of technical assistance.
To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in
groups of US$50,000 prior to submission to the Bank. Disbursement for civil
works for the primary schools would be made against quarterly summaries of
expenditures prepared by the Public Works Department and certified by the
Ministry of Education. Supporting documents will be retained by the Borrower
and be made available for inspection by the Bank's progress review missions.
The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex III. Disbursement is
expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.
44.       Since a large number of primary schools are involved, the MOE
Project Unit would maintain a file for each project primary school avail-
able for inspection by the Bank's progress review missions. Each file would
include: the completed educational and architectural brief; the layout plans;
the bids received; the bid analysis, and contract recommendation and award;
and the details of expenditures (see Schedule 5, paragraph 2 of the Loan
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
45.       A central objective of the project, and an important justification
for Bank financing, is to strengthen planning and implementation mechanisms
for the improved allocation of educational resources. The project would
introduce objective procedures for allocating resources between educational
levels, among states and within states. Under the project, school planning
offices at the division, state and national levels would be strengthened in
terms of personnel and expertise. Procedures for collection and analysis of
data required for school mapping would be standardized. A set of indicators
would be developed to measure educational priorities by state. The project
would also contribute to improving resource allocations by documenting the
relative needs among states and levels of education and by ensuring that funds
allocated to primary education are not diverted to other types of education.
46.       A large portion of Malaysia's primary school enrollment is accom-
modated in substandard facilities which impede effective learning. Because
inadequate facilities and poorly qualified teachers tend to be concentrated
in areas deprived also of most other social and economic amenities, invest-
ment in primary education in these disadvantaged areas should receive prior-
ity. The proposed project would improve primary school facilities, relieve
overcrowding, attract better teachers to rural areas, and retrain existing
teachers. In the short term, the improved quality of primary education for
240,000 youths in disadvantaged areas is expected to reduce dropouts,
increase pupil achievement, and bring the level of primary education in the
poverty states closer to that of the other states. In the medium term, it



- 13 -
would help reduce disparities between socio-economic groups in opportunities
for secondary and higher education. In the long term, the project would help
reduce income differentials, part of which are attributable to inequities in
the initial provision of education.
47.       Another objective of the proposed project would be to increase
the supply of trained manpower required for continued development of industry.
The proposed increase in the training capacity of Industrial Training Insti-
tutes would help produce an additional 6,500 skilled workers between 1980
and 1985, many in newly emerging fields. This increased supply of skilled
workers is expected to support the growth of manufacturing output on which
Malaysia's development strategy depends. The project would also provide
direct support to the construction industry by generating about 20,000 man-
years of employment for construction workers.
48.       The principal risk to be considered is that the Government may
not fully meet its long-term commitment to school mapping and allocation
of educational resources based on objective criteria of need. The commit-
ment is likely to grow rather than diminish, even though vested interests
in particular cases may cause exceptions to such planning procedures.
There is also some risk involved in placing additional responsibility on
the Public Works Department for an increased school construction program.
However, the performance of the Public Works Department was good under the
Second Malaysia Plan and the project includes special measures designed to
strengthen the implementation capacity of the Ministry of Education and the
Public Works Department. Success of the vocational training component would
depend mainly on the supply of experienced instructors. In spite of these
risks, the project promises to make an important contribution towards better
educational facilities and teachers for disadvantaged areas, improved use
of educational resources and an increased supply of skilled manpower.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement, and the text of a resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
50.       Features of special interest in the Loan Agreement are described
in paragraphs 28, 30, 40, 41, 42 and 44 of this report. Special conditions
of disbursement for each project state are the creation and staffing of key
implementation positions by the federal and state governments (see para-
graph 38 of this Report and Schedule 1, paragraphs 4 (b) through (f) of the
Loan Agreement).
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 14 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
September 9, 1976



aha pas".
M*LAVSI         * ~CI.8L  IMORCATDRS DATA SHEET
LAND AREAALTOI                                                                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
IOTAL  329.F                                 ~~~~~~~qDST RECENT        R               OtUA            OXC
AGRIC        32911960                                   1070    ESTIMATE            PER             ....T.....       ...........
GNP PER CAPITA (US&)                          230.0        64.0         570.0                 510.10       9 40. 0      72.
…--   - -  -- -  - - -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION CPAIDTR. MILLION)                  8.0         10.1         U2.3                  13.5          9.1         50.7
POPULATION DENSITY3401.                                                                                     .          2   0
PER SQUARD KM.                             24.0         32.0         3.01.9.0                                        20
PER SO. KN. AGRTCULTURAL LAND                . 
VI TAL STATISTICS                                                                                                      43 
CRUDE MIATH RATE PER THOUSAND              '(.0 Li     33.La         33.3                 42.8         1*.?           3.
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND              10.0          7.37Li       6.9 L               11.0         10.199
IMFANT MORTALITY RIATE (/THOU)            62. 0        40.8 L       38.5 L                63.0         58.0         68. 5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)             57.0 a.      86.0 Li      61.0                 58.8         67.0          61. 0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     2. t        2.6 L         2.1                  2 .9          1.5          3. 1
POPULATION GOWOTH RATE (5)
t3TAL                                       2. 9         2.7          2.6                  2. 9          1. I         3.5
URBAN                                                                  *.                    .0         *69           5. 0
URMA AN POPULA I ION C? Or TO TAL).                       2 9.0/ it                          5 3.0        36. 5        59. 0
AGE STRUCTURI: (PERCENT)                                    .   a48                                a      2.562
0 TO aATAS4j.                                             7p..9
Ii1  4YEARS                           3.8         542.1/A                            528L.        618          4.
65 YEARS AND OVER                           2.8 ~Q~     3.2/                               3.a/          97            .
AIE DEPENDENCY RATIO                          0.9          0. 9/A,       .                    0.9 la       0.6          1.0
ECONOMIC IERENDENCY RATIO                      .A 4        I  /A         .                    1.8          1.1I         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                 ..        222.2 A     372.8 La                  .                      55.S
USERS El Of MARRIED WNOPERA                  ..          SO&P
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL... LMRFCE(THOUSAND)                   2300.0 /.    29000/ D30.0                                   3200.   /A13000.0
LORFORCE IN AGRICULTURE Cl%)             56. 0        4k 3 A/                             ..1f         15    i     5.
UNEMAPLOYTED (I OF LAOOR FORCE)               2.0          *0A                                3.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% of PRIvATO INCOMEl RECID BY-
HI GHE ST  S% OF HOUSEHOLDS                17.0        28.             ..11.4 /                           .         37. 8
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS                  44. 0        560            ..62.6 /.                                    6 3.2
LOWEST  20? OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.5           5.5           ..1. a                                        4.2
LOWEST    401 OF HOUSEHOLDS                18.0          1. 2                               .   i1.
DISTRtMUTION OF LAND TANERSHIP
I OWNED BY VIP 10% OF OWNERS                   .             ..                             93.0
I OWNED BT SMALLEST 101 ONNERS                 ...                        .0. I
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATIOA PER PHYSICIAN                  65(0. 0 /    ~    .           00A19 20 .0                    1100.0       14 40.0a
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             2600.0 el Al Io a O. o     1O0s.:0 L            3 200. 0      900.0 /A    150.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                 290. 0       270.0        270.0 /AA O. 0                    16 0. 0      9 30. 0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF 
CALORIES (I OF REOUIREMENTS)                 .         93.O    .        .98 .0                        118a.0       1 10. 0
PROTE IN (GRtAMS PER DAY)                    ..         A9OD           ..62.0                          850          6 5.0
-OF WHICH AN1I4WL AND PULSE               9. 0./0            j       .                  2 4.0       410. 0        20. 0 /8
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES I -4                   .            . 5          ....9.9a
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                             91.0 /        90   A      92.0OA              107.0         95.0        106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                           19.0 ~        A0    ~     37.0 Aj35.0                       52.0 /A      23. 0
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST 4NQ SOCOND LEVEL)                   1 3.0 /a.    1 3.0/t      133.0/A              1 2.0        1 3.0        12. 0
VOCATIONAL E4POLLMENT
(I OF SECONDARY)                            5.0 /        3.0/         3.0/A               19.0/A       32.0         24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)                      40. 0        F?77D/         .                     .          65. 0        76.0
HOUS ING
PERSONS PER ROOCM (AiVERAGE)                   .           2. 3          .                                              2. 2
OCCUPIEI DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (1)                              .          65.0/a          ....                                         61.0 LA
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I OF ALL DWELLINGSI                         .          4 3.0          .                               85. 0        59. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                           ..         30. 0          .                                            28. 0
CONSUPAPT 114
RADII RECEIVEYTS (PER THOU POP)              17.0         41. 0        40.0                1 34. 0       142. 0       2 76. 0
PASSENGER CAR5 (PER THOU POP)                15.0          3./         29.0A17.0                          57. 0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (YAWM/YR PER CAP)               20.    /A    382.0Z       510.O01~             140 7.        860          57.
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                     0. 0         4.0/ia       2. 9/36                             .            .
SEE VOTES AND ORFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Fage 2 of I. pages
Sm
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to eay year between 1959 and 1961, for MO7 betwean 196    mad 1970, and for Most Recent ettuce. between
1971 end 1973.
-s Mexico has bean selected an an objective Country since it has set a rapid Path of lodustrial expansion In the eesbe Malaysia' Loidustrial base
10 rletlaely eull and the country has the Capacity and plane to expead It. industrial production rapidly In the tuture.
MaAYASIA    L960    /a  Msat hAayslai     a  1957-58;   Le 1557;     11  flgiatered applicants for work, 19621    &  Federation of Malaya
1970 Meet Malaysia; aL Registered apliaatot for soak; is. Mwsher on register, oot all practicing in the country,
d   Pereonnel in govermnnt eeovlsee;    /a 19a-661     ZL 1967;    LS  Piped water ineide;    &   12-18 years of age.
MOST IMCWr ESTINAT.      /A Meet blaysia;     a    Pereonel In goveresent servicee)    /c  1974;   /d  12-lb years of age.
PERU        1970    /.  Exciudes Indian jungle population;   A    Urban arse" oalyj   Lc Isnosicelly active populationt      d   Including evenlog
echoole.
PORTUGAL    1970    /a  Portugal continental only;   A    Including sicdwves;   Li 12-16 years of age.
MEInCO      1970    /a  1964-66;    &  Inside onl.
R8, May 1.4, 1976
nEFmNITmwS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
TotdAre -thouiiitc    uracmrsiglnmre2n)con                   aes                      Popultiqo nor conin e prson - Population divided by numnber of prantio-
lot.1surfae a,e   compisingland  rea ad inlnd waers,ingma.eand toniegraduante curses, "'trained" or "coertified" nurses,
Ad-rMv-ou      rococ  eatioute of auricultural ares used temprsrtily or pe-             and auxiliary personnel with troining or experiesce.
ossryfor cr09p. pactur.o. sarket & kitcchen sardens or to lie fellow.          Populat::ionpr hospital bed -Populatioc divided by camber of hospital
besaviabei pbic and private generol and opecialioed hospital
ORP nor -  it. (US) - IRP per capita estimate. at tearhet pric.e, CaICU-                and rahabilitatios vectors; ecldes nursing honos and estublistuenta
some y  ..  conversion method es World Mask Atlas (1972-74 beels).               for custoctial and preventive Care.
ParcaitaouplycfcalrIs C o rourosents) - Computed frn       s.ergy
puo     n      Ialgai          c                                                       eq~u!ivalntcfnt0tf fod'supplie  ava-ilable in country par capita per
P'   Mid,M-ILion) -AofJyfis;inoavlbe,avrage                                       day; available supplies comprioe domnstic production, imeporto leon
ort t4W end-year estij t-en,                                                          exports, end changes in stock; net oupplien exclude onimal feed, needs,
quantities sed In fond processing and looses in distribution; re-
Population density       s ep uoare b  Mid-year population per square kiln-             quirmesnto were estimated by PAO based on pbyaiological needs for
mee lthecter;.eeoftotalors                                                      ncrnal activity and health Cosnidering environmental temperature,
"'olclod Cyto-nrour Inn of 0c         . isd - Compooed sA shove for              body weights, age and sex diotributiose of population, and allowing
aniuioollnd only                                                              I0% for wstaee at hounehold leve..
Idol stoinotic.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~Per capita suvply of rot.ein (rnsf. g~  - Protain content of par
V,tal stntisticK                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~capita net supply ofodprd4; net. oupply of food in definted an
Crodo birth rate  er thousond -Ainnool live births, per thousand of mid-                above; requirements for all countries established by USM   Economic
)eupa0aton   0000y  tom-"year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and               Rosearch Services pro,vids for a ninimumn allowance of i0 grams of tetal
191q 7r- developing coontriea.                                                        protein per day, and 20 grins of animal and pulse protein, of ,bhidh 10
frude death rate per -thousand - Annual deaths per thousand of eid-year                 grams should be animal protein; Lhasa otndards are lower thAn those
population; osually five-y-eaaverag   e. sing in 1960, 1970 and 1975                  of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of anisual protein as an aver.
f'o- developing countries,                                                            age for the  wsrld, prop-ned by FAO irn the Third Wnrld Food Survey.
1nfant motaity rate ('thou) - Anneal deaths of inlfants under one yew'                 ercapita proei     supl  ro  aialud sulso       - Protein supply of food
of age pr thousand live   birthe.                                                     derived from anmasand puesin gras per day.
lf   D.anvat birthffg) - Aborage miser of Years of life recoin-               Death rate   the     a   -1 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
ing at Dr;      -lye.-year averages snding in 1960, 1970 end                          1h yeari,to 0chidren in this age group; suggested an an indicator
197  fr  deop      ngcun tres.                                                        of malnutrition.
G-s:r~pr,ni~, mt.- Aerage nunber of live daughters a woean will
hea  inIh tiiiprdiuctive period if she experiences preeant age-                     Education
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Aju=sted enrnllnent rtio - pri ma      hoel .-.Earol.lnent of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for deloping Co     tres                                                pecnaeSfp.uy           colag      ouaIon     Includes children aged
oPculation growth rate (%-toa -3      Co,ed annual growth rates of mid-                 6-11 yearn but adjusted for different lengths of pr1mKry education;
year population for 1950-60, 196070, and 1960 to msem   recent year.                  for Countries with universal education, wnrollnont may exceed 100%
Population growth rate CE    - urban - COMPutead like growth rate of total              since ea-e pupils are belmow  r above the official school age.
population; different definitions of urban armas may affect ceepara-               AuseenUsnt rto --secndary ocisel - Computed as above; sec-
isliy o daa uongcoutries.                                                      tnar    edu    tinrequires at Inst four years of approved pricory
Erba   p.laton   o  total)  Ratio of urban to total population; dir-              Instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher trinning instruc-
feroni definitions of urban arean may effec t comparability of dtot                  tions for pupiln of 12 in 17 yeraronf age; Correspondence courses are
onsong countries.                                                                     generally excluded.
!4sevtur-t"    ercet    -childron (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years ),            earsof schooling oro,id3Td (firtoand second lIn  l)- Total years of
and rec hirleA t65 ir and oner) as percentages, of mid-year population,               schoolng;   t seodr!     lvl    octoa     isrrie       o    e  atal
Aod,necratio - Ratio of popol.tiom  under 15 end 65 and over to.                or completely excluded.
gasllt  i73T5hrough i4.                                                        Vocational enr-len (of secnnduy)         Vo-atInna1 institutions include
moon -deenecy ratio  - Raio nf posuls-ino under 15 end 65 and over                 techical   sdstial ooter       p   rar  witch operate independently
to t he lab1or frce in age trmp of 15-64. years.                                      or as departments of seondary; institutioto.
Easily plosninge - arceotors cmlaia thou) - Cumulative numler of                      Adult literacy rute,.J  - Lateruto adults (able to read and write) no
0-ceptors of birth-control. devices under auspices of national fonily                 percentage nf totl adult population gagd IS yours and over.
planning program since inception.
EaiyPnin            'r (9 of mried womne) - percentages of married                     osn
-mnenof child-bca ring ago  1-. years) who use birth-control de-                    Pesnsn    r room (avorace) - Average number of perioneu   per room in on-
vices to alt nurried women in seam age group.                                         copied connentional duelliogs in urbao arms; dwellings exclude non-
permsaneot strsutwen and unoccupied ports..
101aR  thOcupid                                                           bmlin-    wtt~                )- Occupied nonventional
MET  fwce (      g nd)- llsnomuically a-live psrson-, incluiding                Abefllingsin Vurb.nas. drof  m'iff.H      t inoide or outside piped
arced forcn and un ClaIiied bit excluding housewives, students, etc.;                 water facilities an percentage of all occupied dwellings.
deficit nons in various countries are not, comparable.                              Access c   electrici ty _(9 of all duelnutso) - Convantional d.ollings
Labor force in aerivult.re J%) - Agriculit.al labor force (in farming,                  with ectricty in livig quartero as perccent of total dwellings
forstr, hntig ad fishing) as percematoe of total labcr force.                    in urban and rual Kreas.
tinettuuioredfocre) - Unemployed are usually defined as persans                 RurlIelinss c     nneted to electricItyC)- Computed us ahoye for
who are abl.n ir rulluingto take a Job, out of a job en a given day,ruadwligony
remained out of a job, and seeking sorb for a specified minlstun
period not exceeding one week; coy net be comparable betwees noun-ti
tries Jun tn different definitions of unemployed and source of data,               Uaig7ec-vers.Ipor thou Vp) - All types of receivers for radio brood-
e.g. , emPloyment Office statistics, ample surveys, Compulsory unme-                  casts to geneal public per thousand of population; excludes unit-
ploy,tant insu..ance.                                                                 cenaed receivers In countries asd in years idian regintration & radio
aete was in effect; data for recent yerar may not he comiparable since
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in coo  asd                    moast nountries abolished licansing.
kind) received by ri chest SE. richest. 2%, poorest 1'tE, and poorest                              (prtouPp       - Passenger Cars comprise motor cars 0mat-
4'tE of house.holds.                                                                NF enlsTa        ightjlpison.; excludes asbu1ancen, hearses and mili-
tary ve' L,es.
Ilistrnbutiuo of-o d  -wnerhip -   ehrecage nflendowuda,ywealh-                                                    - A,tual consumption of industrial, cn-im
inst  09 ed pnnenc.1fl9  f led ooern.                                         brci     pb     an  private electricity in kilowatt hours per cPpita;
generally base d on produ,tlion data, without allowance for losses In
isi-th end Hutritioc                                                                    gride but allowing for imports and eaporto of alectricily.
Population per ohyslica    - Population divided by number of practicing               Newsprint (kg/yr ber nun) - Per capita annual Censumption in bilogramn
plqcslcians qualified f,o. o medical -nhou1 at university level,                      estimated frm. domestic prudrtion pluo net Imports of n,.sp-int.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (% irn co'stAnt prices)
US$ Mln.       %                      1960-65     1965-70     1970-7L:   1575
GNP at Market Prices          9,217      100.0                      6.9         5.6         8.7       1.3
Gross Domestic Investment     2,047       22.1                       9.4        7.7        15.3     -15.0
Gross National Saving         1,679       18.2                      11.8        7.9        11.2     -20.2
Current Account Balance       -266        -2.9
Exports of Goods, NFS         4,008       43.3                      4.1         6.5         7.8     -1 .0
Imports of Goods, NFS        4,013        43.4                      3.3         5.7        12.1     -18.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1970
Value Added                 Labor Force1/                 V. A. Per Worker
US$ aLn.      %                Mln.       %                  iUS $
Agriculture                     823      29.7               1.5      46.9                  549         54.4
Industry                        760      27.5               0.5      15.6                1,520        149.5
Services                      1,184      42.8               1.0      31.3                1,184        116.4
Total/Average          -                           -
2,767    100.0                3.2     1                    1,017      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                           Central Oovernment
(M$ Mln.          % Of GDPM ( 4 Mln.)                          % of ODP
1975         1975      1972-74                1975                  1972__74
Current Receipts                  5,611       27.5        26.4                 4,815      23.6          22.1
Current Expenditure               5 684       27.8        24.6                 4 950      24.2          21 3
Current Surplus                     -73                    1.8                            -0.7           0.77
Capital Expenditures              2,749       13.5        11.3                 1,073       5.3           5.:1
External Assistance (net)            16        0.1         0.2                    32       0.2           0.3
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES                1969        1970        1971        1972       1973        19774
TfTllion M$ outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                  3,724       4,130       4,666       5,771       7,574       8,729
Bank Credit to Public Sector             909         833       1,045       1,186      1,375        1,746
Bank Credit to Private Sector          1,841       2,246       2,572       3,o14      4,586        5,278
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP       33.1        35.0        37.6        43.7       46.1         43.2
General Price Index (1963 - 100)        92.3       100.0       101.6       104.8      115.9        136.0
Annual Parcentage Changes ins
General Price Index                     -0.4         1.9         1.6        3.2        +10.6        17.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector             6.4        -8.4        25.5        13.5       15.9         27.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector            9.0        21.9        14.6        17.2       52.2         15.1
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
V Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Dased on unrevised GDP (Statistical Appendix Table 2.1, Series 1) for comparability.
not available
.not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADB PAD4ETNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974     1975                                              US $_Mln m
(US $ Million)
Exports of Goods, NFS        3,145    4,417    4,008
Imports of Goods, NFS        2,713    14,401   4,013
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    T'         Th       _                Rabber                           1,021    28.5
Tin                                502    ]I.4.
Interest Paymenti; (net)       _40      -43      -52               Timber                             566    15.
Palm Oil                           389    10.8
Other Factor Payments (net)   -230     -206     -157               Petroleum                          239     6.7
Net Transfers                 - 62     - 58      -52               All Other Cwmsodities              870     212
Balance on Current Account     100     _y8      _266                    Total                       3,587   100,0
Direct Foreign Investment      194      346      223             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1974
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                55      104      465                                                      US $ Mln
Amortization  1/            _21      _S2     ...10L)
Subtotal                     31       52      361               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed            87 3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)          ( -89     ( 79    (-248               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other Items n.e.i                                     ((_2/
Increase in Reserves (+)       236      185       70             DEBT-SERVIC, RATIO for 1975-
Net Reserves   (end year)    1,356    1,558    1,643               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed           3.9
Non-Guararateed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                         Total Outstanding & Disbursed           3.9
Imports                      161      417      1479
of which: Petroleum         49      215
Exports                       152      344      347
of which: Petroleum        110      280                IBRD/IDA LENDING  (ApEri.L 30 1976,) (US$ million):
IBRD
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding & Disbursed             274.6
Through     1971             June 21, 1973 - May 31, 1974    Undisbursed                         303.5
US $ 1.00 = M$3.0fi           US1.00 -     M2.40_            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed       578.1
r-i $ 1.00 = US $0 33         NM.On - T TSSt2
1972 - Februarv 13, 1973     June 1, 1974 - Julv 31, 197q
[S i 1.00 = My2               US$1.O0    M$2.3--
*     lt0 =I no  .3           MLO - US$D143
Felhruprvy 14 - June 21, 1973  Aug 1, 1975 - Dec. 31, 1975
TS $ 1.00  =M$5h              us  .00    MV.50
i4 $ 1 .00 =US$).39           M$.OO    = US$0.40
Since Jan. 1, 1976
US$1.00 = ;M$2.5?
M$1.00 = US$0.39
1/ 1973-7L4 outstanding debt figures are obtained from IBRD debt date and are not comparable with balance of payments di4ta
for 1970-74, which were obtained from Malaysian sources. The public debt estimates presented above exclude a
115 732 7tillion publicly -guaranteed loan for the i4alaysian International Shipping Corporation which was committed 4n 1974.
/ Ratio of deht service to excports of goods and non-factor services
.not available
not applicable



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF JULY 31, 1976)
Amount in
US$ million
Loan                                                                   (Less Cancellations)
Number   Year      Borrower                    Purpose                 Bank     Undisbursed
Eleven Loans fully disbursed                                           209.2-
599     1969     Malaysia                 Education (I)                8.8         2.6
672     1970     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             13.0         1.1
700     1970     National Electricity
Board                  Power (V)                   20.0         0.6
753     1971     Malaysia                 Telecommunications (II)     18.7         3.5
774     1971     Sabah Ports Authority    Ports                       16.1         2.5
799     1972     Malayan Railway
Administration         Railroad                    16.0         1.4
810     1972     Malaysia                 Education (II)              15.5        12.5
851     1972     Malaysia                 Urban Transport (I)         16.0         3.7
880     1973     Malaysia                 Population                   5.0         4.8
885     1973     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             25.0        16.8
908     1973     Malaysia                 Water Supply (II)           13.5         4.9
931     1973     Malaysia                 Highway (II)                19.5        10.7
967     1974     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             40.0        33.7
973     1974     Malaysia                 Agricultural Development    45.0        43.5
974     1974     Malaysia                 Education (III)             19.0        18.9
1031     1974     National Electricity
Board                  Power (VI)                 43.3         32.7
1044     1974     Malaysia                 Land Settlement             36.0        34.3
1115     1975     Malaysia                 Agricultural Research
and Extension            28.5        28.5
1178     1975     National Electricity
Board                  Power (VII)                35.0         34.9
Total effective commitment                         643.1
of which has been repaid                          60.9
Total now outstanding/                              582.2
Amount sold                          18.0
of which has been repaid           11.8             6.2
Total effective loans now
held by Bank                                     576.0
Total undisbursed                                               291.6
/1  In addition, Malaysia is Guarantor for Loan 405-MA of February 26, 1965,
to the Public Utilities Board in Singapore (amount being held by the Bank
as of July 31, 1976 - US$4.4 million).
/2  Loan 1213-4A (Kuala Lumpur Sewerage; US$21.5 million) and Loan 1214-MA
(Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport; US$26.0 million) were signed on
March 11, 1976, and Loan 1294-MA (North Kelantan Rural Development;
US$21.0 million) was signed on July 21, 1976, but they were not effective
yet as of August 15, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF JULY 31, 1976)
Type of             Amount in US$ Million
Year                                Business        Loan        Equity       Total
1964   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance         Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                 Financing         -         1.31          1.31
1966   Tasek Cement Ltd.           Cement           1.28        0.28         1.56
1968   Malayawata Steel Ltd.       Steel            2.45        1.01         3.46
1969   Malayawata Steel Ltd.       Steel             -          0.23         0.23
1970   India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.               Textiles         1.25       0.25          1.50
1974   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance         Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                 Financing         -         0.63          0.63
Total gross commitments                      4.98       3.71          8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs           3.48       3.46          6.94
Total investments now held by IFC            1.50       0.25          1.75
Total undisbursed



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan No. 672   Second Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project; US$13.0
Million Loan of May 20, 1970; Effective Date: August 20,
1970; Closing Date: May 31, 1977
Loan No. 885   Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;    US$25.0
Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective Date: June 22,
1973; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The projects (including the First Jengka Triangle Land Settlement
Project which has been completed) consist of clearing the forest, planting
62,000 acres of oil palm and 35,000 acres of rubber, and settling 10,000
families in the Jengka Triangle (State of Pahang). The Federal Land Devel-
op ment Authority (FELDA), responsible for the execution of the projects,
operates efficiently, keeping high standards of planting and maintenance.
Under the Second Jengka Triangle Project, the development of community
facilities and housing is proceeding satisfactorily although slightly
behind appraisal schedule. So far, approximately 2,800 housing unito have
been completed (target 2,965). About 2,000 of them are now occupied by the
settlers and 20,360 acres have been allocated to them. The palm oil mill
under Scheme 9 has been completed, but the delays in its completion have
caused temporary harvest cut-backs and reduced the earnings of the settlers.
Under the Third Jengka Triangle Project, the clearing has been completed and
planting is progressing satisfactorily. Infrastructure and village develop-
ment are behind schedule and settlement will also be delayed. Standards of
agricultural development are satisfactory, except for the clearing and
planting problems encountered in Scheme 17 and the drainage problems in
Scheme 23.
Loan No. 967   Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 65,000
acres of oil palm and settling 4,400 families in the State of Johore.
Agricultural development is progressing satisfactorily in line with the
appraisal estimates. In order to speed up settlement, the construction of
access roads and the village road network will be done under contract.
Damage to the planted areas, mainly by elephants and wild boar, is increas-
ing, but measures to counter future damage are being considered.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project, implemented by FELDA, consists of planting 55,000
acres of oil palm, settling 3,400 families, and constructing two palm oil
mills. Agricultural development is progressing satisfactorily. However,



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
the Pahang Tenggara Development Authority is still understaffed, and con-
sequently settlement has been delayed. FELDA has requested the construction
of three small-scale palm oil mills instead of the two larger mills envisaged
in the appraisal report. The feasibility of this proposal is currently under
consideration.
Loan No. 973   Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0
Million Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes the construction of main and feeder drains,
coastal embankments, and tidal gates to improve drainage in an area of 134,000
hectares (330,000 acres) in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an inte-
grated agricultural development program aimed at changing cropping patterns to
improve farm incomes, opening up 24,000 hectares of new land, establishing
farmers' development centers and improving research, extension and crop process-
ing. A Project Division has been set up in the Ministry of Agriculture to
direct and coordinate the various agencies involved in project execution, to
monitor and evaluate project progress, and to prepare a feasibility study 'or
a second stage project. Because of the need to re-evaluate some of the design
criteria and the delays in survey contracts and the appointment of engineering
staff, construction is about 18 months behind schedule. The poor coordination
among the various agencies involved and the lack of basic agricultural data
for planning purposes have contributed to the current problems.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$28.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project aims at strengthening the institutional framework for
agricultural research through providing the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute (MARDI) with: inter-
nationally recruited specialists for research, fellowships for post-graduate
staff training, laboratories, workshops, offices, storage facilities and related
equipment, imported breeds of farm animals, and periodic monitoring of the
ongoing research programs. An Extension Liaison Unit has been established and
a detailed program of implementation has been compiled, but, due to the lack
of coordination among various governmental agencies, the actual implementation
of the project has been delayed.
Loan No. 700   Fifth Power Project; US$20.0 Million Loan of July 16, 1970;
Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: January 31,
1977
The project (the third stage extension of the Port Dickson Thermal
Power Station; three 120 MW units) was about 82 percent complete at the end of
June 1976. No. 5 Unit was commissioned on February 28, 1976, about 22 months
behind schedule. No. 6 and No. 7 Units are now scheduled for commissioning
by August 1976 and February 1977 respectively. The Government of Malaysia
allowed the National Electricity Board to apply the fuel surcharge to commercial



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
and industrial consumers as of March 15, 1975. Energy sales increased by
11.3 percent in FY74 and by 13.7 percent in FY75. The rate of return was
10.2 percent for FY74 and 8.2 percent for FY75.
Loan No. 1031 Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 Million Loan of July 25, 1974;
Effective Date: October 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project consists of installing the transmission lines required
for the Temengor Hydroelectric Power Station and for interconnecting the
southern peninsular transmission system. Except for the Malacca-Kluang-Scudai
transmission lines, most of the procurement has been completed and the imple-
mentation of the project is on schedule.
Loan No. 1178   Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The project consists of the final extension of the Prai Thermal
Power Station (three 120 MW units), expansion of the transmission and distri-
bution systems, and a rural electrification study. Project implementation
is on schedule.
Loan No. 753    Second Telecommunications Pro-ject; US$18.7 Million Loan of
June 21, 1971; Effective Date: August 18, 1971; Closing
Date: February 28, 1977
After initial delays in procurement, obtaining sites and erecting
buildings, the Telecommunications Department of Malaysia (TDM) has made
good progress in carrying out the project. The original project targets for
December 31, 1975 with respect to the expansion of the local telephone, telex
and long-distance services were generally met although there were two excep-
tions: first, the number of additional connections did not reach the target of
80,000 lines until early 1976, and second, due to delays in site acquisition
and buildings, two of the microwave routes will be completed only in mid-1977.
Upon request from the Government, the Closing Date was extended from June 30,
1976 to February 28, 1977. The reorganization of TDM has been completed and
it is now operating satisfactorily. TDM's financial results for the 1971-73
period were very satisfactory with rates of return of about 16 percent as com-
pared with the appraisal estimates of about 10 percent and the loan covenant
of 8 percent. The operating ratio has been good (between 60 and 64 percent)
and TDM's self-financing has been high.
Loan No. 908    Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project consists of the expansion of facilities to provide
piped water to parts of Kuala Lumpur and Klang Valley. The facilities



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
include an earth dam on the Langat River which will form a reservoir to regu-
late the river flow.  When field surveys were made for the detailed design,
the consultants found that the height of the dam originalLy planned (175
feet) had to be raised by 9 feet. The completion of the dam, but not the
other components of the project, is expected to be delayed by about one year
to late 1978. The project cost is presently estimated at about 45 percent
more than the appraisal estimate due to the increased cost of the dam and the
adoption of a higher contingency allowance for idflation. However, no
difficulties are foreseen in raising the additional funds.
Loan No. 774    Sabah Ports Projqgt; US$16.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: August 24, 1971; Closing Date: December 31,
1976
All civil works were completed by the end of 1975 except for a new
headquarters building in Kota Kinabalu and the port administration building at
Sandakan. The total cost of the project will be about US$38.0 million,
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$22.1 million. The financial
position, management, and operational procedures of the Sabah Ports Authority
are satisfactory. Studies of additional port works proposed for Tawau and
Sapangar Bay are expected to be available for review late in 1976,
Loan No. 799   Railway Project; US$16.( Million Loan of February 11, 1972;
Effective Date: April 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project includes the purchase and improvement of locomotives,
rolling stock, workshops and track. The implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule due to delays in the ordering and delivery of materials, and
slow progress on some of the works, especially the Port Dickson line and
track relaying. The Port Dickson line is now expected to be completed by the
end of March 1977. All the equipment and materials have now been received
except for 24 freight cars. The overall cost of the investment plan (1971-75)
taking into account the spillover into 1976 and 1977 is not expected to
exceed the appraisal estimate of M$129 million. A new General Manager with
initiative and drive has been appointed and there is evidence that he has
taken steps to improve the operations of the railway particularly in the
commercial and marketing fields. Passenger traffic during 1975 was 50
percent higher than the appraisal forecast, but freight traffic continued to
decrease (16 percent from 1974 level), mainly caused by the inadequacy of
motive power due to the large number of locomotives under repair. Revised
tariffs for passenger and freight traffic to yield additional revenues have
been brought into effect from January 1976 (passenger) and April 1976
(freight). Even so, it is unlikely that theltarget of financial viability
and a 2 percent return on investment will be reached for some years.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan No. 851   Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$16.0 Million Loan
of July 20, 1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972;
Closing Date: April 30, 1977
The project is designed to improve the transport facilities between
Kuala Lumpur and the adjacent town of Petaling Jaya. It consists of the
improvement of about six miles of Federal Route 2, including detailed engi-
neering, widening of the road, construction of interchanges and cycle tracks,
and relocation of services. Civil works are four to six months behind sche-
dule due to initial shortcomings in the contractor's project management and
difficulties in obtaining steel and cement. These problems have since been
overcome, but the contractor is now experiencing financial difficulties as a
result of the low tender price which did not allow for the subsequent rapid
inflation. The project also includes a transport study for metropolitan Kuala
Lumpur (completed), a national road maintenance study (draft final report
completed), and detailed engineering of about 137 miles of Federal Route I
(completed).
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25 1973; Closing Date:
August 31, 1977
Overall progress on the four construction contracts already awarded
is about 12 months behind schedule. Three of these contracts were awarded
shortly before the increase in oil prices in 1973, but a period of uncertain
prices and shortages of some materials and equipment followed and it took the
contractors more time to mobilize than previously envisaged. Progress on all
contracts was affected by delays in: land acquisition, eviction of squatters
from the right-of-way, granting of licenses by the Selangor State Government
to operate quarries, and approval of work permits for the expatriate staff.
Poor management in the case of some of the contractors also contributed
to slow progress. Although some measures have been taken to remedy these
deficiencies, progress of construction is still well below the revised target.
The performance of one of the contractors has been so unsatisfactory that in
mid-January 1976 the consultants recommended that the Government terminate
his contract. However, a decision on this recommendation is still pending.
The fifth and last contract has recently been awarded. Consulting services
for various studies and detailed engineering are satisfactory and on schedule.
An extension of the Closing Date by two years to August 31, 1979 will be
necessary. Construction costs have escalated sharply because of the rapid
inflation and the total project cost is now estimated to be US$50.0 million
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$37.0 million. The disbursement
rate for the road component was reduced from 55 percent to 40 percent of
actual expenditures on January 1, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
Loan No. 599    Education Project; US$8.8 Million Loan of May 23, 1969;
Effective Date: September 16, 1969; Closing Date: March 31,
1977
The project aims at improving Malaysia's technical, vocational, and
agricultural education. Construction of 20 of the 21 project institutions has
been completed and they are in full operation. The quality of the completed
buildings is satisfactory. Project implementation is about twenty seven
months behind schedule because an alternate site had to be selected for one
agricultural school and subsequent flooding further delayed its construction,
which is now expected to be completed in late 1976. Deliveries of furniture
and equipment to the project schools are near completion except for the
agricultural school. The 20 project schools now in operation are functioning
satisfactorily. Although no final evaluation has yet been made, the schools
appear to have achieved low dropout rates and high pass rates. The total
project cost is expected to be about US$1.7 million lower than the original
estimate.  US$700,000 of this amount has been transferred to the Second
Education Project, and the Government is expected to make another proposal for
the use of the remaaining funds.
Loan No. 810    Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972: Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1977
The project is financing the establishment of a curriculum develop-
ment center, science schools for the University of Penang, vocational schools,
and an educational television system. Implementation has improved but is
still about 14 months behind schedule mainly due to delays in the appointment
of consultant architects for the Science University, the approval of the cam-
pus plan by the University, and the preparation of documents by the Public
Works Department. All civil works contracts have been awarded and construc-
tion is scheduled to be completed by late-1977. The recent estimate of the
project cost is about 40 percent above the appraisal estimate. The Govern-
ment is aware of this cost overrun and is prepared to finance it. Progress
on equipment procurement is satisfactory.
Loan No. 974    Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1980
The project assists the Government to develop technical training,
pre-service teacher training, and East Malaysia educational television system.
Implementation is about seven months behind schedule due to delays in the
selection of sites for the Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs), but all sites
have now been acquired. Contracts have been awarded for eight of the thirteen
project institutions and tender documents are being prepared for the remaining
five. The construction of seven schools began in early 1976. Progress on
civil works is satisfactory, but procurement of equipment for Kuantan Poly-
technic is behind schedule. The estimated total project cost remains the



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
same as the appraisal estimate. Disbursement is about one year behind sched-
ule partly because of delays in procurement of equipment but should improve
in 1977. The Project Unit is functioning satisfactorily.
Loan No. 880   Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9, 1973;
Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date: September 30,
1978
The progress on the civil works component has been outstanding over
the past 12 months compared with the progress observed earlier. Four build-
ings are IIow completed and 129 more are under construction. A Senior Research
Advisor has been appointed and the National Family Planning Board (NFPB) is
taking action to set up a computerized management information system. The
program performance in the current year is also expected to be better than in
the last five years. Recently, the Prime Minister expressed concern over the
conditions in urban slums and asked the NFPB to intensify its efforts to
improve the situation. On the whole, the Prime Minister's interest has been
taken as an indication of political commitment to the program and is expected
to give impetus to NFPB's activities.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 pages
MALAYSIA - FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Malaysia
Amount:               US$35.0 million
Terms:                 17 years, including three and a half (3-1/2) years
of grace, with interest at 8.90 percent per annum.
Project
Description:         (a)  The construction of and equipment for:
- 150 primary schools and four education
resource centers under the Ministry
of Education;
- three industrial training institutes under the
Ministry of Labor and Manpower;
- three community service centers under the
Ministry of Agriculture;
(b) the expansion or replacement of:
- about 700 primary schools and one teacher
training college under the Ministry of
Education;
- two industrial training institutes under the
Ministry of Labor and Manpower;
(c) a study of the community education system in
preparation for its expansion and improvement; and
(d) technical assistance for the programs above and
for the establishment of the mechanisms and pro-
cedures in the Ministry of Education for school
mapping and planning.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 pages
Project Costs:         The table below summarizes the costs of the project:
M$ (Million)                 US$ (Million)
Project Item Groups     Local     Foreign    Total    Local     Foreign    Total
Ministry of Education
Primary Schools (850)   141.13     44.43     185.56    54.69     17.22      71.91
Teacher Training
College (1)              5.22      2.02       7.24     2.03      0.78      2.81
Education Resource
Centers (4)              2.66      1.68       4.34     1.03      0.65       1.68
Technical Assistance      0.10      0.92       1.02     0.04      0.36       0.40
Sub Total          149.11    49.05      198.16   57.79      19.01     76.80
Ministry of Labor and
Manpower
New Industrial Training
Institutes (ITIs) (3)    8.84      6.42      15.26    3.42       2.49      5.91
Expansion of ITIs (2)     3.83      5.86       9.69     1.49      2.27      3.76
Technical Assistance      0.36      3.27       3.63     0.14      1.27       1.41
Sub Total           13.03    15.55       28.58    5.05       6.03     11.08
Ministry of Agricul-
ture
Community Service
Centers (3)             0.26      0.15       0.41     0.10      0.06      0.16
Technical Assistance      0.07      0.62       0.69     0.03      0.24      0.27
Sub Total             0.33     0.77        1.10    0.13       0.30      0.43
Total Base Cost         162.47     65.37     227.84    62.97     25.34     88.31
Contingencies
Physical                 19.35      6.63      25.98     7.50      2.57      10.07
Price                    48.91     18.71      67.62    18.96      7.25      26.21
Total Contingencies      68.26     25.34      93.60    26.46      9.82     36.28
Total Project Cost      230.73     90.71     321.44    89.43     35.16     124.59



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 pages
Financing Plan:       The proposed loan of US$35.0 million would finance
the foreign exchange cost, or about 28 percent of the
total project cost.  The Government's contribution would
amount to about US$89.6 million.
Estimated
Disbursements:                             (US$ Million)
Bank FY    1977   1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
Cumulative  0.0   1.0    9.0  20.0  33.0  35.0
Procurement:          Contracts for civil works and furniture would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following
domestic advertising and local procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. Foreign contractors would be allowed to
participate. Prior Bank approval would be required for
all civil works contracts except those for the project
primary schools. Equipment contracts over US$100,000
equivalent would be awarded on the basis of int rna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. In bid comparison, domestic manufacturers
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent
over the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the
existing customs duty, whichever is less. Direct
government imports are exempt from customs duties and
taxes. Equipment purchases which cannot reasonably be
grouped to form contracts of at least US$100,000 equiva-
lent could be awarded without prior Bank approval on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally follow-
ing government procedures which are satisfactory to the
Bank. In addition, off-the-shelf items, not exceeding
US$10,000 in each contract and aggregating a total of
less than US$250,000 equivalent, could be purchased on
the basis of a minimum of three quotations. Books would
be purchased in accordance with the normal procedures of
the Borrower.
Technical
Assistance:         A total of 22.5 man-years of specialist services and
70.0 man-years of fellowships would be provided under
the proposed project. The technical assistance financed
under the loan would be divided as follows:
(a) Ministry of Education: one man-year of specialist
services for training educational planners in
school mapping and 40 man-years of fellowships
for the teachers and planners;



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 pages
(b) Ministry of Labor and Manpower: 19 man-years
of specialist services for establishing new ITIs
and their courses, training the instructors and
setting the standards, and 30 man-years of fel-
lowships for the instructors.
(c) Ministry of Agriculture: 2.5 man-years of
specialist services for community education
study and system development.
Appraisal
Report:              1161b-MA dated September 9, 1976.



MALAYS IA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
IBRD 12141
10D°                    103°                     1067o                  1011°                    7°o 1182                                                           APRIL 197
PRIMARY SCHOOLS   NEW INDUSTRIAL TRAINING INSTITUTES     , MAIN ROADS
0 A-101                   0 D-101                 - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\n HAILAN                                             9 A-102                    0 D 102                --   STATE BOUNDARIES           ao.0
<   >  @ A-103            * D0103
r A-104         EXTENSION TO EXISTING INDUSTRIAL
TRAINING CENTERS
0A-105
47&1-<7   X _ t Bh.nU      6) A-IOE0 E&101
A-107                                                                 KOt   .0' 
Ao 3 }; fX     f'< 102       TrOOO7 A-l100B                                0 E-102                                       Kts.,;                  )   dkn(
- gA -,'t I(   7D     2 ADA-1  102       TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE                                                            J 3
E hiooI D  C10t.1a wr nynu   EDUCATION RESOURCE CENTERS  0  100   200         200                       0BiogI    M r
T.i .1    -                                   AC-A0lMILES                                                                    -
>pbh  -.         7PENINSULAR            AC-101                                                        BRUNEI/ KISLwK.
MALAYSIA             A C-102             0      100    200    300     480 0I\ un
A C-103                       KILOMETERS            r              \
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                      iAna* C         104 <^ 
*Aoa03 -ft-
--  T..o.000                            C-                   ~~~~~~~~~SABAH AND SARAWAK 
30      Kool. Lu, or y~                                                                                            IR nner,  EA RWAf  J K
g 9j\> >bl:101    /           oB-I                                           (-                                                                  -'*l
0 b         <      ioh+;3SNAOE/t°-io                                                   r~i                   - J-- --vYiOpn
sUMAThIEA              Johor  3<~   0/OR                                                             r---                                    )Th| .o's \.r\ rn
il X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KALiMANTAN                                                                    by014 1-.10Ž
1 0 0 L \  1 5 1 30 5   i S      l 0f                     1 0 9w                  1 1 2 0   W o6                        _ E ,Q        d o n T h Ur liE 0
l00\  1?201                         I'                                             I                   \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-~~~~~~~d.fl   (  (~~~~~~~~~~Phlpp.



