CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1329-MA
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Education Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 18, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 1976, between MALAYSIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECON-
STRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General. Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Units" means the two project units in the Bor-
rower's MOE and MOLM, respectively, referred to in Section 3.03
of this Agreement;
(b) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
(c) "MOLM" means the Borrower's Ministry of Labor and Man-
power;
(d) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
and


﻿-3-
(e) "Project States" means the seven States of the Borrower
included in the Project, namely, Kedah, Kelantan, Pahang, Perak,
Sabah, Saravak and Trengganu, and "Project State" means any one
of the Project States.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-5-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and ninety hundredths per cent (8.90%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
MOA and the Project Units with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering, financial
and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other -Vesources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall employ or engage qualified and experienced archi-
tectural and engineering consultants in order to assist the Bor-
rover in designing, preparing contract documents for and super-
vising construction of the teacher training college, education
resource centers and one industrial training institute included
in the Project and to assist in the engineering aspects of the
remaining industrial training institutes and large primary schools
in Sabah included in the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain the Project Units
established in MDE and MOLM with such staff functions and respon-
sibilities as described in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity


﻿-7-
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
promptly upon their preparation: (i) for its information, the pro-
posed annual primary school construction programs indicating dis-
tribution of facilities by and within each Project State with sup-
porting reasons, and (ii) for its review, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions there-
to, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire not later than


﻿-8-
six months prior to the scheduled date for the commencement of
construction of each institution included in the Project all such
land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of said institutions and shall inform
the Bank, if and when requested by the Bank, that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall appoint qualified, experi-
enced and competent staff to such positions as are described in
paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and to additional
positions required to implement the Project in accordance with
a timetable acceptable to the Bank.


﻿9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 10 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall continue to develop and
collect information on a set of educational indicators for each
of the Project States and establish school mapping and planning
procedures to assist MOE in allocating educational resources
within   t among the Project States.
Section hL..-4 (a) The Borrower shall operate, or cause to be
operated, the educational institutions and facilities included in
the Project in accordance with sound administrative practice and
with due regard to efficiency.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower shall at all times employ, or cause to be
employed, qualified administrators and teachers in adequate numbers
to staff the educational institutions included in the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) adequately maintain or
cause to be maintained the buildings, furniture and equipment of
the educational institutions included in the Project and make or
cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in
accordance with sound technical and administrative practices; and
(ii) provide or cause to be provided, as and when needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
foregoing.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date February 23, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance or Deputy Minister of
Finance of the Borrower or such other person or persons as the
Minister of Finance shall appoint in writing is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
Kuala Lumpur 01-01
Malaysia
Cable address:
TREASURY
Kuala Lumpur
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United Vtates of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
MALAYSIA
By /s/ Zain Azraai
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.   MOE
(1) Civil works,          18,300,000         25%
furniture and
professional
services
(2) Instructional          2,200,000
equipment
(a) Directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(b) Manufac-                            100% of local
tured lo-                          expenditures
cally                              (ex-factory)
(c) Imported                            70%
and pro-
cured lo-
cally
(3) Technical                400,000         100%
training and
specialist
services


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
II. MOLM
(4) Civil works,           1,440,000         25%
furniture and
professional
services
(5) Instructional          3,520,000
equipment
(a) Directly                            100% of foreign
imported                           expenditures
(b) Manufac-                            100% of local
tured lo-                          expenditures
cally                              (ex-factory)
(c) Imported                            70%
and pro-
cured lo-
cally
(6) Technical              1,400,000         100%
training and
specialist
services
III. MOA
(7) Civil works,              30,000         25%
furniture and
professional
services
(8) Instructional             4o,ooo
equipment
(a) Directly                            100% of foreigr
imported                           expenditures


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(b) Manufac-                            100% of local
tured lo-                          expenditures
cally                              (ex-factory)
(c) Imported                            70%
and pro-
cured lo-
cally
(9) Technical                270,000         100%
training and
specialist
services
IV. Unallocated                 7,400,000
TOTAL      35,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for gods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrover.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by. or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any iter to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   I Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;


﻿- 19 -
(b) for any purpose under Category I unless the Bank shall
have received evidence satisfactory to it that one full-time project
architect has been designated to the MOE Project Unit;
(c) in respect of expenditures in any Project State related
to the primary school component under Category I unless the Bank
shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that such State
has created a position of the State Assistant Development Officer
for Education;
(d) in respect of expenditures in the State of Sabah related
to the primary school component under Category I unless the Bank
shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that:
(i) a position of an Assistant for Development to the
Resident Education Officer in each of the five
Residencies in Sabah has been created; and
(ii) a Residency Project Coordinator in each of the
five Residencies in Sabah has been designated;
(e) in respect of expenditures in the State of Saravak re-
lated to the primary school component under Category I unless the
Bank shall have received evidence satisfactory to it that:
(i) a position of an Assistant for Development to the
Division Education Officer in each of the seven
Divisions in Sarawak has been created; and


﻿- 20 -
(ii) a Division Project Coordinator in each of the
seven Divisions in Sarawak has been designated;
and
(f) for any purpose under Category II unless the Bank shall
have received evidence satisfactory to it that the positions of
an Architect or Engineer and a Procurement Officer have been cre-
ated.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 21 -
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will mainly support the Borrower's five-year
primary school construction program in the Project States. The
program is designed to improve the quality of primary schooling and
to redress existing imbalances in the provision of primary school
education. The Project will also assist in the further expansion
and upgrading of industrial skill training. The Project consists
of providing construction, furniture and equipment for the follow-
ing institutions and related technical training and specialist
services as described in the Annex to this Schedule, as such An-
nex may be amended by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank:
Staff   Approx. Gross
No. of     Boarding Housing      Area of
Institutions   Places    Units   Construction
sq. ft.
A:   MOE
1.   Primary schools by State
Kedah                         68           -        56        888,6oo
Kelantan                      76           -         -        815,800
Pahang                        61           -         -        951,4oo
Perak                         61           -         -        849,700
Sabah                        283           -       340      1,386,300
Sarawak                      261        1,200      275      1,294,ooo
Trengganu                     38           -        32        461,700


﻿- 23 -
Staff   Approx. Gross
No. of     Boarding Housing      Area of
Institutions   Places    Units   Construction
sq. ft.
2.   Teacher Training College      1          480       25        140,000
3.   Education Resource Centers    4          160        4         82,000
B:   NOLM
1.   Industrial Training
Institutions              5       1,145       39        325,300
C:   MOA
1.   Community Service Centers     3            -        -          9,000
This Schedule may be amended with the agreement of the Bank.
* P                         e
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿-24-
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Technical Training and Specialist Services
A.   Technical Training
Area of Study                                Man-months
Educational Planning/School Mapping
for Institutions in Part A                      144
Pre-service Teacher Training for
Institutions in Part A                          192
In-service Teacher Train_g for
Institutions in Pur' A                          144
Technical/Vocational Training for
Institutions in Part B                          360
Total        84o
B.   Specialist Services
Area of Specialization                       Man-months
Educational Planning/School Mapping
for Institutions in Part A                       12
Industrial Training for Institutions
in Part B                                       228
Non-formal Education for Institutions
in Part C                                        30
Total        270
C.   Study of non-formal community education to be undertaken by
an agency such as the Malaysian Centre for Development Studies.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)
February 1, 1980                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1980                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1981                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1981                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1982                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1982                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1983                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1983                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1984                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1984                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1985                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1985                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1986                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1986                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1987                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1987                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1988                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1988                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1989                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1989                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1990                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1990                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1991                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1991                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1992                                   1,295,000
August 1, 1992                                     1,295,000
February 1, 1993                                   1,330,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           PPremium
Not more than three years
before maturity                           1.55%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                           3.15%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                           5.75%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                           7.85%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                           8.90%


﻿-27-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A. International Campetitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of all goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or less and for civil works and furniture shall be pro-
cured, after national and local advertisement, in accordance with
such normal procedures of the Borrower as are acceptable to the
Bank.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
small items of equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000
each or less and not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of
$250,000, or such other amount as may be.agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Bank, shall be purchased by direct negotiation
after at least three quotations have been obtained from local
suppliers.


﻿- 28 -
3.   Books shall be purchased in accordance with the normal pro-
cedures of the Borrower.
C. Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Malaysia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
ciearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:


﻿- 29 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Malaysia
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Malaysia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Malaysia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All       ated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselv,, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 30 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D. Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works except under
Part A.1 of the Project and for equipment and furniture estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿- 31 -
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) To conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution, a consolidated statement of bid awards indicating
the name of the related institution and of the person to whom the
award was made.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraphs,


﻿- 32 -
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Implementation
1.   MOA and the Project Units in MOE and MOLM shall be responsi-
ble for the administrative control and proper execution of the
Project, including, inter alia:
(a) the briefing and coordination of architects and engi-
neers required under the Project, including the establishment of
their terms of reference and administration of their agreements;
(b) the design of buildings in accordance with the working
papers and the preparation of construction drawings and contract
documents;
(c) the preparation of master lists of furniture and instruc-
tional equipment;
(d) all necessary steps for international and local competi-
tive bidding for construction and for instructional equipment and
for bidding for furniture, and the subsequent evaluation of bids;
(e) the over-all supervision of construction and procurement
and of installation procedures for furniture and instructional
equipment;
(f) administration of technical training and specialist
services provided under the Project;


﻿(g) submission to the Bank for its information proposed
annual primary school construction programs indicating distribu-
tion of facilities by and within the Project States;
(h) organization of training of school mapping personnel;
(i) coordination with ministries and other governmental
agencies concerned with the Project;
(j) liaison with the Bank;
(k) the maintenance of records and the furnishing of infor-
mation under Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement during the period
of implementation of the Project;
(1) the preparation of applications for withdrawals from the
Loan Account;
(m) the preparation of a comprehensive schedule as normally
used by the Borrower for setting down the planned timetable of
coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the carrying
out of the Project will be based; and
(n) the evaluation of progress made in implementing the
Project and preparation of progress reports to the Bank.
2.   In addition to above, the MOE Project Unit shall maintain a
file for each project primary school available for inspection for
Bank ,progress review missions. Each file shall include: (a) the
completed educational and architectural brief; (b) the lay-out


﻿- 35 -
plans; (c) bids received; (d) bid analysis and contract recommen-
dation and award; and (e) details of expenditures.
3.   The Borrower shall strengthen the existing MOE Project Unit
with the addition of three officers and shall designate a full-
time project architect to such Project Unit, a project coordina-
tor in each Project State and a chief for MDA community education
sub-project.
4.   The Project Unit in MOLM shall be staffed with (i) a Project
Director; (ii) an assistant to Project Director on full-time basis;
(iii) a full-time architect or engineer; and (iv) a procurement
officer and supporting staff.
5.   The Borrower shall appoint to its Public Works Department
the following staff in accordance with Section 3.07 of this Agree-
ment:
Number of Staff Positions
Peninsular
Malaysia    Sabah   Sarawak
(i) Architects                2         1        1
(ii) Senior Engineers          5         -        -
(iii) Engineers or Super-
intendents of Works      2         1        1
(iv) Technicians               2         -       -


