Docum_t of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Repoit No. P-4051-TH
REPORT AND RECOMENDATIOU
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIORAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN 'AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt85.O MILLION
TO THE
BANGCHAK PETROLETUM COMPA1Y LTD.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
BANGCHAK OIL REFINERY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
April 22, 1985
This documentsha a res idedaloulbode and may be wsed by recints only in dhe pIefor=nance of
thi officad duet. Irt co*tesis may ad othrwise be discosed witho Wodd Ba  anthsimio_.



CURBENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =         Baht (b)
$1                          B 27.0
B                 -1        $0.037
d 1. million      =         $37,037
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Thailand: October 1 to September 30
Bangchak PetroLeum Co., Ltd.:  January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I barrel (bbl) of crude
oil (0.85 Specific
gravityl34° API)             =    0.136 metric con (t)
I barrel (bbl)                   =    0.159 cubic meter (cu m)
I British Thermal Unit (BTU)    =    0.252 kilocalories (kcal)
I cubic foot (cu ft)             =    0.028 cubic meter (cu m)
1 gallon (US)                   =    3.785 liters (L)
I metric ton of crude oil        =    44.4 x 100 3TU (typical)
1 standard cubic foot
(SCF) of natural gas         =    1,000 BtU (ypical)
I ton of oil equivalent (toe)         10.415 x 10  kcal.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BCP        -   Bangchak Petroleum Company Ltd.
BOR        -   Bangchak Oil Refinery
bpcd       -   Barrels per calendar day
bpsd       -   Barrels per stream day
CEF        -   Consultant Engineering Firm
DED        -   Defense Energy Department, Ministry of Defense
DMR        -   Department of Mineral Resources
EGAT       -   Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
LPG        -   Liquified Petroleum Gas
MEA        -   Metropolitan Electricity Authority
NEA        -   National Energy Administration
NESDB      -   National Economic and Social Development Board
NPPC       -   National PetroLeum Policy Committee
PEA        -   Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT        -   Petroleum Authority of Thailand
SAL        -   Structural Adjustment Loan
SCFD       -   Standard cubic feet per day
toe        -   Ton of oil equivalent
TORC       -   Thai Oil Refinery Company
tpy        -   Tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
BANGCHAK OIL REFINERY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrc-ier:       Bang^hak Petroleum Company Ltd. (BCP)
Guarantor:       Kingdom of Thailand
Loan Amount:     US$85.0 million equivalent
Terms:           15 years including 5 years of grace at standard Bank incerest
rate.
Guarantee Fee:   lOZ of Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project supports the Government's program to
make the Bangchak Oil Refinery financially viable through
corporate and financial restructuring and physical rehabili-
tation. In order to ensure sound management of the refinery,
the Government has established BCP, a fully autonomous and
commercial company, to operate and manage the refinery. The
Government appointed a strong board of directors and a
managing director who is BCP's chief operating officer. In
addition, a management and operations team from Caltex Petro-
leum Corporation (US) was appointed for in-line positions
directly under the managing director. The proposed project
covers the physical rehabilitation of the refinery, opera-
tions and infrastructure improvement, energy conservation and
engineering and management assistance. A study will be
undertaken to determiine further modifications required to
ensure that the product mix of all refineries in Thailand
will be in balance with the projected demand profile for
petroleum products in the country.
Risks:           The project does not face any significant risks that would
impede its efficient implementation.  The technologies that
will be used are commercially proven. Comprehensive repair
and maintenance and staff training programs are provided for
in the project. Environmental safeguards have been incorpo-
rated in the project through (i) infrastructure improvements
to minimize the oil sludge being dumped into ponds, and
(ii) installation of a new sulphur plant to lower discharge
of sulphur oxide. Marketing and distribution systems in
Thailand are well-coordinated. BCP's corporate and financial
structure is sound, and-adequate meAsures are provided in the
project to maintain the company's satisfactory performance.
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Foreign       Local /a   Total
-     JUS$ miLlion equivalent -
Refinery rehabilitation                      48.1          7.6        55.7
Energy conservation                           6.7          0.6         7.3
infrastructure improvement                    5.9          2.6         8.5
Training                                      1.3          0.2         1.5
Project engineering and management           12.5           -         12.5
Operations and management assistance          4.2          0.9         5.1
Techno-economic study                         1.6          0.2         1.8
Base Cost                              80.3          12.1       92.4
Contiagencies:
PhysicaL                                   8.0           1.2         9.2
Price                                     17.5           2.1        19.6
Total Installed Cost                  105.8          15.4      121.2
Interest during construction
- Bank-financed                             10.0            -         10.0
- Other                                      11.4          1.2        12.6
Total Financing Required              127.2          16.6       143.8
Financing Plan:
US$
million           z
Long-Term Debt:
IBRD                           85.0          59.1
Suppliers' credit              30.8          21.4
Commercial banks               13.0           9.1
Total                    128.8          89.6
Equity Contributions:
Ministry of Finance             7.5            5.2
Krung Thai Bank                 7.5            5.2
Total                     15.0          10.4
Total Financing               143.8          100.0
/a   Including taxes and duties of US$8.0 million.



- iii-
Estimated Disbursements (US$ million):
Bank FY   1986    1987    1988        1989      1990
Annual                      15.0    23.9    21.8        15.9       8.4
Cumulative                  15.0    38.9    60.7        76.6      85.0
Economic Rate of Return:       28Z
Staff Appraisal Report: Report 4737-TH, dated April 15, 1985
IBRD Map No. 1735IR



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT-ON AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE BANGCHAK PETROLEUL  COMEPNY LTD.
FOR THE BANGCHAK oIL REFINERY RESTRUCT-URING PROJECT
1.        I submit the foLlowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bangchak Petroleum Company Ltd. (BCP) with trIe guarantee of the Kingdom
of Thailand for the equivalent of $85 million, to help finance the Bangchak
Oil Refinery Restructuring Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 5 years grace, at the standard variable interest rate. BCP will pay
the Government a guarantee fee equal to lOZ of the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY!'
2.        An economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a
Dynamic Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH) was issued on December 23, 1980. It
proposed a mediumrterm strategy to deal with the adjustment problems resulting
from the two oil price shocks of the 1970s. Subsequently, the Royal Thai
Government initiated a program of structural adjustmpnt policies, which the
World Bank supported with two structural adjustment loans. An economic report
entitled "Managing Public Resources for Structural Adjustment" (Report
No. 4366-TH) was issued on August 31, 1983. It reviewed progress in the
implementation of structural adjustment policies and proposed directions for
further action, especially in regard to the mobilization and management of
public resources.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has broad-
ened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by frequent
and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the 1977 general
elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater political stabil-
ity and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have continued to take place,
reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of political parties, mili-
tary and business leaders, and technocrats, which have governed the comntry
for the past five years. However, only one change in Prime Minister has
occurred during this period. General Prem Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime
Minister in March 1980 and has been successful in mobilizing support for a
major program of economic structural adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-
Year Plan, 1982-86. Senior civil servants supporting this program were given
1/   Parts I and II are substantially unchanged from the President's Report on
the Regional Cities Development Project (No. P-4010-TH), circulated under
cover of R-85-84 dated April 4, 1985, and approved by the Executive
Directors on April 23, 1985.



-2-
key positions in the puolic sector. Although there are continuing internal
debates on the details and speed of poLicy implementation, overall, a broad
pubLic consensus on national policy priorities has been maintained.
4.        National elections were held again on April 18, 1983, in which can-
didates from ten parties were elected to ParLiament.  No party secured an
outright majority, but Prime Minister Prem succeeded in forming a new four-
party coalition which includes two of the three Leading parties and has the
backing of approximately two-thirds of the eLected representatives. As part
of a gradual constitucional reform aiming at increased representative govern-
ment, transitional arrangements had been in piace for a five-year period to
permit serving military, civilian and other non-elected officials to continue
to play a stabilizing role in both the legislative and executive branches of
government through their appointment to the powerful senate and to Cabinet
posts. These transitional arrangements were allowed to lapse, curtailing the
senate's powers and prohibiting military and civilian officials from partici-
pating in the Cabinet. These changes, when combined with the current coali-
tion's diversity, and the Prime Minister's lack of an independent poLitical
power base, have made it hard to achieve a consensus on difficult economic
issues since the April 1983 election. However, the Government has endorsed
the Fifth Plan's objectives of improved economic managemenc, structural
adjustment and poverry alleviation and has moved cautiously in continued Plan
implementation. Continuation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms is
therefore expected.
Past Economic Trends
5.        Thailand's economy grew rapidly over the past two decades and devel-
oped successfulLy by most standards of international comparison. Its per
capita income growth of almost 5Z per annum during 1960-1980 was among the
highest sustained rates among developing countries. The reduction of poverty
was substantial for a country still among the lowest third of middle-income
deveLoping countries, as the overall incidence of poverty dropped from about
572 in the early 1960s to about 31Z in the mid-1970s. Despite its continuing
reliance on agriculture, Thailand experienced a far-reaching transformation of
its economic and social structure during the past two decades, with a high
growth in modern industrial and service sector activities, extension of trans-
port and communications infrastructure throughout the country, rapid modern-
ization, and a significant increase in the openness of the economy to trade
and capital flows, tourism and international labor migration. The rapid
growth in Thailand's exports played a particularly important role in stimulat-
ing aggregate demand and providing the necessary means to finance imports.
Moreover, because of this rapid export growth, the Thai debt service burden
remained moderate.
6.        However, because of its increased openness, its heavy dependence on
imported oil, and an expansionary fiscal stance in the late 1970s, the Thai
economy was substantially affected by the two oil price shocks and by the
ensuing international economic upheaval. A relatively high rate of overall
growth was maintained initially but this was accompanied by accelerating
inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on
foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 10% in 1979, by 20% in 1980,



- 3 -
and by 13Z in 1981. -he Central Government deficit on average exceeded 4Z of
CDP in the period 1979-82- -ovwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the
current account deficit amounted to 7.7Z of GDP in 1979, 6.2% in 1980, and
6.9Z in 1981; consequencly, there has been a rapid accumlation of Thailand's
traditionally Low externaL debt.
7.         tiitiaLLy, -he Government was slow in responding to the changing
external conditions, but. beginning in 1980, policy adjustments were under-
taken at a gradually accelerating pace through 1982. They included sharp
increases in prices for most petro'eum products. electricity and ocher public
services; measures to increase government revenues; a substantial increase in
real interest rates; and the changes in reguLations to increase financial
stability and monetary restraint. In October 1981 the Government inaugurated
its Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) which made structural adjustment one of its
major priorities. In March 1982, the first SAL for Thailand was approved,
followed by SAL II in March 1983. Under these loans the Government committed
itself to taking steps Loward adjustments in the structure of the economy
through reductions in domestic price controls, export taxes and controls over
agricultural exports; deveLoping a program for improved land tenure; taking
steps toward rationalization of the structure of incentives for industrial
production. exports, and investment; promoting energy conservation and
efficienc development of domestic energy resources; and improving the Govern-
ment's tax structure and administration, public investment planning, and other
areas of public administration. Progress under both SALs was satisfactory,
although implementation of SAL II was at a somewhat slower pace than origi-
nally expected, especially in the area of public resource management.
8.        Macroeconomic developments in Thailand during the last two years
(1982-84) were strongly influenced by a number of external factors. The most
important of these were the worldwide recession in 1982, gradual recovery in
1983 and 1984, with, however, continuing high interest rates and increasing
strength of the dollar to which the baht was linked. The average growth rate
of CDP for 1982-84 was about 5Z per annum. This lower than historical growth
performance was due to a combination of high interest rates at home and
abroad, worldwide recession and thus weak export prices and growth. Agricul-
tural production which had increased slowly in 1982 and 1983 because of poor
weather and low commodity prices, rebounded somewhat in 1984 as weather
improved permitting paddy rice, maize, and cassava production to reach record
levels. As a result of weak domestic demand in 1982, lower international
prices, and an appreciating exchange rate, domestic inflation dropped from 13%
in 1981 to less than 7% in 1983 and 2% in 1984.
9.        The growth of export value and volume picked up in 1934 after having
dropped in 1983. In 1984, export value increased by 16%, as a result of a
good 1983184 crop year, led by a 29.4% volume increase in rice exports.
Imports, on the other hand, which had resumed rapid growth in 1983 because of
a revival in domestic demand, slowed down considerably in 1984 increasing only
by 1.2% in value terms. Given these trade developments, the current account
deficit, which had averaged 7Z of GDP for 1979-1981 and which reached a high
of about 7.5% of GDP in 1983, came down to about 5.3% in 1984. However, even
this improvement left the current account deficit above sustainable levels and
the Government decided in November 1984 to devalue the baht by 14.8% and to



delink it from the US dollar. The external imbalance also reflected an
excessive public sector investment-savings gap which averaged about 7% of GDP
in FY81 and FY82 but improved to about 5Z of GDP in FY83 and FY84. Since the
current account and fiscai deficits remain at unsustainable levels, continued
implementation of the structural adjustment program remains essential and
urgent..  Tn particular, action is required to improve the incernational
competitiveness of the economy and to further reduce the public sector
investment-savings gap. The Government is considering further measures to
reduce the pressure on the balance of payments in the context of preparing the
next phase of its structural adjustment program.
DeveLopment Constraints and Prospects
10.       During the '980s, many of the positive factors which contributed co
Thailand's rapid economic growth and reduccion in povercv over the preceding
two decades will continue to do so, including the reLatively equitable distri-
bution of agricultural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, a good network of public infrastructure, and a dynamic private sector
in industry, agriculture and services. Substantial reductions in the rate of
populacion growth between the mid-1960s and late 1970s and discovery of domes-
tic gas and oil supplies are further positive factors which will support the
continued rapid development of Thailand.
11.       Against these favorabLe factors, however, a number of important con-
straints must be recognized and addressed: (a) The rapid growth of Thailand's
public sector over the last decade, particularly of major state enterprises,
without commensurate growth in publc resource mobilization, has posed a
serious challenge to improvements in institutional and fiscal management.
(b) For the Longer term, the exhaustion of agricultural land reserves could
severely limit empLoyment growth and exports of the agricultural sector,
unless rapid, input-intensive agricultural development proceeds. (c) Further
industrial development, exports and employment growth may similarly be limited
unless the incernational competitiveness and diversification of Thai industry
are strengthened through correct incentives and support for marketing, finance
and technological developments. (d) Despite the promising outlook for
domestic energy resources, their development is costly and will take time, and
thus continued efforts in energy conservation are required. (e) The decline
in the population growth rate appears to have slowed in recent years; further
reductions will require innovative policies. (f) Continued long-term develop-
ment and poverty alleviation will also depend on continued efforts in human
resource development, including education, technical skill development, and
improvements in health and nutrition. (g) Finally, the pace of development
will increasingly be hampered by inefficient metropolitan growth in Bangkok,
unless steps are taken co racionalize che city's land use and transport, water
drainage and sanitation systems; Thailand's secondary cities, too, require
strengthening of their infrastructure and administrative capabilities to
prepare them for the expected future growth in urban population.
12.       These long-term economic development concerns have been compounded
by medium-term adjustment problems as a result of the two oil price shocks and
the subsequent world recession accompanied by poor export prospects and high
real interest rates. Economic projections carried out for the 1983 Economic



Report, and subsequentlv, indicate that accelerated implementation of the
Government's program for structuraL adjustment would be needed to restore
external balance for the economy during the Fifth Plan period. Over the
medium term, cne slower growth of GDP (5.4% per annum for the remainder of the
1980s compared with 7_4% in the Late 1970s), while still better chan that of
most other developing countries, will make it more difficult co reduce the
incidence of povertv ana heightens the need for policies which r0ise labor
absorption, and for continued efforts in the areas of human capical develop-
ment and rural development.
13.       To help address these constraints, the Government has sought the
assistance of the IMF and the Bank. During the past four years, Thailand made
purcnases from the IMF under a compensatory financing facilicy (SDR 186 mil-
lion), a buffer stock financing facility (SDR 58 million), and two standby
arrangements (totalling SDR 617 million). Thailand sought assistance from the
Bank in implementing its structural adjustment program through two structural
adjustment loans and sector work, and in lending to priority sectors. The
Government has also expressed its interest in obtaining Bank assistance in
preparing the Sixth Five Year Plan (1987-91). The country economic and sector
work program for ThaiLand has been structured accordingLy.
Financing Requirements
14.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in tirh absolute level of public expendicures, though they are
expected to drop somewhat in relation to GDP. In order to reduce the public
sector investment-savings gap from its current level of about 5% of GDP to
sustainable levels, much greater efforts will be required to mobilize domestic
resources than in the past. The Government's domestic revenue, as a percen-
tage of GDP (about 15Z in recent years), is low compared to that of other
developing countries at similar levels of development and has not been
increasing. While the Government has taken steps to revise the tax structure
and to improve tax administration and collections, further measures are
needed. In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which has
stabilized in the wake of tariff increases since 1980 and cutbacks in overly
ambitious investment programs, will need further improvement. The Government
is currently reviewing appropriate policies to achieve a more efficient and
financially viable state enterprise sector.
*        15.        Despite these policy measures, the demand for external resources
will increase.  Macroeconomic projections indicate that the cu. -nt account
deficit may well remain above 3% of GDP through most of the 1980s. This will
require large amounts of external borrowing, totaling about $30 billion over
the period 1984-90, of which about 45% is expected to be in the form of public
and pubLicly guaranteed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, total medium- and long-term debt service payments as a percentage
of exports of goods and nonfactor services wiLl rise from 15.4% in 1980 to
20-9Z in 1990. The resulting debt burden, projected on the basis of measures
implemented to date, confirms the need for further adjustment policies
curren-ly under consideration by the Government.



16.       Official donors, particularly the Overseas Economic Cooperatian Fund
of Japan and the development banks, have been expanding their programs to meet
a larger part of Thailand's growing public resource requirements. The rest
has been financed mainly through syndicated loans and bond issues. The
Government has established a National Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and
approve all borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand is improving
its procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to keep track
of total foreign debt. External agencies, including the Bank Group, have in
recent fears increasingly concentrated on project lending to Thailand in some
sectors that have high social benefits but low foreign exchange savings or
earnings. To achieve the level of externaL resource transfers that is now
required, it is necessary, in selected projects where the foreign exchange
component is low, to finance some local currency expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
17.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1985, had received 80 IBRD loans (including two
third-window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$3,383 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date,
$996 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA
credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a
suimary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments. Bank loans
and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$2,084 million as of March 31, 1985 and accounted for 16.7% of Thailand's
total debt (disbursed and outstanding). The Bank Group's share of Thailand's
total debt service payments amounted to 10.2Z in 1984. As of March 31, 1985,
IFC had made twenty-three commitments totalling $224 million in fourteen projects
in Thailand. IFC's investments have been primarily in industry and in the
development of financial institutions. Prospects for increased IFC operations
in Thailand have been enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity
and by increased potential for developing indigenous resources.
18.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in percent-
age, has been as follows: 29Z for energy; 26% for agriculture and rural
development; 16% for transportation; 8% for telecommunications; 4Z for urban
development; 5% for education; 2% for industry; 1% for population/health/
nutrition; and 9% for structural adjustment lending. Overall implementation
of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the pasc five years.
Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 27.1Z in 1984,
which compare with 29.6% and 19.4% respectively for Philippines and Morocco in
1984.
19.       The main objective of Bank Group activities in Thailand is to pro-
mote the country's economic growth and development through structural adjust-
ment, productive investments in the key sectors of the economy, and poverty
alleviation measures. The economic and sector work program is designed to
achieve this objective by assisting the Government to formulate appropriate
economic policies and programs. Major macro and sectoral issues are being
addressed through SALs as well as project lending. Specifically, current Bank



operations are helping Thailand to improve its public resource management,
enhance the efficiency and competiti-veness of productive sectors, and ratio-
nalize the poLicies and investments for infrastructure development- The
Government has valued the analytical input and technical assistance provided
by the Bank ir these areas. especially through our economic work and
structural adjustment lending. However, the level of the Bank's future
lending to Thailand is likely to continue to be affected by stacutory ceilings
on public foreign borrowing, reductions in public investment programs, and the
country's ready access to foreign commercial and concessional sources of
finance.  The Government has also indicated its preference to seek highly
concessional aid or to use its own resources for education. heaLth and popula-
tion related investments. As a result, the levels of bank lending sought by
the Government are likely to be closer to the historical average over the Last
ten years rather than to the peaks achieved in some vears. In cofinancing,
the Bank's primary concern will be to identify appropriate sources or conces-
sional Funding for technical assistance associated with Bank operations. The
above factors are being taken into account in determining the level and compo-
sition of the Bank's operations program in che following areas.
20.       Energy.  Energy has been a significant sector for Bank assistance to
Thailand. In che past, the Bank has helped finance projects for power
generation and distribution, for lignite mining, and for the development and
processing oE nvdrocarbon resources. Bank assistance through these projects
has served to strengthen the institutions involved in the sector. Policy
analyses and dialogue through CESW and SALs have addressed issues in energy
management, planning and the incentive structure. The sector's needs and
investment programs are likely to remain large, and a number of planning and
pricing issues concinue to deserve government attention. The Bank's future
assistance through energy and power projects combined with a CESW program
involving sector work and public investment programming would help the
Government to address these issues and to meet the resource requirements for
the relativeLy large investments planned in the sector.
21.       Agriculture/Rural Development.  The importance of the agriculture
sector to the economy, and the potential for intensive farming and crop diver-
sification, suggest that it should normally cmntinue to be a major focus of
Bank operations. Past Bank assistance through projects has emphasized devel-
opment of the irrigation infrastructure, uplifting of backward areas, improve-
ments in land tenure, programs for rubber replanting, and strengthening of the
delivery systems for extension, research and credit. A number of policy
reforms in the areas of institutional coordination, poverty alleviation, land
reclassification, and reduced export taxation have been implemented with sup-
port from the Bank's CESW program and via SALs. Future operations are expec-
ted co continue these efforts and further concentrate on poverty aLleviation,
agricultural marketing and pricing and maintenance of existing infrastructure.
However, weaknesses in the provision of support services by Government depart-
ments and some outstanding issues in rural credit and mobilization of savings
may limit future Bank assistance in these areas.
22.       Urban and Water Supply.  The Government intends to devote increasing
attention to the continued expansion and pressures of urban areas in the
country, especially Bangkok. Urban and water supply sectors provide consider-



-8-
able investment opportunities, but they also involve institutional and cost
sharing issues. Ongoing sector work for Bangkok as well as the preparatory
work for urban projects financed or under consideration by the Bank are pro-
viding a good basis for assistance in this sector. Future Bank assistance is
likely to concentrate on providing essential urban infrastructure and shelter
for low-income families in Bangkok and in regional cicies.
23.       Transport.  Thailand's transport sector, dominated by road trans-
portation, is generally well developed. The Bank has contributed to develop-
ing transport infrastructure through project lending for roads, railways,
inland waterways and ports.  Future Bank role would focus on investments in
infrastructure maintenance, operational efficiency, and selected construction
as well as on issues in institutional development, investment planning, and
state enterprise finances.
24.       Education.  Past Bank involvement in the education sector indicates
potential for improvement in most areas of the education and training sys-
tem. In view of the Govern'!nent's current policy to finance social sectors
from its own budget without recourse to external sources, the Bank's future
role may be limited in the near term. Nonetheless we intend to keep current
with sector developments to assist in strengthening higher and technical
education particularly where critical for development in other sectors.
Technical manpower development is a priority area for which Government may
seek Bank assistance in future.
25.       Industry.  The Government evolving role, beyond policy setting, is
likely to incLude investments for export promotion, energy efficiency, and
technological change in engineering and agro-industrial subsectors. The Bank
has so far played a limited role in industrial development, primarily through
the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand. Major policy reforms have
been supported through SALs in the areas of trade policy, investment incen-
tives, and planning for large scale industrial investments. Future Bank
operations are likely to focus on further rationalization of the trade regime
together with additional measures for export development, and could be
complemented by credit facilities should Government seek resources from the
Bank for these purposes.
26.       Telecommunications.  The Bank has been closely associated with the
deveLopment of the domestic telephone network, and the Bank's first B loan was
made in connection with the third and fourth telecommunications projects.
Hovever, the Government's plan for rapid network expansion is straining the
institituonal/managerial capacity and finances of the implementing agency, the
Telephone Organization of Thailand (TOT). It may thus take TOT sometime to
consolidate its operations before launching the n1ext phase of expansion.
Meanwhile, Bank involvement would continue through supervision of the ongoing
project and as part of our dialogue on state enterprise performance and
development.



9
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
27.       The efficient development of Thailand's indigenous energy resources
is of primary importance to reducing the country's import dependence and
promoting its industrial development. Over the last two decades, commercial
energy consumption increased at an average rate of 10% p.a. from 1.6 million
tons of oil equivalent (toe) in 1960 to 14.3 million toe in 1983. The rapid
increase in energy consumption was mainLy due to growth and structuraL change
in the economy that expanded industrial and service sectors as well as
commercialized agriculture. Commercial energy consumption in Thailand has
been dominated by petroleum, either imported petroleum products or products
refined locally from imported crude. In 1983, imported petroleum accounted
for about 74% of the country's total energy requirements; hydroelectricity
provided 8Z, coal/lignite 4%, and indigenous oil and natural gas 14Z_
Commercial fuels contributed 54% of total fuel supplies in 1983, non-
traditional fuels the remaining 46% (fuelwood 40%, bagasse 5Z, and residues
lZ). The import bill for petroleum in that year amounted to $2.5 bilLion,
representing 25% of total imports and absorbing 39% of the economy's export
earnings.
28.       In response to the rapidly escalating oil prices in the 1970s, the
Government's Fifth Five-Year National Economic and Social Development Plan
(1982-1986) accorded the energy sector high priority, addressing four inter-
related basic energy sector issues: (i) development of indigenous energy
resources, such as oil and natural gas, lignite and hydro; (ii) establishment
of rational energy pricing policies; (iii) promotion of energy conservation
programs, and (iv) improvement of energy sector management, coordination of
policies and investments. These, developed into detailed policies, plans and
programs, will be an important part of the Sixth Five-Year Plan, for which the
Bank is giving substantial assistance through the energy assessment program
(para. 31).
29.       Prospects for meeting the :lan's energy sector objectives in the
1980s are good. The growth of total energy consumption has been sharply
reduced from an average 8.8% p.a. in the 1970s to about 2.8X p.a. since 1979,
in response to the global recession which slowed Thailand's economic growth,
and to energy prices. Thailand's energy consumption will undergo a structural
shift in composition as a result of the development of indigenous oil, natural
gas and lignite resources and the continued expansion of hydro capacity, as
well as conservation and curtailed energy demand. The shara of imports in its
overall energy consumption could be reduced from some 80% in 1982 to 50% by
1990. The share of petroleum products in commercial energy consumption is
expected to decrease from 87% in 1981 to 57% in 1990. By the end of this
decade, indigenous natural gas is projected to account for 24% of the
commercial energy requirements, with hydroelectricity and lignite providing
for some 7% and 11% respectively.
30.       However, notwithstanding the encouraging prognosis over the medium
term, the level of energy imports will nevertheless remain high. In addition,
further sustained economic growth and transformation in Thailand will continue



- 10 -
to increase the demand for energy and by the mid-l990s, import dependence
could again increase, even allowing for continual successful development of
indigenous resources, with an important effect on the balance of payments. It
should be noted that while recent discoveries of oil and gas in Thailand have
been significant, the fields are expected to be relatively short-lived as
indicated by the production experience. In the absence of significant future
discoveries and the timely conclusion of supply contracts after commercial
discovery, the production of oil and gas could decline rapidly in the 1990s,
thereby aggravating the problem of rising energy consumption and leading to
curtailment of gas-based industries. As a result, it is of high priority for
the country to maintain the momentum for petroleum exploration and development
and rationalize refining operations.
31.       The Bank has taken an active role in support of the Government's
energy development objectives and program of policy reform in the Fifth Plan
through structural adjustment loans (SALs I and II in 1982 and 1983,
respectively) and through loans for development of indigenous energy
resources. A broad range of energy issues is being addressed, particularly in
relation to pricing, conservation, strategy options, planning and assessment
of several proposed major energy investments. A number of these issues need
further work, and ongoing discussions are being held on pricing and strategy
through the structural adjustment process. The Bank is currently drawing
together and building on the many studies completed to date in an ongoing
energy assessment aimed at developing a comprehensive and coherent energy
strategy for Thailand. The energy assessment will be an important
contribution to Sixth Plan preparation.
Energy Resources
32.       Proven and probable economically recoverable natural gas reserves in
Thailand are currently indicated to be about 5.5 trillion cubic feet (tcf), of
which about 3 tcf are proven and under development. These estimates have been
revised downward from those made previously, as field performance now indi-
cates that the recoverable fraction of in-place reserves will be far lower
than originally expected, and, in fact, lower than that for most gas fields in
other countries. Latest data suggest that the ultimate economically recover-
able reserves (including those yet to be discovered) could be in the range of
12-24 tcf. By the end of this decade, natural gas production is expected to
reach some 550 million cubic feet per day (MMCFD), equivalent to some 6
million toe per annum. About 40% of the projected total power generation
could be thermal stations using natural gas, thereby reducing substantially
fuel oiL demand.
33.       Exploration in Thailand has recently led to expectations of domestic
production of oil and natural gas liquids beyond what was thought possible
when the Fifth Plan was prepared. Proven economically recoverable reserves of
petroleum liquids (oil and gas condensate) are currently estimated at about
140 million barrels (bbls). Current production is about 30,000 barrels per
day (bpd). Subject to continued exploration efforts and timely development of
future discoveries, production in 1990 is expected to range between 30,000-
45,000 bpd. The ultimate liquid resource, including that yet to be
discovered, could be in the range of 0.7-1.5 billion bbls based on present



- 11 -
information. Oil is also present in oil shale deposits in Tak province and
these are under feasibility study by the Department of Mineral Resources
(DMR), with the assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany. However,
development is unlikely to be economically viable without substantial price
increases .
34.       Substantial increases in Thailand's lignite deposits have been
indicated by recent drilling. Present known reserves are 859 million tons, of
which 814 million tons are at Mae Koh. Mae Moh's reserves are sufficient to
sustain 1,725 MW in power generacing capacity for at least 30 years; it is
expected that by 1990 about 25Z of total power generation by the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) could be from lignite-fired thermal
stations.
35.       The total hydro potential of Thailand's rivers is estimated at about
9,300 MW, not including the potential of 25,000 MW from the international
rivers (Mekong and Salween), whose development is at present unlikely due to
major political, environmental and social obstacles. About 1,380 MW of hydro-
power capacity are now in operation, 2,100 MW are under construction, and
about 2,500 MW in 25 projects are in various stages of identification or
feasibility study. Mini-hydro potential, estimated at about 3,290 Mg, exists
at over 100 sites. According to current plans, hydropower production will
increase at an average annual rate of about 7Z from 1985 onwards and is
expected to supply about 35Z of electricity generation in 1990.
36.       Thailand's other energy resources include fuelwood and possibly
geothermal energy. Fuelwood resources, once plentiful, are rapidly depleting
as a consequence of the expansion of agriculture. Geothermal exploration is
being carried out by EGAT in the northern part of Thailand near Chiang Mai.
Public Sector Investment and Coordination
37.       Energy is now the single most important sector of public spending.
For the Fifth Plan period, the National Economic and Social Development Board
(NESDB) projected that the energy sector will account for about 26% of total
governmental spending, up from the average of 18% during the Fourth Plan
period. The energy sector is expected to continue to account for more than
50% of state enterprise investment throughout the Fifth Plan period. EGAT is
expected to retain its large share (55-75%) in energy spending for the Fifth
Plan period, with the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) becoming the
second largest as it increases its involvement in gas and oil development and
utilization projects.
38.       Energy sector policy and planning functions involve the Cabinet,
NESDB and the National Energy Administration (NEA). In principle, NEA, which
is under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Energy, is responsible for
sector planning and coordination. In practice, energy sector decisions are
often taken ad hoc by various Cabinet committees and subcommittees. As part
of the Government's continuing structural adjustment program, an energy sector
strategy study has been initiated to provide the basis for determining an
appropriate approach to energy sector planning, particularly addressing ways
_ taking account of the particular uncertainty in Thailand's energy picture
(e.g., the wide range of gas reserve estimates).



- 12 -
Energy Pricing Policy
39.       Until 1978, Thailand's domestic energy price adjustments were
restrained in order to encourage economic development. Since then, however,
the Government has increased domestic energy prices (by 160-180Z between
1978-82) to reflect international price developments. Electricity tariffs
have also been raised and broadly reflect the marginal cost of power
generation, being set at levels that generate a financial rate of return of
about 8% on revalued assets.
40.       Thailand has established the price levels for its comnercial fuel on
an indi-vidual basis and the pricing system is not fullv coordinated across the
energy sector. The introduction of natural gas on a large scale, the develop-
ment of a major lignite mine and changes in petroleum product prices are
leading to substantial changes in energy consumption and investment patterns.
The Government, with the assistance of consultants, has recently completed two
closely coordinated energy pricing studies to rationalize the pricing policies
across the whoLe energy sector and to provide for the efficient utilization of
the energy resources. The final reports and policy implementation will
shortly be reviewed between the Bank and the Government.
Bank ParEicipation in the Energy Sector
41.       The Bank has taken an active role in support of the Government's
development objectives and policy reform in the energy sector through loans
for development of indigenous energy resources and structural adjustment. The
first Loan to the oil and gas sub-sector (S 10-TH) was made in July 1978 for
the preparation and engineering of a gas pipeline project. This was followed
by a $107 million loan (1773-TH) in December 1979 for the pipeline construc-
tion, a project successfully completed on time and within budget.  A subse-
quent loan of $90 million (2184-TH) was approved in June 1982 to help finance
the construction of a gas separation plant and associated facilities for the
marketing and distribution of LPG. The LPG plant is now operating at near
capacity and the physical aspects of the remainder of the project (LPG distri-
bution) will be completed during 1985. The project also included a large
technical assistance component covering training for PTT's staff, strengthen-
ing PTT's institutional capabilities, and various studies for PTT's investment
programs and energy policy formulation. In addition, a $33 million loan to
PTT for the development, jointly with Thai Shell, of oil fields in northern
Thailand is in an advanced stage of preparation.
42.       In the power and lignite subsector, the Bank has made eleven loans
to EGAT and its predecessor totalling $542 million to help finance power
plants and transmission facilities and three loans totalling $130 million to
the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) to finance accelerated rural elec-
trification projects and a provincial power distribution project. The first
seven EGAT projects have been completed satisfactorily. Good progress is
being made with the other EGAT and PEA loans. A first loan to EGAT (1852-TH)
for lignite production was approved in Hay 1980. The Bank approved in April
1984 a further loan of $59 million (2407-TH) for a second lignite project. In
relation to overall policy reform in the energy sector, the Bank has supported
various technical assistance programs, including an extensive energy pricing



- 13 -
study and energy conservation measures through two structural adjustment
loans. In addition. the Bank is working closely with NESDB and NEA on energy
pricing and strategy formulation *which would form the basis for the energy
component of the Sixth Five-Year Plan.
The Petroleum Products Subsector
43.       The exploration and production of petroleum in Thailand is under-
taken by both the Government and the private sector. Exploration, both inland
and offshore, is done primarily by private concessionaires. Exploration
activities are monitored by DMR. The Ministry of Defense currently produces
crude oil at a rate of 400 bpd from 17 wells at Amphur Fang in Chiang Mai
Province.
44.       Thailand has a total refining capacity of 9.8 million tons per year
(tpy) which is distributed among the Bangchak Oil Refinery (BOR - 3.25 million
tpy), Thai Oil Refinery Company (TORC - 3.25 million tpy), Esso Standard (3.25
million tpy), and Fang (0.05 million tpy). BOR, which used to be operated
jointly by the Ministry of Defense and PTT, has recently been restructured and
turned into a fuLly autonomous and commercial company in line with the corpo-
rate and financial restructuring work undertaken by che Government and the
Bank in preparation for the proposed project (para. 49). TORC is a joint
venture between PTT and the private sector, each of which owns 49% of TORC's
equity; the Crown Property Bureau holds the remaining 2%. Shell Company of
Thailand, Ltd., and Caltex Oil (Thailand), Ltd., are among the private share-
holders. The Esso refinery is fully owned by Esso Eastern, Inc., a subsidiary
of Exxon (US), while the Fang refinery, which is operated by the Kinistry of
Defense as a pilot plant, is owned by the Covernment.
45.       Future consumption of petroleum products is projected to increase at
a slower pace as a result of more extensive substitution of natural gas and
lignite for fuel oil, particularly in industry and power generation, and
higher efficiency in energy use across the sectors. Total consumption is
projected to increase by 3% p.a. during 1985-90 and 2% p.a. during 1990-95.
Tne growth rates registered in the past were 11% p.a. (1970-75) and 8% p.a.
(1975-80). Gasoline consumption is projected to decline by 4% p.a. through
1985 as the trend for substituting gasoline with LPG in motor cars continues
and additional energy efficiency measures in the transport sector are imple-
mented.  Mid-distillate consumption, on the other hand, is expected to main-
tain its rapid growth at a rate of about 8% p.a. through 1985 and then level
off at 4% p.a. thereafter.  By 1990, about 0.6 million tpy of diesel oil used
by EGAT for power generation is expected to be replaced with natural gas, and
another 0.2 million tpy by LPG in the transport sector. As for fuel oil, its
consumption is expected to decline sharply at a rate of about 9Z p.a. during
1985-90 due to increased substitution by natural gas. By 1990, nearly
5 million tpy of fuel oil is expected to be replaced by natural gas. Large
imbalances between petroleum product supply and demand will therefore develop,
with substantial deficits in mid-distillate products and surpluses of fuel
oil. With crudes expected to get heavier in the early 1990s and onward, the
net yield of mid-distillates will decline further with corresponding increases
in fuel oil. The technical options available to Thailand to balance demand
and supply in the long run are to: (a) increase crude distillation capacity;



- 14 -
(b) install secondary conversion facilities to convert the surplus low-value
fuel oil into premium value mid-disrillates; or (c) import deficit products
and export surplus fuel oil. The proposed project witl provide financing to
help the Government evaluate these opCions and determine the one most
economically advantageous to Thailand.
Petroleum Product Pricing
46.       Petroleum product prices are fixed by the Go-erment at the ex-refinery
level through the Ministry of Industry and at the retail level through the
National Petroleum Policy Committee (NPPC). Ex-refinery prices are set on the
basis of Singapore posted prices adjusted for freight. Singapore prices are
converted into baht and are reviewed monthly. No material distortions or
problems are arising in respect of ex-refinery prices other than those faced
by refiners worldwide. In connection with the proposed project, agreement has
been reached with the Government that it will continue to set ex-refinery
prices which would (a) allow the refineries, operating efficiently, to meet
their expenses, service their debts, and earn a reasonable rate of return on
capital employed; and (b) be reasonably competitive internationally (Section
3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Excise and municipal taxes are levied
on retail petroleum products. These are determined by legislation. A flexi-
ble instrument is the Oil Stabilization Fund which was established by the
Government in 1974 as a mechanism to stablilize retail petroleum product
prices in the face of fluctuating international prices. Oil Fund Levies act
as an additional (positive or negative) tax, there are no formal limits on the
extent of Oil Fund surpluses and deficits, and there is no established
mechanism for dealing with these balances.
47.       When the baht was devalued by about 15% (relative to the US dollar)
in November 1984, the distributors' margins and retail prices of petroleum
products in Thailand were left unchanged. While most retail petroleum product
prices continue to exceed border prices, the Oil Fund has been running a
deficit since the baht devaluation. Through the proposed project, understand-
ings have been reached with the Government that it would not allow the Oil
Fund to incur sustained deficits, and consequently price increases are likely
to be required soon.
48.       Domestic retail prices of the principal petroleum products are, on
average, higher than international prices. However, significant distortions
still exist in the relative price structures, particularly between gasoline
and diesel.  Progress has been made in narrowing the difference in prices.
Nevertheless, the domestic price ratio for regular gasoline and diesel is 1.6
while the international price ratio is about 1.0. Distortions also exist
between gasoline and LPG and between diesel and kerosene. Relative price
distortions may, over time, encourage uneconomic decisions for energy invest-
ments and inter-fuel substitution. Under SALs I and II, petroleum product
prices were reviewed and adjustments were recommended to reflect more accu-
rately the structure of international prices and domestic refining costs.
Discussions with the Government on this issue are continuing and are likely to
result in steps being taken during 1985 to reduce or remove remaining price
distortions.



- 15 -
The Borrower
49.       Following the Cabinet resolution dated June 19, 1984, the Bangehak
Petroleum Co., Ltd., (BCP) was established as a commercial company to manage
and operate the Bangchak refinery. The decision to establish BCP was based on
an in-depth evaluation made by the Bank of the corporate, financial and
management situation of the Bangchak refinery, which concluded that the reha-
bilitation of the refinery had to be accompanied by a major corporate restruc-
turing. BCP is fully autonomous and would be operated along commercial lines.
It is administered by a managing director who is its chief executive and
operating director. The managing director reports to the board of directors
which formulates the company's policies and oversees its operations. As part
of the arrangements for establishing BCP, the assets, liabilities and staff of
the refinery, which were then administered jointly by PTT and the Ministry of
Defense, were transferred -o PTT and then to BCP. Although PTT is represented
on BCP's Board, the only remaining operations which link the two enticies are
related to the procurement of crude oil and the sale of refined products which
is covered by supply agreements signed in April 1985 between PTT and BCP.
PTT, however, will handle purchase of crude oil for BCP only until such time
that BCP has acquired staff and skills to procure crude oil on the inter-
national markets on its own. In addition, to facilitate the Bank's continua-
tion of its assistance in strengthening the refinery's corporate and financial
framework, BCP will inform the Bank of changes in its statutes which may
impair the company's operations or financial viability.
50.       The Government has paid off the accumulated past losses of the
refinery amounting to $145 million which had been financed by PTT. In addi-
tion, the Government has obtained for BCP's account a revolving credit line of
$120 million for working capital purposes. Equity investments have been
provided by PTT ($36 million), Krung Thai Bank, a Government-owned commercial
bank ($7.5 million), and the Government ($7.5 million plus $75 million in
refinery assets). As part of its efforts to mobilize financing for BCP, the
Government tried to interest private investors to participate with equity in
the new company. Private investors declined, but it is anticipated that the
response will be more positive once the refinery has been rehabilitated and
BCP has established its profitability. The private sector is expected to
participate in a subsequent project involving the installation of secondary
conversion facilities. A feasibility study to determine the most economic
conversion configuration is included in the proposed project (para. 61).
51.       Sound management of BCP is centrat to the financial viability of the
refinery under its new corporate structure. BCP has therefore appointed a
strong Board of Directors and Managing Director, supported by a management and
operations team from Caltex Petroleum Corporation (US) for line functions in
the refinery. The team is comprised of the Refinery Manager and eight
technical specialists who are directly under the Managing Director. The team
will also prepare a detailed training program for refinery personnel for
review and approval of the Bank, and provide the services of a Training
Manager to implement and monitor such training program. This program will
comprise both formal and informal instruction. A training center will be
established for formai classroom instructions provide for junior staff. The
formal instruction for both senior and junior staff will be combined with
on-the-job training to be provided by the technical assistance personnel.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Rationale for Bank Participation in the Project
52.       The project is an important element of the Bank's assistance in the
development of Thailand's energy sector. Through extensive preparation work
for the project, the Bank has been instrumental in assisting the Government in
formulating and impLementing an appropriate institutional, Legal, management
and financial framework for che Bangchak refinery. The Bank's participation
has ensured that refinery operacions are carried out on an auconomous and
commercial basis and that specific operating and financial accountabilities
are established within the refinery. These institutional improvements, as
well as the higher operating and financial efficiency to be achieved under the
project, would make the refinerv attractive for private investment in the
future. With improved management and operations, the refinery should be able
to fulfill its share of the responsibility for the development of the refining
subsector in Thailand. The Government also regards the restructuring of the
refinery into an au.onomous commercial company as a model for future restruc-
turing of other state economic enterprises in Thailand. Participation in this
project will, moreover, put che Bank in an excellent position to be intimately
involved with the Governmeat in rationalizing the demand for and supply of
petroleum fuels in Thailand. From the viewpoint of financial management, the
Bank can play an important role in turning the Bangchak refinery into a finan-
cially viable enterprise. Furthermore, the Bank is in a good position to
advise BCP on acquiring suitable modern technoLogy which the refinery needs
badly. Finally, the Bank can ensure, through an appropriate technical assis-
tance and training package included in the project, that the refinery will be
managed and operated efficiently.
53.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission to Thailand in
September 1982. It was prepared by the Ministry of Finance and BCP with the
assistance, at various stages, of Lummus Operating Associates (US), Chiyoda
Chemical Construction Co. of Japan and Mitsubishi Oil Co. of Japan. The
project was appraised in November-December 1982; appraisal follow-up missions
visited Thailand in 1983 and 1984 to finalize the institutional and project
implementation arrangements. The project was negotiated in November 1984.
The Thai delegation was led by Mr. Kasem Kasemsri, Ambassador to the U.S. The
Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 4727-TH dated April 15, 1985) is being cir-
culated separately. The supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
54.       The project will assist the Government in improving the operations
of the Bangchak refinery through a program of corporate restructuring and
physical rehabilitation. The project will also help reduce the cost of
meeting the petroleum requirements of Thailand in the short- to medium-term,
and determine the modifications and/or expansion required in Thailand's
refinery subsector to balance national demand and supply for petroleum
products in the.long run. These objectives will be achieved through the
following project components: (i) physical rehabilitation of the Bangchak
refinery to increase capacity utilization to design levels and improve its



- 17 -
operations; (ii) implementacion of energy conservation measures to optimize
process unit operations; (iii) improvement of the refinery infrastructure,
including provision for flood protection; (iv) environmental improvements,
including installation of a sulphur plant; (v) project engineering, supervi-
sion and management assistance to help BCP in the implementation of the
rehabilitation, energy conservation and infrastructure uDgrading programs;
(vi) training to improve the technical and managerial capabilities of the
refinery staff; and (vii) carrying out of a techno-economic study to determine
further modifications required to ensure that the yieid pattern of refineries
in Thailand will be in balance with the demand profile for peEroleum products
in the country.
55.       Refinery Rehabilitation.  This component will support investments to
increase capacity utiLization of the refinery and improve product yield.
Worn-out equipment will be repaired or replaced and additionai pumps and heat
exchangers will be installed. In addition, the existing thermal cracker and
visbreaker units will be restored to their design integrity to increase pro-
duction of high quality distillates. Tank instrumentation will also be
upgraded while storage tanks will be painted for weather protection. The
generation and supply of utilities will undergo extensive rehabilitation under
the project to balance steam and electricity generation and consumption.
Steam turbines that could be driven with high and medium pressure steam from
waste-heat boilers will also be installed to eliminate 1.5 SW of purchased
electricity. Treatment of cooling water will be incorporated to ensure that
the water is of acceptable quality and would not cause fouling and plugging of
heat exchanger tubes. After completion of the rehabilitation works, the
refinery is expected to increase its capacity utilization from 70Z to 95%.
56.       Energy Conservation.  Energy consumption and processing losses in
the refinery have ranged from 5 to 6 volume Z of crude oil processed, as com-
pared to about 3.5 to 4.0% norm for a similar but energy-efficient refinery.
The current average efficiency for the process heaters at BCP is about 65Z
compared to about 90% industry norm for similar equipment. There is no heat
recovery equipment such as air preheaters and waste-heat boilers. Flaring of
refinery gases is excessive-about 1.26% compared to less than l.0% in energy-
efficient facilities. Under the proposed project, utility consumption and gas
losses will be reduced by instalLing proper instrumentation to obtain reliable
material balances and monitor gas flow in flare lines, installing heat recov-
ery equipment, and proper maintenance of safety relief valves. In addition,
steamlines insulation will be replaced, saving about 25% of the steam
consumed.
57.       Infrastructure Improvement.  The refinery location is virtually an
island plateau surrounded by a network of connected water courses. This, com-
bined with the low permeability of the soil, necessitates almost the entirety
of the rain water falling within the refinery catchment area to be lifted
out. In addition, the current location of the staff housing facilities inside
the refinery perimeter fence is inappropriate, posing security and safety
hazards to both the refinery and the residents. A program tc improve the
refinery infrastructure is included in the project. This includes: (i) land
drainage, sewer rehabilitation, and floodwater control; (ii) rehabilitation of



- 18 -
internal roads and street Lighting; and (iii) relocation of the staff housing
facilities into an area owned by BCP located south of the battery limits.
58.       Environmental Improvement.  While the refinery does not appear to be
discharging any liquid or solid wastes harmful to the environment, oil sludge,
some of which contain lead from the gasoline tanks, is nevertheless being
dumped into ponds within the refinery battery limits. A new sulphur plant
will be installed to arrest the discharge of substantial quantities of sulphur
oxides into the atmosphere. The project includes improvements in refinery
infrastructure, such as cleaning of the ponds, as part of the rehabilitation
program. The refinery modification feasibility study will also identify addi-
tional measures required to ensure that the refinery conforms to acceptable
environment protection standards and further improve the quality of gaseous
and other effluents.
59.       Project Engineering, and Yanagement and Operations Assistance.  The
management and operations team (para_ 51) will help BCP select a Consulting
Engineering Firm (CEF), which will be appointed under the project to provide
the design and engineering required for the refinery rehabilitation and energy
conservation components. as well as the design basis for all civil works and
equipment and materials to be purchased. In addition, the CEF will prepare
the terms of reference for the General Contractor (GC) for the installation of
equipment and start-up of instaLled equipment or facilities, assist BCP in the
selection of and contract negotiations with GC, and supervise the work of the
CC. The CEF will also assist BCP in the procurement of equipment and
materials and provide on-the-job training to local personnel.  About 670 man-
months of CEF services will be required. All consultants to be engaged under
the project will be hired following World Bank guidelines on use of
consultants.
60.       Training.  The management and operations team from Caltex will
prepare a training program and provide the services of a Training Manager.
This program will comprise both formal and informal instruction. Under the
former, it is intended for up to 25 senior technical and managerial staff to
be sent abroad to attend seminars/courses (over six-month periods) and visit
refineries in other countries to improve their knowledge of modern techniques
of refinery operations and management. The formal instruction for both senior
and junior staff will be combined with on-the-job training to be provided by
the technical assistance personnel; it is therefore expected that the majority
of the instructors will be from the Caltex team and CEF, who will perform the
training function as part of their regular schedule. The refinery training
will be carried out in accordance with a program reviewed and approved by the
Bank (Section 3.01(b) of and Part A.3 of Schedule 5 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
61.       Feasibility Study.  This component will finance a study to determine
the modifications in configuration and/or expansion required in the refinery
subsector to balance national demand and supply of petroleum products. The
feasibility study will be carried out in two phases: Phase I will review the
current and projected demand for oil products, the installed and planned
refining facilities, the utilization of natural gas and other indigenous
energy sources and the extent to which these will affect demand for liquid



- 19 -
petroleum fuels, and the availabiLity of crude oils to Thailand. Phase I will
also include process design configuration for Likely secondary conversion
options, cost estimates, and financiaL and economic evaluations of these
options. Phase II of the study will commence only if Phase I identifies a
process configuration which will be economically justified and provided that
Phase I establishes that the necessarv conversion facilities should be located
at the Bangchak refinery.  Phase _I will carry out further work on the
selected modification option including basic engineering, more detailed
capital and operating cost estimates, complece financial and economic evalua-
tion, and preparation of bidding documencs. The feasibility study will be
carried out in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank.  The
National Petroleum Policy Committee will establish a paneL composed of
relevant Government departments, agencies and enterprises co review Phase I of
the study. By December 31, 1986, BCP will submit Phase I of the study to the
Bank for its review along with the coments of the panel (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The
total study will require about 245 man-months of technical assistance.
Project Execution and Schedule
62.       BCP wiLl be responsible for implementing the project with the assis-
tance of the management and operations team from Caltex and the CEF. The
project will be implemented over a period of four years. The management and
operations team from Caltex will be in place by June 1985. BCP is currently
reviewing proposals for the engineering services required for the rehabilita-
tion, energy conservation and infrastructure improvement components of the
project. Appointment of the CEF is planned for August 1985 and would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). The general and civil works contractors will be appointed within the
next six months following the appointment of the CEF. Civil works, construc-
tion and erection far the above project components will require 17-22 months.
As for the refinery modification feasibility study, Phase I will be completed
in about 6 months, while Phase II will require 9 months.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
63.       The project will require total financing, including physical contin-
gencies, price escalation and interest during construction, of $143.8 million,
of which $127.2 million is in foreign exchange. Local costs of $16.6 million
include identified import duties and applicable local taxes of about $8 mil-
lion. Base cost estimates are expressed in December 1984 prices and were
derived from: (i) the BOR Refinery Rphabilitation Study developed in July
1982 by BOR along with Lummus Operating Associates (US); (ii) the evaluation
prepared by Chiyoda Chemical Engineering and Construction Co. Ltd. (Japan) in
December 1982 based on the refinery inspection conducted in November 1982;
(iii) the review of (ii) by Mitsubishi Oil Co. (Japan) in September 1984; and
(iv) the study conducted in December 1982 by Bank consultants on the
refinery's infrastructure requirements. The capital cost estimates include:
(i) '0% physical contingencies on base costs; and (ii) price escalation based
on expected increases in international and local prices of 8% in 1985, 9% in
1986, 1987 and 1988, 7.5% in 1989 and 6% thereafter for foreign costs, and 8Z
in 1985 and 7Z thereafter for local costs. Cost estimates are indicated in
the loan and project summary.



- 20 -
64.       Foreign costs will be financed by (i) the proposed Bank loan of $85
million, which will cover 67% of foreign and 59% of total financing require-
ments; (ii) suppliers' credits of $30.8 million; and (iii) commercial term
loans of $11.4 million. Local costs will be financed by (i) equity
contributions from the Government of $15 million, and (ii) commercial term
loans of $1.6 million. Retroactive Bank financing of up to $1 million to
cover mobilization and other payments after January 1, 1985 to the management
and operations team (para. 51) is proposed.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Project Element                  ICB        LCB        Other         Total Cost
Equipment, materials and         48.8         -          2.0             50.8
spare parts                   (18.0)        -         (1.9)           (19.9)
Works                            33.1        9.9                         43.0
(20.8)      (8.8)        -              (29.6)
Operations and manage-            5.5         -          1.2              6.7
ment assistance                (5.5)        -           -              (5.5)
Project engineering              16.2        0.2          -              16.4
and management                (16.2)        -           -             (16.2)
Training                          1.6        0.4          -               2.0
(1.6)        -                          (1.6)
FeasibiLity Study                 2.2        0.1                          2.3
(2.2)        -          _               (2.2)
Total                      107.4       10.6         3.2            121.2
(64.3)      (8.8)      (1.9)            (75.0)
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank.



- 21 -
66.       All equipment and materials contracts to be financed by the Bank
will be procured in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines. ICB will be
used for procurement of individual items costing over $200,000, representing
about 70% of the total contracts for equipment and materials. For purposes of
evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of goods under ICB, qualified
domestic suppliers will be allowed a preference of 15% of the CIF price or the
applicable import duty, whichever is lower. Small items costing less than
$200,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of S3.2 million will be
proc red through limited international tendering. Equipment proprietary to
the process design will be procured on the basis of prices negotiated with
original equipment suppliers. Civil works contracts for construction of
training facilities, workshops and infrastructure improvement will be awarded
after local competitive bidding. None of these contracts will exceed $2.0
miLlion and are not Likely to attract interest from foreign bidders. Bidding
packages for works and goods over $300,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior
review of procurement documentation. Local compecicive bidding procedures are
satisfactory. Arrangsments for Local contracting are satisfactorv and the
contractors' capabil ties are considered reasonabLe for the timely and
efficient compLetion of these works. Consulting services (engineering,
management and studies) will be awarded in accordance with Bank guideLines on
the use of consultants.
67.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against 1OOZ of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 65% of other local
expenditures for equipment; 10OZ of foreign expenditures and 65% of local
expenditures for works, 100% of expenditures for consultancy services and
interest during construction in respect of the Bank loan. Disbursements on
contracts for equipment, overseas training, and works costing less than
$100,000, will be made against statement of expenditures. A special account
to assist BCP in meeting expenditures in a timely manner will be opened on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank with an initial deposit of up to
$4,000,000.
Financial Forecasts
68.       The implementation of the proposed project is expected to have a
significant positive impact on the financial position of BCP. In 1990, the
first year when full benefits from the project will be earned, net sales are
expected to reach $1,119 million. The increase in net income over the years
up to about 1990, when interest payments on Bank loan and suppliers' credits
are most onerous, will be modest but steady. Net income is projected to
increase from $12 million in 1990 to $33 million in 1995. Coverage or annual
debt service requirements is expected to be sufficient. With improved
operations, the fund generation capability of the refinery will be signifi-
cantly enhanced. These favorable results are predicated on a pricing system,
such as that in Singapore, which rewards efficient operations through full
coverage of costs and allowance of a reasonable return on capital. As noted
earlier, the Government already sets ex-refinery prices for petroleum products
on the basis of Singapore prices to reflect the level of international prices
in the domestic market. Agreement has been reached with the Government that
it will continue to implement such a pricing policy (para. 46).



- 22 -
69.       To ensure the sound financial position of BCP, agreement was reached
with BCP that it will:  (i) maintain a current ratio of no less than 1.1 uncil
December 31, 1988, and 1.2 thereafter; (ii) not incur any long-term debt if,
after incurring such debt, the debt/equity ratio of BCP will exceed 60140;
(iii) not incur additional debt if, by so doing, the projected debt service
coverage wuill fall below 1.2 times until December 31, 1988, and 1.3 there-
after; (iv) not make any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of any of
its outstanding loans which would materially and adversely affect its ability
to meet its financial obligations; and (v) not, without prior Bank consent,
make any expenditures for capital additions in any fiscal year prior to the
completion of the project in excess of $5 million other than expenditures
related to the implementation of the project and other ongoing projects and
for normal maintenance (Sections 5.04 and 5.05 of draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, since the majority of BCP's customers are scate agencies, and BCP's
liquidity position is substantially affected by payment practices of these
agencies, assurances were obtained from the Government that it will furnish to
the Bank. by November 1, 1935, proposaLs for improvements and carry them out
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon (Section 3.03 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). BCP will be required to submit to the Bank annual
financial statements and reports examined by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank within six months oE the end of the accounting year.
Financial Rate of Return
70.       The incremental financial rate of return of the project is satisfac-
tory at 21Z after taxes. Sensitivity tests indicate that variations in
capital costs, capacity utilization and implementation period will not signi-
ficantly affect the financial returns of the project. Even under the Wofst
case of 20% increase in capital costs and attainment of 20% less capacity
utilization than assumed, the project financial rate of return is still satis-
factory at 14%. Sensitivity tests on crude and product prices were carried
out; with crude oil representing at least 952 of total costs, the likelihood
oL crude price changes not accompanied by corresponding product price changes,
and vice versa, is small. The financial rate of return is about 71 lower than
the economic rate of return, which is calculated ac 28%. The difference lies
primarily in the additional expenditures in import duties and taxes that BCP
would have to pay to the Government for the importation of goods required for
the project. In any case, the financial return from the project is expected
to lead to adequate cash flow for BCP _a order to meet its financial
obligations and maintain a healthy financial position.
Economic Benefits and Risks
71.       The economic benefits that will be derived from the proposed project
will come from increased production of refined products resulting from higher
capacity utilization, and savings from lower energy consumption. The rehabil-
itation and debottlenecking component will help arrest further mechanical
deterioration of the facilities.  It will also increase to and stabilize
capacity utilization at about 952. Without the project, capacity utilization
is expected to drop from the present 70% to about 60% by 1988 and 55% by
1990. By 1990, the project is expected to allow additional production of more
than 7 million bbl per year of refined products and will save Thailand an



- 23 -
estimated annual gross import cost of $214 =4llion in real terms. Met of
crude, imported materials and spares and foreign debt service, the project
will generate over its i.5-year economic life net foreign exchange savings of
about $480 million in March 1985 prices (or about $30 million per year). The
project has a satisfactory economic rate of return of 28Z in real terms.
72.       The project does not face any significant risks that would impede
its efficient implementation. The technologies that will be used are commer-
cially proven and will be supported by qualified and experienced engineering
firms. Comprehensive repair and maintenance and staff training programs are
provided for in the project to ensure that the refinery is operated satisfac-
torily in the future. Environmental safeguards have been incorporated in the
project through (i) infrastructure improvements to minimize the oii sludge
being dumped into ponds; and (ii) installation of a new sulphur plant to lower
discharge of sulphur oxide. Marketing and distribution systems in Thailand
are well-coordinated. BCP's corporate and financial structure is sound and
adequate measures are provided for in the project to maintain such soundness.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bangchak Petroleum
Company, Ltd., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand
and the Bank, and the Report of the Coimittee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the ArticLes of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Features of the Loan Agreement which
are referred to in the text are Listed in Section III of Annex III. An addi-
tional condition of effectiveness would be the appointment of a consulting
engineering firm satisfactory to the Bank (para. 62).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 22, 1985
Washington, D.C.



AIMU I
-24 -                                  Page 1 of 5
umAnD                 - SOCIAL InDCRTS DTA      T
TEAILAND                          REFERENE CU1S CEIz        MECXR) D
8051                  Q115ICO      NoA cs  /b=
I%aLb  97QLb  siiw- ~   AM A,PACIFIC    LAT. 4M1C&ACa
AMa CEMNInM1a SQ. no
TOTAL                            st5-0      514.0     5L40
AIICRLTUIJAL                    128.1      141.2       186_1
___ Pu  WITh CM)                   100.       230.0      790.0             1OSLE             21Z06.
XIC CUNOPMIm
(KILOCRAIS OF OIL EQUAEirr)      44.0      150.0       234.0             567.3             995.5
rOFUIATTM AMD VEFA SKTATICST
POPUIATION,MD-TEAR. CTOUSAD)  26867.0    36370.0   *4531.0                   -
Ul38 POPMATIOI C_ OF TOTAL)      12.5       13.2       16.6               34.7              66.5
PoPrATxON PRJECIONS
POPULATXOK IS TEAR2000 (OILL)                         67.9                 .
STATIORRTM POPULATON ChI.L)                         l11.3
POPULATION !O0ETR                                      1.8
POPULATION DESnsY
PER SQ. U.1                     52.3       70.8       92.4             261.9              35.7
PER SQ. IX. ACII_ LAND         209.8      257.7      255.2            1735.1              92.4
PC-ULATION ACE STRCURE C)
014 VMS                        44.7       46.2       40.4              39_0              39.9
15-4 'RS                        52.6      50.8        56.3              57.6              56.0
65 AND AOUVE                     L7        3.0         3.1               3.3               4.1
POPULATION CRMlT RATE (I)
TOTAL                            Z.8        3.0        2.4               2.3               2.4
URS                              4.6        3.S        4.3               4.3               3.6
OttME BIRH RATZE (PER TiNIS)     43.9       38.5       28.0               30.1              31.3
CUDE DEATH RATE (PER TII0O)       14.7      10.4        7.6               9.5                8.1
CROSS REPIOOUCTIOS AE             3.2        2.7        1.9               2.0                Z.0
-AMT!. PLANSI
ACCEPTORS, A110L C1 )             --      202.9 le  1063.3
USERS C. OF 18F3IED ViWE1)       .         15.0     59.0              52.7              40.3
FOOD AND MUMMITIODE
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PERt CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                    9Z.0      100.0      138.0              123.0             114.3
PER CAPITA SU?. OF
CALRIES (C OF REqUEREMHETS)    100.0      103.0      105.0             1144              110.6
PROTEINS (CRAK( Pu DAY)         45.0      50-0        47.0              57.0              67.3
OF 11ICH ANMAL AND PULSE     11.0       15D        15.0 Id           1l4               34.1
ilLD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE        13.3       7.9        4.0               7.2                5.7
LIFE BEPEC;. AT I5I1N (TEARS)    5Z.3       58.2       62.7               60.4              64.7
LNFANT hRT. hE  (PE TOS)        103.0       74.6       51.4              66.3               60.6
ACCSS TO SAFE 11TER4 (MPOP)
TOTAL                             ..       17.0       22.0 /a           37.0              65.4
URSJ                              ..       60.0       49.0 1.           54.8              78.1
RURAL                                      10.0       12.0 7J           26.4              46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
CT OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        7.0       40.0 itf          413               52.9
URAN                             ..        65.0       5e.0 If           47.4              67.0
RURAL                             -        8.0        36.0 7            33.3              24.5
POPULATION PER PMSICN           7900.0     430-0     7100.0 J           7769.4            1917.7
POP. PER NURSNG PERSON          4830.0 /b  7030.0    2400.0             2460.4             615.8
POP- PE HOSPITAL BED
TOrAL                         1380.0      890.0      820.0 k.         10642              367.2
URA                            260.0 /b   180.0      530.07;           651.2             411.5
RURAL                        21420.0 7  13660.00    1280.0 7-         2594.6            2636.3
ADIBSSIS PER NOSPITAL RED           .       31.0       44.8 in            27.0              27.3
AVERAGE SXZE OF HOUSEHOL
TOTAL                            5.5 /b     5.8        5.5 le
URDU                             5.3 7r     5.8        55 7;r
RURAL                            5.675      5.8        5. 5 -re
AVERAGE 80. OF rPERSOMS/ROM
TOTAL                              .         ..        2.4/ l
URinAX                                      -          2.2 7-             -
RURAL                             ..        ..         2.47 
ACeSS TO EZLECT. ( OF IDL31CS)
TOTAL                             ..       18.9
URBAN                             .        86.1
RMA                               .         9.0



AME I
-25-                                   Page 2 of 5
1~~1AU      ~ - UC?AL    -          lTA 
26*116W                   131      ~~~G0p CU1DGE    AVUMGE5 .LS
mmsRr ECENTmD    rb
=      1a~zL    AM A P AWCzn       TAT. AMc a 
PADLW33     L.                   M.G.                  96.0              10                 105.4
KALZ                  a.0        *a.0        99.0              205.9              106.3
-uI                   79.0        79.0       93.0              96.                10.3
SCDA .: TOSIL                    13.0       17.0       29.0              "6.0                *3.2
_AZ                   16O         20.0       30.0              66.7               62.3
135t                  10.0        13.0       27.0       *       3.1               ".5
VOCA?6OUL CZ 0?   _DAU)           19.1        22.3       15.5               L7.5               33.6
POum-u1AICIE 3*11
3326*03                          36.0       3S.0       26.0               3L0.               30.1
SYMA!                            20.0       16.0       2.0 la             23.5               16.8
ADUL? LIXEUICT 3*Z (1)            67.7        75.6       66.0               7mg                7.5
7*S~ C*86IC _      D 10?           L.6         5.1        6.3 I             10.1               66.0
RADI0        M/                    6.1        76.3      127.2              113.6              223.6
TV       35Z10ima   POP            2.2         6.6       17.4               50.1              107.2
D- {Y GCACAL
uWSFAMDA  CDAIXCin*
FM XIO9UM 10FUI1TW               10.6       23.3       62.6 ,             539                63.5
CIEDCA    ;A    W C       U          ..        0.4 1       ..                3.4                2.5
IGIAL L3= ram CMOs)             1372.0    16956.0    23356.0
?lz (133033)                    66.4        66.6       65.8               33.5               23.2
*AMZL1U3  (133Wr)                66.0       M0.O       76.0               32.2               31.5
i305U  C1?)                      4.0         6.0        9.0               L7.9               23.9
lhmUCI?ATI0 USE (IDODI?)
TODL                             51.3       666        461                36.7               32.2
52.7       69.3       51.9               50.9               49.3
115Ut                            49.8       43.9       6.3                26.1               12
ECONCI1C PMIICT 3*11               0.9         1.1        0.9                1.1                1.4
1ncl? OF PR13*IT13Iowa
NICKEST 50 or IIWS               21.8 lb    23.611    23.0 la             22.2
5 20u or  US                     50.9 47T9.T           69.8 74 6.0
tL3T  203 or   i                  6.2        6.1 '    5.6 7                6.4
LOWEST 60? OF                    L4.9       LS 15.2 .  15.2               1.3
STAG  35
LEVEL CUSS rim C =)
11*1                               ..         ..      159.0 /k           t.6                2U.2
AL                                ..          ..      106.0 7W           152.0              164.0
ESTZ*32 S3EATIVZ roVER T
LL  (Can  3n CUM)
031                                                   11..  ..  tl5.0 /k  177.9             522.
DAL                                                   1...  ..  110.0 7  164.6              372.4
4                     261116235 10T. 3P O A635OmIM
POZ3T3  iICSI LEr  L CZ)
mn                                 ..         ..       15.0 k             23.4
L                                  ..         ..       34.0 W             37.7
Mr? AVAILAU*
/a   he group wvraps for swck inic.tor arpul t-'c- el'hteg agtlUtlc _su. C,ar.  of  cunltrs au  thE
1nd1aton depmiaon eYallahll±y of dats ad le not V.1f0rA.
lb  n.1.. otber-L  noted. 'bkA for 1960' refor co ay year betua15 1959 end 161; -Oaca for 1970r betw.._ l969 and
1971; and drat fur 'Met Begat bzt."t ' baw... 1930 ain 19e2.
/c  CoYer.t program omy; Id n7; / 1976; If 1975;  L 1979; A 1962; A 172; nL 1966;  k 1970.
JmlE. 1984



AqNNEX I
-26-                                                                    Page 3 of 5
vscMr  4Z.  ch  Am  -  &M_  SeM. _.-    .Lgr Jag              M _. tt __.51.. AM   1t.. 2                . AI    Me  an t. -,  5. t12 26Mmusll,
I22   ~   .3 tM 1.2 .6  &MMMMUMI4222. AM  -~.m   -W I di332.25, asomml  2. *WLMc.22    AM 422.  U. do.   . aMMM..MI.-. MMO    .
2..fln. Mc,"M .2 MMAFLIMf. uftMW   3MMWI. AM AMsWsb ..2              I.j.419I..MMOM b.Mc  MMMM   2
-. vMMM.23  3MW -  (33 AM -         -or W-    ME bM  .%.=j2      y_ AM CoM - UrWM  .21m .5. *_  _.M" 2.-. 33.2 AM.  -Mm  GMM Me A
..bj..2      2 4M-    ft. -W*  3      a 033 m.      Wow  bvM.      D 2.3      O.Mu MM_ AM Nun. 22.2 _. %W- b__   Me .mm_  .A
.Dt.51. 1. .         .            a... b.   myM_     -  P.Patr5  aM.d 'ubW2. 2_ .            MW   .1lmor AMM          y lMM .].d     SC AM, .      P 2..,
.-.5.M 21 ." NM22w Ib       s6MtM  AMM 23415 --.   OF QW=Z   MM Ch.          p  1.1MOMdpW   M *132 AMa   hrt 2  -MC 24  2..2 -t           29.- MMft    A
-  v5.. .  -    -a    g t_M  - I               M 22lAMmy2NO*.9ay3i22AIM1i2i22It  _   IM . 2 _ 2t2- _ M 12- _.MM 1F2 2M
AM M( 1962M Mq ._                                                                t.. 3.51   y....3.F... - P     96.1.21.. 41.12. BP -1 . Mt PM."law
9.225.. 21 .2.us  ..-   F ..L_d   -                                    -                       M  I  _ r   _ _    _  ...  V a .1 l 2 * 5_-    _ M
,Mt                                                                                            - P-M  _ rMp__ & x     _f _.o; W; * M= __
_iD AM1 9  4222.                                                                 p22.1cW-at  AM9-55 1_4 - _ *r    5.25. 235.. AMMMM  lmp.!1   22a.22.
9-."VMMM.-kAm         k.2.1 . AMMW. 2  MWA    IMW 82"A.                    -W-IMS,       .1. Mp223..  A   ,M.IM2.922A
or       iTr.-.-.12 2am     - or   1,4.plAM 2n152 (25.-U  22.&M2)                      -MICU MR.  MW..9.p11. -           .   2.232.-        pIy .MM
d       _       S       z  C_n-   _1MI                                _-_t_-
r910. 1JI0. AMl r.42d.                                                               by Mt  AMt -  MbysIMI_                   . MM r.*W.llp  .M .
CW U 0} ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                         ^-   . olM_   Iaa&  MM.& bttl_. _f-s   AMIMM %_Wu  _   __1_ 
* 1.-i - _ 1.-i AM 25~          W~1... m.1          AM 2,41cI. -_.,                     2         . c                _.. .5.) -an".by.. M14- 2me  MMAMM
AM53.2   122)1  15A    22  921.m p2 2.960.                                           9sUFA-.MM  * 112=3223 .5f..2 Mcc22 15.* W21.2.  MM 
-a ~ ~~~~ .-                                                      -St . SSI"-W       &&fal
"M_-. AM1562   W. _r_tMIS4   - 522  A.br Me .hIMM-    -  2zr.*_
Mng"o                                              -~,     _ _lst                    r
ft-                                l 1. MEt-   -  12Iy 1: 1    2.   AM  39M.6       _ I
4222.                                                                            .5.5.~2 22.. .2 MWAMI4 2.23MW AM MW5.34 r     -d  _  o  .-     __. --  2.__
AMMM  M_Mut..: "M_0. 291. A  s36 4.3.                                              Lt. _.         .    2 2  _"n
V.2.25. 9123..5222t                                                                                    22WA     - 251.25.. AM 2..2"
Em l-  _M   ~ 2000 - CM-2Mt ppl122   p1215.I- 2-2 b.M.d -M LO6              _       2 12 22A  -                  .A Mud      _ MMMI.
.si.1p    I2 i      . A _- AM             1    AM  .                                     . 1         y _                                         At-
&-IM   aM.6 Ut         c        2      .1       1         7  pl t  -to   t,21   (                         2 .5 5. 3      - 2.. 5 .  _M .2_-1 -
5  5            AM 2..   12 _ s sr .. .b . t 1        27.5.                                  U     .     ._        - 2.     A
711  3. f.3                   si12g                tv - 2m.                                   . 1._1 AM pe _' 2A
*  _  _  _ V~~ ~~~ -              - r.ar
i1-.6 P- 155   32-1 MMMc, L- MW. .55255. -  .AMl           . 2122 R-
E  _tU7 _M f  _   >_ t_-t  _- pv   -_: P_                                        M_tXI
_2       .      - - 52    2U. MMLa AM   Ad    2.23225 .22t1i7t3 _ _                       W2 - t 5.1 AM ft-&. - MW   5t5. 5.1   a  rAM!:
_     _t M       _     d.  12w  -  M 5.5   .1_. _231. _M-p.stt2 2.t11er              ...L       Ml Mu 4X .-  w2.y b..2 - p__t   .. p_ _c
222    2.5      ....7              M.2 M_   1225  2-                               PSl.7 _5-'aM PM-.S-._ _---1 ISAM. *.1 W AM _4G1__I
s~221.521). U5M       5122.  22M2pMI_  t  22222 22 2. MWp 52  5a apca22  252 4222.25.c 5.Aim   val-gy15.7.3s  VW
AM .--I 22    &.2.23.. d* AM e _             t . M       . _   a- AM A_MWc22. d_I-DCd,l .M52W _1M& _ t                                  1t _ _ _
l.- ° M. MctMM- P..MM -   t -t-Md  E° cm                                    aM   -  pL_D - ba     -M           .  stf M   _a  _D
gr233 a5ch. P..   5  222u 22   .1 ch22.2.22. AM  1. 222.2  AM                       E' 3911.2  11.. 22222 AM  C33.432 . . AM..
P   - U. AM t2.2322.7 2.p23512212    l W 2.2225                       25.23322M.1. -.c5.12.I.  _o_a   _5.2w 3M__
22. A  .2t222 AM A M. 12__ 2       M  5- -.5.2Macy. Th.                            W-d2y   -"Wea.
-M52 t *           1 _  . *-r_ 51 1 *-      _    _         M Ch.                 2.15225 t r_       (           t  _21-            t
.1       .     c      .      2.                         _ -  2._                 &-I2a_. tMe-a..4 InS-ltz. W1  A_ 2M           _.
lb      902.                                                                    527922121    2A.             1t    7 LaM   ...3m,-75212   2213
p112.2  m2M                                                                          21.7A  .27 -22. 42215  by                62 MMM .2 AMM
22v G..2.. 1.-                                                                       pa- ,_.rM2.....  p1IM-AM M32.a2I(20  m.2s.2  .2..2226A.22..
1.2c1 5: 1560. 1910. AM   6 r_ .-                       ulf3                               .. 2s 6.22.)  _12..I3. 232.              f12  AMAM 52  235
=2  2. _225.2.    2IA  - 3._2          _ M22 f2   AM5.,M1 3A                         P.2t 2 M22 t  C.12 I    . 15PP_1.1- wM IS   2 A        .
1y  Itd. 171 A   216 4.
Mrr_             - Ohtl*_ to-ls 7-_o}  _Uqr_m CIS-        
7-                           M  MI tsslw_ lr  lW;S_   vtZtr_ _IMC- MI  .-  r
,,GO.  tw o1._ .3. M., .22.  U.--                                                           I_32. (0-31 _..-.. d_"225     (31  __ _ ___-
. 1  2                -1    - A   1 S,             --I95   rd_ (25 2A                                  2 _     AitM
,.122.221 2230 61).          - 22222 -_ M. *0-2. 1f2 _2 22221 2t                                                            an4-  _)1U27  V d .t r1.
1.2  2 c9-0 1290.10 AM _- 6                      - 2.                        2.1.M       . W                 1232..) - A P.7   3_   Az    ht_r _ IM
-P..1.1 2    9- k    .o- .3 L -*  .r -_  .1                                         .1.2- _. .   1   22 1_ 2  e1_ AM  _A 1.   _..   e1 r_I tr
C-" sin 1                             t22t-9  Mrc 0  r,__ A 0.  t .id-222  2.2:_ 1d : r                            . AM 2. wMM  M_c   .        .1 _ 
214.332 5.2. (A    P.54            12.  2A    .s5.M.2                                 M AM 1 t.22522... 2.S.M    25        M12m.!   1222
CAM _d253f2 22-  -2222        _     t 1r T  _ AMf r 22 4T.1n_n_   (,-    1__t- W 12                                      tV r         -         c M
-2.  .1 2I              ,        M                                                     --&A. M 21-d1 . (    _-M . _     : -1 1"2.t            TVshr h2 T
_.r2r_ 2R. - _.W  -_r    t _.252c-   i           &U _r2- 22 e2   _             in2_ 1    MA 1_ r-  M     wLtW 2   2e I1 2222.-  _. 2222.
b. _e_l r_2       _   51124 t5 .I. .q1r.a  p-.2  V.2_.                                  . (2.3.2_tr   (AM t_.22   pqp2232sd - J_ tA    my
2.r2tU1p  -:  -.2r 2t3--f    _-2.- *412 22 240w. _910. AM                              '_uw  c         33,2p-1 235.Wqp-.. a2_21           - . _.1_r4- .
.1. 22n_t -            ..                         __1l (2                                                           -ai  2-r r  rit2.  1s1r 2     2   _2  tAr 2.
p-11.                                                                              - r55.u1        U: AM e_    2. 1__ D1   n-AM   _.k.
p1.2 P2t.,3  .  -      1           2D    1-2               _ 3   2                  .r22 _5 _
-eett _ Wd_=                  . p_rCI.C   zv as _     d b-t  _e
P-ataft139  AM52 i....- 3y       2 AM  31.29." .1M    221MW9                   LAM. 2-1.22215.(3 4)-Ins2y.22                        M.12.26
2.112 2b.trug  .p -2 =5 sr2222.  3152 AMp I-.  to 5525.                            M.alAM.35154            221456           S   P-.. I22.2 .2112-2
-    f-                          r                                                                                                       --__ . d  __irlirk}--Ct _trw_
P5.l22122 MI1 Ml    . 123233331   R2.222-  -.NI&- .2.5.
rusM AM 23 2.m                                           _1 0. r97  IABMt   __AM..
_~~~~~~~~~Z&    -ct _r-me                                               e_~  -, p-" "_^  I_S r_p_"e nM_I
pI.s22-             L 2      .3_     r_    t2_   2521   ."2W2  AMs_ C- _                  3. IE) - I_1  f-2    3 __ eM. r211. l r25 AM
EAM AM    - c.1.. _2*1 *_.. GMM-2t2   -2221 p5.7 __r (.-l.                         2222236 2 . 2 2 2   21_2 CM2.; 295. 1_1  a  in&622
22622MW I_Mc_2 ct      1 _rrl    .. 2I11. AM -Ma" e   -"' C(..                    I_7  tA     . b2 f.    22 tl. _2222215. 2-225.5.16 AM
52252 A  r-2... ..21.4). 9         ..   . &- -C  .c2222221_7.                                        -a AM    err A         -M,& 21  r1.  -9G. 1W9
b-"                                                                              21         2 9._5  2 W -L  - 2_4 -   L12i . 1b. AM 3I!  - 152122182232il 
2  221122_ 2 1.12  C=                2  1st-t5) - C1                                        22_c I                              2 .12 12 _In _-  22 r
"`223           a `.  A " 2MMWI222241 . CM 2-552 p21 5225 A                        122PC.. .1  .-.l1. 2-12 AM  22.  13               .t2   _.r 2_21212.1
47.     . A   .  15l- C_r.2. 4 1   _232  3212232 1.-.                              39. 291. -a 342  1# 325w 12AMd 112 25L_O           I' 2 _1232._  r
.p23.     A   r_. 22 22k_ P. .613   -I."2.42         1 _   . _2..                  r22i2 2   W2 _ 22    rs_ M l t2 2   pw122  . aMw3225   5 .3.  A
22-t21   .  2. 2A t_             AM  2. t2 422.Lb2&.  1292                         f22..I-          52-  5.122   2     .
,.21123  M 2.122.Mby4222 %  21d -       221MWI- . 5. --2                       &-I22a2...  222232   n_ rt. O 5. "M  -.        - IS." 64 M.  1     MM
-A b= r _ _:f             _u  _.z,_                    -L M .                   r      L _ M. M _  _ 1_  1E_         Is-".
_ _  .d.diS_ ME _.tt. _d L_IM to a E- _
I .1                  - 123; 3 1. I327 A  60.o              _2t6 6227 7r1
P-2  _1222    ".M (2            -  _ _) - P.3..  m.2  . AM -pit.                   P                     2. 2522   152A           I3  U."-  by . - 21r2
"PLY   t.A  AM "Y. MM2  .1r .7 r_AM 2             t-5    2.. 9-                      5           25 23 p__o. r2  20   s. A-  1-c20 W  d-_2  5d
421MW  22.13 MW22.2-.21U2  by AMA W2221. 2..25                                      .22.1.
52125      ME 253 prM 221 '..M  AM  4.- AM II g..- .5 251 AM
,11. p2.. .E%.% la 65   _5u 12 _MMI 15_  12_                                      2r M 7 ? C..
.SAM.5  222  .-I MW. t2 2.5.r 73 va.- 52  a"  Mt3  AM 2_ g_              _            .....-s1-    _    * -          22 i  .-_ ..    P-2 .      2.. AM
.3 .52225. 525222 22    --4  22 AM.  -_       22-.-4 by  :.2 212                   .22.14 22 t.52_43 Lt             2      _2_2222.
. pr. n    _vm *-_ ions _ _x- _ f* _t 
*PI                                                                       ar _smm             =_ r;so0 _ zn_Mr, ~e| M.LZ_  r_.. ._
e_2 I.14 2.23 21w  33Ir                   V 6 r, -63 A 0772.    2   2-222  ,.1 AM--M r05    12                        AM        ) - R  . AM  t-
22 1212 5222  MWI1 a 2.33- AM_ .1 -  22_  ..spl, 22 AM.19 12 p.2                                      w  182.2 22e t  r_     12.3 I lr_    122 2 232rr11
AM 6p.5. 9 *- 25 M 5. 515-     _. AM X-M; 2.22  r_-r.5129                          9.52  121212 12        m  _         1.          ----_ P1A  -w
MMMMta- 422 2.25 2. 31. 22112513960. 3970 AM 226 45                                p2.--%2 C.s---     21 t 51. -Mt7-   h  I-Ml .12 d.2t. 2.- AftM.211
swf_lr~~~~~~~~~~~~-   Irtrhr .6_r    ew_ %-    _  r IrIn  2. -  _r-
32l.22231.4222 P5221*21 5.21 M         41521  I2.222.2 .!SM.     M
U1~ .222.2  22 .12 22212 - £255 5.2,2  y. .2 Lit.  -L.12M                AM  ..    25..5  .155225  (12M2 2.3  2   5   5Hr2
23 2-t__1229  3962 290 AM 1952 4....
bin    Ir r. __m  _ dr ["Z -                                                      P-.._rIr_111 
W322A fM 2.2.1 2222 2.- 212.5.3  . AMW1 a4..AMt W2222 MW1-
525 2 AME"  AMr CM-M  1122Mch 11213960. 3970 AM 3os3 22t-
_~~~~~~~~~!                                          M_        __                        r       ,       b       M-_tl_   _ .  _, _ t
5 2     _!  2   _2      AIM          _      211212.1                                                                               AM  35 _1
*R_ z _ t_   _. _e  p2--0d
25.327 MMIAM) r_ 1512tw.  _  2        2,2 _2212 _ rop"Mci-   2 
35.2M 2._ 2252 222.22c 2522232  m    2t2.1 3222,5.3 -212   Me22232
_-   1. --         _  --M.    _ _U  _tw    t_a t_s   *rL
_522   M. tf5.12       _U. M., I.-  M5." M _I21.W.515. AM 12121
C. *V. tOd M. r_ f_X. _r_
PM- Mcl   Ml o... 2..1 .52.. AM .5252)- ...4  y.sc         42212
r_ rUrrt_  _g-.     M d          Mr 1M dr_t  ft Mr,e      _e-MM
_usim  _r  5          .        .1_ q _ r                  5  2221.4.
AM22..2  A    2p.1  31  132.   5m..                         222



ANNEX I
-27-                                          Page 4 of 5
PopuL*tlm      49.-00 (aid1-HUt th-s)
cm pr cate   010SS0 (1S2
D-bC e
COS minim at                                                                        MEMO of CW
_ _t~~~~~~~~~~xmm Pelves ~)                       Osm  i teC  i_ t                      _t In t     7                          r_e-
Ceam iomastl pec              36.707          6.4      6.3       7.6      5.7        5.4      100.0    101.0    10t.0    100.0    100.0
uu.204        5.5       5.3      3.2      3.6         2.       39.8       -.3     31.S     26.2      20.3
Indeatry                     10.303        11.S      7.3      11.4      5.4        6.1       IB.7     25.3      24.8     27.5      23.0
Service.                    S.230          1.0      7.1       7.9      6.         6.0       51.5     44        43.7     46.3      51.7
cG  ctlea                     25.939          7.3      7.0       7_5      4.7        5.3       85.7     75.7      7953     78.3     78.1
Gross invintot                 7.729         15.8      3.8       a.2      7t         5.3       15.7      26.2     25.4     27.9      22.9
Supotra of E G                  .18          105       3.6      10.4     10.1        5.1       17.4      16.7     19.1     25.0      26.2
Iempo tf QIPS                  9.203         13.9      3.7      10.5      1.3        4.7       13.9     21.5      23.7     31.1     27.2
Gross 1ntiona uaviq            6.723         13.7      4.1       5.5      LI         7.4       14.1      2L.5     20.7     20.7      18.3
G _.it1o  of
umrabane tr"  (   at curt Prim)
1960   1970   1975   190        5/b   1/
mc m
lM=*mmalS expects <.85                        J.5      9.0      16.4      4.4        6.2     1D0O  100M.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
f_i5ry                       4.6ff          4.2      6.6      10.0      0.1        3.7      97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2   54.9    50.3
=buafactarer                 2.186         29.2     20.9     25.1      3.9        9.2       2.2   19.3   227   39.8   45.1    49.7
1hgcdi_e i*port                B.&"          11.5      3.3      10.8      1.2        4.6    IO.   100.0  100.0  100.0  10.    100.0
Food                           245          4.3     -2.       11.9      5.J        6.5       9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4    3.2       3.4
Uburulel                     2.662         11.8      5.0       .7      -4.7         .6      10.9    3.8   22.1   31.4   21.3    19.6
macbir & _qai_.e             2.412         1.1       5.        7.4      3.8        5.3      25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5   35.2    35.S
Otbare                       3.107         10.1      1.0       9.3      4.7        4.9      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7   40.3    41.2
975        19G        1977       197        19         190        1981       1982        193/a
cU? ditlacor                              100.0       103.3      1121       121.8      136.9      139.3      172.1      17T.9       134.5
1s1b_p cam                                 20.4       20.4       20.         20.3      20.3        20.5       ZIA2       23.0       23.0
Epert prim inde                           100.0       97.3        9.        207.4      123.3      151.7      156.2      145.Z      147.3
Import prim Index                         100.0      105.5      113_.4      122.3      141        175.6      207.5      212.7      200.3
Ver,= of mci  idm                         IOWA        92.2       67.6       57.3       90.5        36.4       75.3       613        73.4
to 7 of CW
190            1970          1975           1910           191
FUELIC ?1nhA IC
Curra  rcavemen;                                13.6           13.8           13.2          14.0            14.9
trrext etmanditeur                              10.4           12.6          11.8           13.5            15.0
4 Srplus (4+) or defldct C-)                    43.0           +1.2          41.4           40.5            -0.1
Qaptal eeIture                                   4.3            5.8           3.4            3.9             3.9
loreign fluncin                                  0.2            .1            0.1            o.z             0.9
19070            1970-75           1975-0           19S0-851b           1985-90b
GNP growb rate (2)                               8.4               6.2              6°9                5.4                5.7
COP per capita groutb rate (C)                   5.2               3.4              4.4                3.5                4.2
L=t                                              2.S              4.0               3.4               4.2                 4.1
hrgil eang ra                                    0.29             0.23              0.21              0.16                0.29
Import elasticty                                 1.7              0.6               1.3               0.2                 0.9
la Preliainezy.
/b Projecte.
ic   atrail goweresmo _ aly.
bury . 1965



ANNEX I
1.p,Uta.   s 49.500 (.3-192. thsd                                       - 28 -                                                 Page 5 of 5
OW per capta. V180W  (192)
euZuu  - .AuM  Or PAM==. CEL CAPTL D AMDon
CUM UlLUM at cortc Pie
Actua                                        got.                 rlee
ludte.tor                               1<O  vrX 970   1976    19760                      1S96     13       iiar    1"O 16             193        6 n 9
UAIc  ar P4UU
Ze oru of  _ e    d a      rosctor
..r,iwe                             L.108   3.490   4e029   4.976   4.433   8.191    8.971    9.137    9.000   10.222   1142   12.3    134.6,44   21.379
Ofo.icbt I   rcbedue   Fe.b.          468   2.959   3.454  4*045   S.234  6.449    4.54    4.835    0.306    7.320    7.947    9.064   10.73   14.41
Iopt * of *geds and  enfactor
sercce                           -1.430  -3.892  -s.068  -S.694   8.123  -9.99   -10.71    -9.269  -It.117  -11.271 -11.6  '-127637   -14.394  -21.422
C.t1hi Ymmtdil ta.fob.             -1.112   2.143S -.267  -4,913 -4.787  4.352      .930   -.40             7  -10.206 -10,36  -I1.753 '13.592  -49.701
Hoet faetor Lac    from abrod            23    -a2      -      -263  -4u    -410    -9          -1.087  -1.03    -1.254   -1.333  -1.717   -I.10    -2.365
met transfers                            49      23      40      40       40     165      132      183      277      171      170      270       170      170
C.rut account bealme                   -250    -40  -1.09? -1.132 -2.06  -2.223   -2.506   -1.006   -2.873  -2.132   -1.809  -1.833  -1.964   -2.42
Private direct lease t                   4       79     106      so      31      137      292      169      348      40       296      304      213       342
N1M  ose (me)                            32    24      34      570   1.416   1.645    1.S31    1.327    1.258    1.641    1.922    3.572    2.211    2.n75
Offitals                               21    109      t8t     290     488     S4        521      460      Ml       725      777      76       752       577
private 1                             10    139    164       260     930   t.096    1.010       647      417      913    1.3 4    1.064    1.439    1.99
Otih r capim  lb                         93    219    740       782   1.14O      -3    1.236       360      448      41S    -307    -107       -n9       -42
Coauo in removr..
(- ledlcate  luoe..)                   82    -94      -93    -349   -543      I44    --0l    -12          839     -331     -102    -216      -349     -434
uteratsloal   rs90    1.90   1.837   2.553   3.147   3.045    2.674    2.652    2.355    Z.W6                              2.988    1.204    3.5S4    4.714
*.eroe.aseotb- of eort                            5       4       5       5                 3        3        1        3        3        1        3         2
3MEIAL CAPTrAL MM O3T
Cren- Dllmbucu...t.
C.oCetInL laee                         11      52      73      133     z24    230       Z23      214     z2        34       443     s31       st1      475
DAC                                  1       43      30      86      176    174       169     153       206      287      372      449      641      474
[0*                                   -       7       9       5       4       3       21        19       17       12        9        S        4        1
Otber                                 -       -      1s      62  s 0         49        13      44        27       65       61       Al       16         1
Ibe_oeceselo.al loea.                 Los    467      583s  1.13   1.614   2.154    2.028    1.*10    2.03    2.390    2.697    2.6    3.401    3.195
OfficIa expect credlts               7       -      32       -       -       3       so        93      216      175      173      162      174      225
IUD                                  19      43   bS        103     139     143      239      370       423      237      318     324       544      342
Obear ntllaceral                      2      46      33      U6      34      83       64       102      106       95      111      348      172      208
PrivSt. P_ILCZt  a      careuteed    17    101      106     431     642     6S       60       635       322      139      527      533      593      732
private _..a _rnta.d                143    277      349      73     79"  I.027       790       688      94    1.395    1.73     1.599    2.119    3.60
7ntl 1roe  d     Sebsrmet-           I9      319     663   1.266   2.038   2.314    2.251    2.125    2.233    2.954    3.3e0   3.323    3.912    5.671
Rou_el Dbt (fSd. tam)
-_ he          "e _Sca.ift a*_
di_er_.                              325    823   1.1t9   1.63    2.832  4.*1        S. 1s6   4.138    7.001    3.04    3.977    9.5l  10,392   13.869
Orricsal                            291    672      895   1.256   1.671   2.235    2.43    2.450    4.268    4.993    5.770    6.556    7.310    9.134
Prieste                              37    133      224     S64   1.161   1.013    2.326    2."7    2.733    3.051    3.207    3.393   3.532    4.762
trivet _ ue.wareato-d debt
eateodl   aud disbursed             382     785     an      931   1.243   1.703    2.09      2.296    Z.655    3.234    4.243    5.141    6.411   30.691
Total debt .taraodia   _u
dlebureed                           710   1.606   1.99    2.751   4.075   3.631    7.268    s4.34    9.657   11.29D   13.220   15.092   17.303   24.337
Vadleb..red debt                      11t     840   1.364   1.599   2.341   3e.004    3.061    .392    3.445    3.125    3.144    3.037    2.94    3.314
Debt Sr1ec,
otel sdvice palmate                   262     373    44       612     96 2 1.224    1.325    1.495    1.768    2.162    2.43    2.643    3.049    5.065
Interest                             36    107      126     191     322    50       686       697      743      649    1.025    1.192    1,349    1.959
Peyueets me 2 etorts of goods
and .onfactor eervices             14.6   10.6    11.0    14.3    16.9   13.4        13.6     35.9     19.Z    20.7      23.5    20.6    20.4        2M.
Avurae Intarost late on 1ie  va.
M.    I t             0                 611    7.3      7.0     3.6    7.6    9.3        102       6.2      3.      11.3     30.0    10.0       9.m    1W.2
OffIcial                              3.8     7 U      .1     5b 5    .4   648          7.4      5.7      .11        -        -        -        -         -
Private                               6.0     7.3    8.I      8.9    10.3   13.3       13.6     30.3      8.9        -        -        -        -         -
averae. maturity ao  1m Loan.
(yer"  IC                              183.9   17.3   14.5    17.1    17.0   16.6    16_7         19.3     2n.)    13.8      12.4      12.4    123.1    11.2
OffIecIa                             19.4   20.6   19.6    21.1   2Z2.    21.1    22.4          21.6     22.8        -        -        -        -         -
private                              11.2    7.3      79      9.4   1i0.)    8.6        9.3     13.8     13.7        -        -        -        -         -
to    000                   22.U   13.      17.1    1S.      33.8    33.4     12.9     1S.1     17.1    13.7   t       14.  9.4  I4.7         33.3
2330 dlaburnevuue/rtat.1 S"o..
dl-bor_ento                         9.5    3.1   In.0         .4     7.0n    .31    31.0      11.4     39        9.7      e.      In.&      R.4 40.0
753 debt -ervIc:/total debt
mrWiCe                             11.1  n.4    M.   *4                       .        .3      5.1      3.9    31.3    1.?       OZ.     12.1    I3-.
IDA 000/totel DOD                       -    0.7      1.0     n.t     p.7   n0.        0.7      n.3      n09  n,9           *.,I     "..      13.7     n.n
10D disburmewteltcotl grose
dl-ebo_.nt-                           -     1.1     1.1     0.4     0.2      0.Z      0.9      0.9      42.1     0.4      ft.3      0.2     0.1       0.0
IDL debt s-rvie/tot.l debt
eereice                               -    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0       0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      o.n      0.0       0.0
As 2 of debt outatandLa& at end of 1983
IbturLty *tructure of debt oatstesilug
Pritcipal due "itbin 3 year.                                                                  60.7
Pr,scipVl dOK 'Sthbt 10 7RS                                                                    94.2
7nterut streetur  of debt outstandig
Interot due within ftrat yuar                                                                  86.
/a Dme to cbhege In claesificotloe. projected dut- for 'prvate IL.t loaue Include so_ of the category otber capltl.'
7   'Otber capita l' Lcl.dev  et _  of DI? ftuds gw  et flow ot sbort-tr. captal.
7; El-torical data do not Incl1de eo_.mereted private debt.
Nebrsry 26. 1956



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
-29-
THE STATUS OF BliNK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /a
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount ($ million)
Loan or                                                           les eancellations
credit                                                       Bank        IDA    r.-lis-
number  Year            Borrower             Purpose                             'ursed
Forty-seven loans and three credits fully disbursed       1,480.35      31.74
1149     1975  Kingdom of Thailand        Irrigation         95.00        -       10.90
767     1978  Kingdom of Thailand        Population                    33.10 /b   3.17
1620     1978  Telepbone Organization     Telecom.           90.00        -       10.88
of Thailand
1630     1978  Kingdom of Thailand         Irrigation        17.50        -        3.88
1638     1979  Kingdom of Thailand        Urban Trans.       16.00        -        2.52
1690     1979  Electricity Generating     Power              69.00        -        8.68
Authority of Thailand
913     1979 Kingdom of Thailand         Education            -        35.00      7.07
929     1979  Kingdom of Thailand        Agriculture          -        25.00     12.23
1752     1979  Kingdom of Thailand        Ag. Extension      40.00        -       14.90
1770     1980  Electricity Generating     Power              80.00        -        0.10
Authority of Thailand
1787     1980  Kingdom of Thailand         Irrigation        80.00        -       53.28
1816     1980  Kingdom of Thailand        Ag. Credit         19.00        -        0.97
1852     1980  Electricity Generating     Power              72.00        -        9.05
Authority of Thailand
1863     1980  Provincial Waterworks      Water Supply       40.00        -       30.43
Authority
1870     1980  Kingdom of Thailand        Housing            29.00        -       16.17
1871     1980  Provincial Electricity     Rural Electri-    75.00         -       26.89
Authority                  fication
1889     1980  Kingdom of Thailand         Inland Waterways  53.00        -       39.97
1918     1980  Kingdom of Thailand        Ports              47.00        -       45.18
1922     1980  Kingdom of Thailand        Ag. Research       30.00        -       27.64
1947     1981  Kingdom of Thailand        Potash              8.90        -        0.07
Engineering
1956     1981  Industrial Finance Corp.   Industry           30.00        -        0.11
of Thailand



ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 3
-30 -
Amount ($ million)
Loan or                                                           less cancellattons
credit                                                       Bank        IDA     Undis-
number  Year            Borrower             Purpose                             bursed
2000     1981  Electricity Generating     Power             100.00        -       59.42
Authority of Thailand
2022     1981  Kingdom of Thailand         Irrigation        57.00        -       46.92
2035     1981  Kingdom of Thailand        Provincial Roads  35.00         -       10.88
2078     1982  Kingdom of Thailand        Tree Crops        142.00        -       59.76
2143     1982  Telephone Organization     Telecommuni-      142.10        -       74.91
of Thailand                cations
2178     1982  Kingdom of Thailand        Education          75.00        -       64.27
2184     1982  Petroleum Authority of    Liquified Petro-  90.00          -       61.40
Thailand                   leum Gas
2198     1982  Kingdom of Thailand        Agriculture        17.00        -       16.32
2310     1983  Bank for Agriculture &      Agriculture       70.00        -       18.01
Cooperatives
2311     1983  Kingdom of Thailand         Prov. Roads      100.00        -       94.80
2312     1983  Provincial Electricity     Rural Elec-        30.60        -       26.01
Authority                  trification
B-001    1983  Telephone Organization
of Thailand              Telecom.           8.50         -        0.20
2402     1984  Kingdom of Thailand        Rural Dev.         50.00        -       44.83
2407     1984  Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand    Mining             59.10        -       58.95
2440     1984  Kingdom of Thailand        Agriculture        35.00        -       34.91
Total                                          3.383.05     124.84    995.68
of vhich has been repaid                      424.11        3.42
Total Now Outstanding                          2,958.94     121.42
Amount sold /c                 68.63
of which has been repaid     60.39              8.24
Total Now Held by Bank and IDA                2,950.70      121.42
Total tndisbursed                                973.21      22.47    995.68
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and cir-
culated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
Tc Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



ANNE II
31 -                            Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amounts ($ million)
Year                  Company                    Type of business    Loan  Equity  Total
1959       Concrete Products and              Cement and Construc-
Aggregate Co., Ltd.                tion Naterials         0.3    -       0.3
196411971  Industrial                         Development Finance
Finnce Corporation of              Company                 -    0.4      0.4
Thailand (IFCT)
1969/1 976  Siam Cement Group                 Cement and Construc-
1978hlo"-.L985                                  tion Naterials        28.3   4.4    32.7
1977       Mutual Fund Company TLimted        Money and Capitzl Market -    0.3       0.3
1977       United Sugar Terminal Limited      Food and Food
Processing             2.5   0.2      2.7
1978       Siam Commercial Bank               Small and Medium Scale
Industries             2.0    -       2.0
1979/1980  Bangkok Glass Industry Co. Ltd.  Glass Containers           9.9   0.4    10.;
1983
1979/1981  Siam City Cement Co. Ltd.          Cement and Construc-
1985                                            tion materials        108.9   4.7   113.6
1979       Thai Orient Leasing Co. Ltd.       Capital Market            -    0.1      0.1
1983       Sea Minerals Limited               Mining                    -    0.6      0.6
1983       National Petrochemical Corp.       Chemicals & petro-
chemical                -    0.2      0.2
1983       Thailand Tantalum                  Mining                  53.5   3.3    56.8
1984       World Aquaculture                  Food and Food
Processing             2.3   0.6      2.9
1984       Southeast Asia Venture             Money & Capital Market   -    1.0       1.0
Investment (Seavi)
Total Gross Commitments                                 207.7  16.2   223.S
Less cancellations, termi-
nations, repayments and sales                         151.6   3.5   155.1
Net held by the corporation                              56.1  12.7    68.8
Total Undisbursed                                       101.3   5.4   106.7



ANNEX III
- 32 -
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
r.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Tims taken to prerare project          Approximately 21 months (from
September 1982 to June 1984)
(b)  Project prepared by                    Ministry of Finance, Bangchak
Oil Refinery, Lummus Operat-
ing Associates (US), Chiyoda
Chemical Construction (Japan)
and Mitsubishi Oil Company
(Japan)
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank   :   September 1982
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission         November 1982
Ce)  Completion of Negotiations        :   November 1984
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness          August 1985
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III.  Special Condition
Agreements were reached with the Government:
(a) that it will continue to set ex-refinery prices which would
Ci) allow the refineries, operating efficiently, to meet their
expenses, service their debts and earn a reasonable rate of return
on capital employed; and (ii) be reasonably competitive
internationally (para. 46); and
(b) that it will furnish to the Bank by November 1, 1985, proposals for
improvements in payment practices by state agencies and implement
such proposals taking into account Bank's comments thereon
(para. 69).
Agreement was reached with the Borrower that it will carry out a
refinery modification study in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; by December 1, 1986, it will furnish to the
Bank a copy of Phase I of the study and, based on its findings, carry
out Phase II of the study under arrangements acceptable to the Bank
(para. 61).



98                           ,-,.                                                                                           ,d4.                                                   C 1 .HINA
lx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~~BURMA
THAILAND 
LAO PEOPLE'S DEM. REP.                                            ,/iA
os      .          .          .          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 4f\a                                    @
AI.A.  .   .  ..
I,.   ~ ~ ~~tOO  I'  j  ~~~~~~  hra.I..%l¼...A3~~~~~~~~~                                                                 INDOIJESIA      *~~~~~~~~)SINOAPSNOAOBE
ThE imp has bas gfp.upedTh  ,analn  .zbys
f.M' WA,nJ aiks stl,a Ion Malo
-  /        ~~~~~Udn t.lIn ~          1               ol               a nd tINOA. Nnh&Wua Fiwe
uased sI Oma haaaidWw shew%
"IN                                                                                                                          u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orohnMsh map do rat hi*, an Mae
ha,                          hu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sInfemoaii Financ Copwatun
Li         la                                                                                                                                      s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~// \Ia  ny pjaa l rMn   ft NmieW1 SuabA
Y                                                                                        m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ash boaa'WM,iU
B U RMA                                              Ifi.~,(
Ple,a  lob  ~~~~~~~    A,)atlhav  bias pu                                                        kloo
14     ~~ncho,obnr'                                           i!h~~~~.o-                                                                                                                           u
~~~~~G Nma



twmKmhar4'1Igr~DEMOCRATIC  KAMPUCHEA
12' ~  ~     '4        ( \                                                    GO,<S    *,.  k\,1 W " ,
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
n         < ;"}              \ /Pr,Ki,,,a,ji(Gulf  of    7hoa/lond            hoYe
ANDAMAN SEA                                 S Scp.n
hiimpIio~~~             THAILAND
)H ~BANGCHAK OIL REFINERY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                                  7    VIET NAM
IC  1f  LangIvan                               *    REFINERIES-SANOCHAol,tORO.ESSO.FANO
/* I0                                               -        NATIONAL HIOHWAYS                                   JOr
/ PROVClkI. ROADO.
e                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVE'D
$.P t   \   5ci 7      --~~UNiAVED
,.--.*-'- RAILWAYS
RIVERS
0    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                      __ ___                  _      .
,   w <!,,)J  1\ 2,.gSa   \j6@   PROVINCIAL CAPITALS                                           b CHN   SEA                 1016
wAIa<$I ibEh51Ivamrra  0    OTHER TOWNS           SOUTH  CHINA   SEA
,>p7  l%a -, -PciPh t  ----  PROVINCIAL SOUNDARIES
,...~   $REGIONAL BOUNDAREIS
'. 44   } tINTERNATIONAL SOUNOARIES
MvAil ~    ~       a                              \a Ei                             ~ 
A      T ,< )\                                                                                                         TOR
,a.                                                                 IG?. MALAYSiAi~,                   Iq4_ 1'4w                                    Os






