Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13041
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THAILAND
BANGCHAK OIL REFINERY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2548-TH)
MAY 11, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Thai Baht (B)
US$1   - B 25.6
- B 25 (October 1993)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
ABBREVIATIONS
BPC   -     Bangchak Petroleum Refinery
DED   -     Defense Energy Department
MOAT  -     Management and Operations Team
MOF   -     Ministry of Finance
NPPC  -     National Petroleum Policy Committee
PTT   -     Petroleum Authority of Thailand
RTG   -     Royal Thai Government
SAR   -     Staff Appraisal Report



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
THB WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-Generl
Operations Evaluation
May 11, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on Thailand - Bangehak
Oil Refinery Restructuring Proiect (Loan 2548-TH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Thailand - Bangchak Oil Refinery Restructuring
Project (Loan 2548-TH) prepared jointly by the East Asia and Pacific Region and the Finance and Private
Sector Development Vice Presidency. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. It documents the successful rehabilitation, restructuring and
expansion of a run down, inefficient and loss-making refinery which has now become the pace setter for
other refineries in Thailand. It is a clear account of how a combination of sectoral reform, acceptance of
the need for enterprise autonomy, judicious use of expatriate personnel and management assistance, good
project design, and, above all, timely financial assistance can successfully restructure state owned
enterprises. The Borrower particularly values the enormous contribution of the Bank staff in the
conceptualization, design and implementation of this innovative and complex project. This project took
advantage of a window of opportunity to substantially increase the capacity of the refinery mid-way through
implementation.
On the basis of the results obtained, the outcome of the project is rated as highly satisfactory.
Given the quality of its management, its market orientation and the technical efficiency of its operadon,
the sustainability of the project is likely. The project has had substantial institutional development impact.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
|his document has s restricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






THAILAND
BANGCHAK OIL REFINERY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (LOAN 2548-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE    ..............................................                                                                                  i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ...................................                                                                                 ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE WORLD BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...                                                                              1
Project Identity  .......................................                                                                      1
Background .........................................                                                                           1
Project Objectives and Description    ..........................                                                              2
Project Components ....................................                                                                       2
Project Design and Organization  ............................                                                                 2
Project Implementation  ..................................                                                                     3
Project Results  .......................................                                                                       4
Project Sustainability   ...................................                                                                   6
Environment  ........................................                                                                          7
Bank's Performance    ...................................                                                                      8
Borrower's Performance  .................................                                                                      8
Project Relationship  ....................................                                                                     8
Project Documentation and Data  ............................                                                                   9
Findings and Lessons Learned   .............................                                                                   9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                                             11
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .........................                                                                              13
Project Timetable   .....................................                                                                    13
Loan Disbursement  ....................................                                                                      14
Project Costs and Framework  ..............................                                                                  15
Project Financing   .....................................                                                                    16
Project Results  .......................................                                                                     17
Economic Impact  .....................................                                                                       18
Financial Impact ......................................                                                                      19
Studies ............................................                                                                         19
Status of Covenants  ....................................                                                                    20
Use of Bank Resources ..................................                                                                     21
Staff Inputs   ......................................                                                                  21
Missions   ........................................                                                                    22






THAILAND
BANGCHAK OIL REFINERY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT LN 2548-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Bangchak Oil
Refinery Restructuring Plant in Thailand, for which Loan 2548-TH in the amount
of US$85 million was approved on May 21, 1985. The loan closed on June 20, 1992,
2 years behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was
made June 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Country Department I, East Asia and Pacific Region and the Oil and Gas
Division, Industry and Energy Department of the Finance and Private Section
Development Vice Presidency (Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the.
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in June 1992, and is based inter alia on the
Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision
reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.






THAILAND
BANGCHAK OIL REFINERY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT LN 2548-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The main objective of the project was to assist RTG to transform BPC
from a loss-making enterprise to a profitable operation through an integrated
program of corporate restructuring, institution building and physical
rehabilitation. A parallel long-term objective was to strengthen BPC's ability
in a liberalized oil industry to compete with private sector-owned refineries and
provide an effective counter-balance to the two existing private/joint sector
refineries and future refineries (para 4).
2.          The project objectives were meant to be achieved through:  (a) a
rehabilitation component to rationalize the facilities in order to increase its
capacity, improve product-yield, reduce energy consumption and losses, and
restore the mechanical integrity of the refinery; (b) energy conservation to
reduce energy use and losses; (c) environmental and infrastructure improvements;
(d) project engineering and management and operations assistance for the
rehabilitation of the project; (e) training; and (f) technical and economic
feasibility study (para 5).
Implementation Experience
3.          The  project  required  institutional,  management,  financial  and
physical restructuring. The physical rehabilitation, as well as other project
components were implemented on schedule, without shutting down BPC and well
within the estimated costs. The assistance of a high calibre engineering company
who assessed the physical condition of BPC prior to developing the physical
restructuring strategy, was essential during project preparation and beneficial
during implementation (paras 10-11).
4.          The project scope was changed on account of the refinery planning
study, which recommended that the project include a reduced crude catalytic
cracking unit and increase the capacity of the crude distillation unit. The
result brought the actual distillation capacity to 120,000 bpd which compares
favorably to the original 65,000 bpd projected at appraisal (para 12).
5.          Under the financial restructuring plan, BPC was to receive from the
RTG and participating banks, equity contributions amounting to US$20 million, to
strengthen its capital base. The contributions were to be phased over the life
of the project. However, they were received earlier than expected, delaying the
need to make disbursements of Bank loan proceeds.   As project expenditures
increased in the later stages of project implementation, BPC made disbursements
on the Loan for the total available funds. The initial project expenditures were
expected to be funded out of the Bank loan, as BPC was not expected to make a
major turn-around and register profits until about the third year of the project.



- iii -
However, as part of its physical restructuring, BPC management made the decision
to shut-down almost two thirds of the refining facilities, which were high energy
consumers and technically unreliable, and supplement the loss in production with
imports to meet market requirements. This move immediately stemmed the drain of
funds and resulted in BPC registering a profit of US$4.5 million by 1985 which
financed initial project expenditures (para 13).
Proiect Results
6.          The change in the scope of the project required an extension of the
implementation schedule and the loan closing date. The actual closing was June
30, 1992, two years behind schedule. However, all project components unaffected
by the change of scope, were completed on schedule.   The improved financial
situation and liquidity of BPC delayed disbursements of Bank funds so that actual
disbursements at the time of expected project completion was only 12% of
estimate. The full disbursement of the Loan was only achieved in December 1992,
two and a half years behind the original estimate (para 15).
7.           Implementation of the project components proceeded smoothly despite
the changes in project scope, implementation schedule and disbursement
performance. The developments which resulted to a change in scope could not have
been identified at appraisal. The most optimistic of economic forecasts would
not have projected GDP growth and petroleum product consumption to increase at
the rates of 12-15% p.a. The variance in consumption profile resulted from an
increased use of natural gas to substitute for fuel oil while the demand for
distillation petroleum products increased.   The project met or exceeded the
objectives set during project appraisal (para 16-17).
Proiect Sustainability
8.          Benefits from the project should be sustainable for the following
reasons: (a) BPC has been transformed from a loss-making, inefficient enterprise
with physically deteriorated facilities into an efficient, profit-making
enterprise; (b) as a result of BPC's rehabilitation, its operation sets the
standard for the two other refineries in Thailand; (c) the financial
restructuring of BPC has been completed and has resulted in profitable
operations; (d) BPC was created as an autonomous body under the commercial and
civil code; (e) the provision of a qualified expatriate MOAT has transformed the
outdated and inefficient operations of BPC; and (f) BPC has developed a competent
pool of engineers, managers and skilled technical operators (para 24).
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.          There are several important lessons of experience:  (a) the project
challenged the hypothesis that state agencies can neither be efficient nor
profitable; (b) project preparation needs to be thorough and well planned while
the implementation strategy needs to be supported by appropriate consultants to
supplement the manpower resources of the implementing agencies; and (c)
acceleration of major policy and pricing reforms which the RTG undertook to
strengthen the general organization and regulation of the sector was critical to
the success of BPC and the project and in attracting private investments in the
sector (para 33).



THAILAND
BANGCHAK OIL REFINERY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT (LN 2548-TH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:      Bangchak Oil Refinery Restructuring Project
Loan No.:          2548-TH
RVP Unit:          East Asia and Pacific
Country:           Thailand
Sector:            Energy
Sub-sector:        Petroleum
Background
2.    Thailand's economic expansion commenced in the late 1970s with
annual GDP gaining at a rate exceeding 10%. In parallel, the
consumption of commercial energy also increased registering annual
growth rates ranging from 10% to 17%. By the late 1970s and the early
1980s, imported petroleum accounted for nearly 80% of Thailand's total
energy requirements. In 1980 the import bill for crude oil and
petroleum products was US$2.6 billion, which represented 31% of total
imports and absorbed 45% of the economy's export earnings. The Royal
Thai Government (RTG) realized that to meet the energy requirements of
the country's rapidly growing industrial, agricultural and transport
sectors, major investments would have to be made to exploit its
indigenous energy sources, particularly natural gas and lignite, and to
modernize and expand the petroleum refining industry. The RTG
established a strategy of progressive liberalization of the energy
sector which comprised: (a) providing incentives to the private sector
to develop indigenous energy resources such as oil, natural gas, lignite
and hydropower; (b) giving greater autonomy to state agencies and
improving their efficiencies to compete with the private sector; (c)
deregulating the petroleum product imports and prices; and (d)
encouraging investments by the private sector in energy projects,
particularly petroleum refining.
3.    The petroleum consumption profile changed rapidly over the 1980s
due to the rapid growth of the transport, industrial and power sectors
and the increasing use of natural gas to replace fuel oil. The three
Thai refineries: Esso; TORC; and the state-owned Bangchak Petroleum
Refinery (BPC), originally the Bangchak Oil Refinery or the Military Oil
Refinery; were unable to meet the changing demand and demand patterns.
The country had to import more than 40% of its requirements at premium
prices. In addition, in the early 1980s BPC was incurring heavy loses,
averaging US$20 million annually, in contrast to the Esso and TORC
refineries, which were registering modest profits. All three
refineries, however, clearly needed major investments to modernize and
modify their processing facilities.



-2-
Proiect Objectives and Descriptions
4.    The main objective of the project was to assist RTG to transform
BPC from a loss-making enterprise to a profitable operation through an
integrated program of corporate restructuring, institution building and
physical rehabilitation. A parallel long-term objective was to
strengthen BPC's ability in a liberalized oil industry to compete with
private sector-owned refineries and provide an effective counter-balance
to the two existing private/joint sector refineries and future
refineries.
Project Components
5.    The project objectives were meant to be achieved through: (a) a
refinery rehabilitation component to rationalize the facilities in order
to increase its capacity, improve product-yield, reduce refinery energy
consumption and losses, and restore the mechanical integrity of the
refinery; (b) energy conservation to reduce energy use and losses; (c)
environmental improvement by eliminating sulphur oxide emissions; (d)
infrastructure improvements; (e) project engineering and management and
operations assistance for the rehabilitation of the project; (f)
training; and (g) technical and economic feasibility study to identify
the future expansion and development strategy of BPC and the country.
Proiect Design and Orzanization
6.    The basis, rationale and the justification for the project were
clearly understood by the key policy making body, the National Petroleum
Policy Committee (NPPC) whose input was critical and crucial for the
formulation and, subsequent implementation of the project.
7.    Prior to Loan negotiations and Board presentation, major
institutional reforms had to be carried out which involved: (a)
separating BPC from the control of both the Defense Energy Department
(DED) and the Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT), through the
establishment of a totally autonomous BPC; (b) providing adequate
working and investment capital through equity contributions and long-
term loans; (c) liquidating liabilities which were not the
responsibility of BPC; and (iv) reducing staff from about 1,400 to less
than 500. The formation of an autonomous, commercially oriented company
reduced the influence of DED and PTT on BPC's management and operations.
As these agencies were represented on BPC's Board, they understood the
need for such a corporate change and extended their full cooperation.
The physical rehabilitation and other technical assistance programs were
clearly understood by all RTG agencies involved with BPC.
8.    The project concept was innovative and involved multiple areas:
institution building, corporate restructuring, financial management,
physical rehabilitation, management and operations assistance, and
development of strategies for retaining the continued financial and
economic viability of BPC. It was also unique in its objective of
transforming an inefficient, loss-making agency to an efficient
profitable enterprise, while retaining its state ownership. This was



-3 -
contrary to the popular belief that state-run institutions can neither
be efficient nor profitable.
9.    The concept of engaging an umbrella management and operations team
(MOAT) to provide assistance in selected areas while monitoring the
overall operations of the refinery was developed in consultation with
BPC. BPC had a history of poor management and there was a strong
sentiment to initially engage the services of an oil company to manage
and operate it under a comprehensive management contract. BPC, however,
had a readily trainable pool of technical and management staff who were
relegated to positions of little or no responsibility under a previous
management contract. They were therefore deprived of their opportunity
to develop their potential. Hence, it was argued that another
management contract would perpetuate the problem and seriously hamper
the transfer of technology and experience.
Prolect Implementation
10.   The project required institutional, management, financial and
physical restructuring. BPC was faced with poor employee morale, poor
management structure, inadequate financial base, and facilities which
were in very poor condition due to years of accumulated neglect. With
no clear demarcation of responsibilities and controlled by two powerful
agencies, institutional restructuring assumed major importance.
Although some of the institutional changes were made prior to the Loan,
getting BPC to interface and coordinate with different energy sector
agencies still had to be achieved.
11.   The physical rehabilitation, as well as other project components
were implemented on schedule, without shutting down BPC and well within
the estimated costs. The assistance of a high calibre engineering
company who assessed the physical condition of BPC prior to developing
the physical restructuring strategy, was essential during project
preparation and beneficial during implementation.
12.   The project scope was changed on account of the refinery planning
study, which was completed in November 1988. The study identified the
dramatic increase and change in the petroleum products consumption
profile and the urgent need to increase capacity and secondary
conversion facilities. As recommended in the study, the project
included a reduced crude catalytic cracking unit and increased the
capacity of the crude distillation unit. The result brought the actual
distillation capacity to 120,000 bpd which compares favorably to the
original 65,000 bpd projected at appraisal.
13.   Under the financial restructuring plan, BPC was to receive from
the RTG and participating banks, equity contributions to strengthen its
capital base. These contributions, amounting to US$20 million, were to
be phased over the life of the project. However, they were received
earlier than expected, delaying the need to make disbursements of Bank
loan proceeds. As project expenditures increased in the later stages of
project implementation, BPC made disbursements on the Loan for the total
available funds. The initial project expenditures were expected to be



- 4 -
funded out of the Bank loan, as BPC was not expected to make a major
turn-around and register profits until about the third year of the
project. However, as part of its physical restructuring, BPC management
made the decision to shut-down almost two thirds of the refining
facilities, which were high energy consumers and technically unreliable,
and supplement the loss in production with imports to meet market
requirements. This move immediately stemmed the drain of funds and
resulted in BPC registering a profit of US$4.5 million by 1985 (compared
to a loss of US$18.3 million in 1984) which financed initial project
expenditures.
14.   Adding further to BPC's profit was the unexpected increase in
refining margins due to the sudden collapse in the price of crude oil in
1986 and the consequent increase in demand for petroleum products. The
cumulative profits between 1984-90 was US$45.4 million above the
projected SAR profits. Also, due to the change in project scope, some
of the large lumpy investments were postponed towards the end of the
project.
Project Results
15.   The change in the scope of the project required an extension of
the implementation schedule and the loan closing date. The actual
closing was June 30, 1992, two years behind schedule. However, all
project components unaffected by the change of scope, were completed on
schedule. The improved financial situation and liquidity of BPC delayed
disbursements of Bank funds so that actual disbursements at the time of
expected project completion was only 12% of estimate. The full
disbursement of the Loan was only achieved in December 1992, two and a
half years behind the original estimate.
16.   Implementation of the project components proceeded smoothly
despite the changes in project scope, implementation schedule and
disbursement performance. The developments which resulted to a change
in scope could not have been identified at appraisal. The most
optimistic of economic forecasts would not have projected GDP growth and
petroleum product consumption to increase at the rates of 12-15% p.a.
At appraisal, petroleum product consumption was expected to increase by
only 6% p.a. The variance in consumption profile resulted from an
increased use of natural gas to substitute for fuel oil while the demand
for distillation petroleum products increased.
17.   As the table illustrates, the project met or exceeded the
objectives set during project appraisal.



-5-
SAR TARGET              1992 Actual
(i) Production
Capacity
bpd                              65,000                   120,000
Production bpd                                                        l
(ii) Yield in mmbbls
- LPG                          0.70                      1.20
- Gasoline                     4.60                      7.45
- Kerosene                     3.20                      5.20
- Diesel oil                   6.70                     11.10
- Fuel oil                     6.40                     10.80
(iii) Energy
Consumption,                       3.0                      3.0
- Volume % of feed
(iv) ERR (X)                      28.0                     38.5
(v) FRR (X)                       21.6                     33.0
(vi) Profitability,               18.44                    28.20
18.   The favorable variances between planned and actual results,
particularly in ERR and FRR are due to:  (a) better than expected
international prices for petroleum products and improved margins between
products and crude oil; (b) efficient performance of BPC in implementing
the project; and (c) the ability of BPC to optimize production by
varying it to balance swings in international prices of petroleum
products (i.e. when products are in surplus in the oil market and prices
decline, products are imported to meet contractual obligations and
dropping refinery through-put, and vice-versa).
19.   Under the physical restructuring component of the project, the
refinery (consisting of three separate crude distillation units, a
thermal cracker and a visbreaker) was streamlined by retiring one crude
unit, the thermal cracker and the visbreaker, and by temporarily
suspending the operations of the second crude unit, pending its
rehabilitation. The remaining third crude unit underwent an accelerated
rehabilitation program. This enabled the third unit to achieve a
capacity of 65,000 bpd., exceeding the combined capacity of all three
crude units, and reducing energy consumption and losses to less than
three volume percent. After the rehabilitation of the second crude
unit, BPC achieved a total capacity of 120,000 bpd, and a vastly
improved products yield structure.
20.   The energy use and losses at BPC prior to rehabilitation were
abnormal at about six volumes percent. As a result of the
rehabilitation program, the energy consumption and losses were reduced
to less than 3 volume percent on account of the rationalization of the



- 6 -
use of facilities, the reduction of gas losses by flaring, the
installation of waste-heat recovery facilities, improvements in
efficiency of process units, and reduction of heat losses by repairing
insulation and improvements in instrumentation.
21.   With the rehabilitation program in place, environmental and
infrastructure improvements also resulted. Sulphur oxide emissions were
eliminated through the addition of a sulphur recovery unit. Other
gaseous, liquid and solid emissions were also reduced by more than 60X,
bringing BPC emission levels within the standards set by the National
Environmental Board. The infrastructure program envisioned under the
project were also achieved. It included the construction of land
drainage, sewer rehabilitation, floodwater control, rehabilitation of
roads within the refinery, improvement in street lighting, and
rehabilitation and vegetation of fire-water ponds.
22.   The MOAT provided 12 key specialists to assist BPC's line-managers
to operate the refinery. The MOAT and its Thai staff, working together
as a team, developed operating manuals and procedures. This
arrangement, besides imparting effective training and experience, also
reduced the cost of management assistance for the two-year period to
less than US$8 million, compared to the US$20 million or more that would
have been incurred under a turnkey management contract. More
importantly, the Thai staff gained managerial and operational experience
and confidence at an accelerated pace.
23.   As a result of the institutional strengthening undergone by BPC,
greater autonomy was vested on the BPC board, particularly with regard
to staffing, investment decisions and procurement. The managing
director was given full authority, subject to board approval, to make
day-to-day decisions on matters effecting the financial health of the
refinery. While RTG formulates broad policies, actual implementation is
left to BPC's management.
Project Sustainability
24.   Benefits from the project should be sustainable into the
foreseeable future for the following reasons:
(a)   BPC has been transformed from a loss-making, inefficient
enterprise with physically deteriorated facilities into an
efficient, profit-making enterprise. The transformation
involved the institutional, management, financial, and
physical restructuring of BPC.
(b)   As a result of BPC's rehabilitation, its operation sets the
standard for the two other refineries in Thailand. BPC
engages in every aspect of crude oil procurement, processing
and marketing operations. For instance, BPC's chartering
rates for crude oil transport were consistently below those
of the two competitors. This comparison forced the
competitors to negotiate better terms, very often from their
own subsidiary freight companies.



-7-
(c)   The financial restructuring of BPC has been completed and
has resulted in profitable operations. With a less complex
refining operation and with no state subsidy, BPC is more
profitable than its other competitors, forcing the
competitors to improve their own operations. The financial
success of BPC has encouraged major private sector refining
investments in Thailand and furthered RTG's efforts to
attract private sector participation.
(d)   BPC was created as an autonomous company under the
commercial and civil code. The new organization provides
for a delegation of financial and managerial responsibility
to management and has corporatize the character and
structure of BPC. The responsibilities, roles, and
functions of the different agencies were clearly
established. The shareholders of BPC (MOF, Ministry of
Defense and Industry through PTT, DED, Krung Thai Bank and
the Thai Military Bank) determine broad policy through
nominated directors. Rather than seeking approval of
concerned ministries from time to time on different aspects
of BPC's activities, all major decisions are now taken by
the board. The managing director has overall responsibility
to ensure that BPC's operations are consistent with the
board's policies, while the president takes responsibility
for day-to-day operations, the short- and long-term work
program, and investment strategies of BPC.
(e)   The provision of a qualified expatriate MOAT has transformed
the outdated and inefficient operations of BPC. The
consultant engineering firm provided assistance to design,
monitor and supervise the rehabilitation components, and
management of the general contractor engaged to procure,
install and implement the project.
(f)   BPC has developed a competent pool of engineers, managers
and skilled technical operators, who are highly sought by
other state and private enterprises and other industries.
Enyironment
25.   Air pollution reduction/mitigation is a major RTG commitment and
fuel reformulation as one of the options is being pursued. BPC has
proven to be the main testing ground with regard to the technical and
commercial feasibility of petroleum fuels reformulation, which had
faced some resistance from the other two oil refineries. BPC have
proven that fuel reformulation is technically and financially feasible
and has thus made a valuable contribution in promoting RTG's sectoral
objectives with regard to air pollution abatement.



-8-
Bank Performance
26.   The Bank has performed satisfactorily and met the expectations of
the Borrower throughout the project cycle. The Bank has assisted BPC in
identifying problems, developing options, and selecting a strategy. The
Bank missions worked with several RTG agencies not only to develop the
program for corporate restructuring, institution building, physical
rehabilitation and manpower development, and in organizing BPC, but also
in smoothing out differences between the agencies and BPC. The Bank's
advice was sought; the Bank's regional procurement specialist provided
valuable guidance to BPC staff while Bank's disbursement staff visited
and trained BPC staff.   The main contributions of the Bank were its
ability to put together a team with the required managerial, financial
and technical skills, and coordinate the task with RTG agencies.
27.   In parallel with project preparation, the Bank conducted a study
to asses the international supply and demand for petroleum products
under different scenarios and its likely impact on refining margins.
The study correctly concluded that the risk of reduced refining margins
between distillate petroleum products and crude oil which would
adversely impact BPC and the project's economic viability were minimum.
Borrower Performance
28.   BPC implemented the project satisfactorily.  Its new management
team had several tasks in connection with the takeover of management and
new operational responsibilities which BPC performed well. They
include: (a) organizing the new company to carry out its mandated
functions; (b) interphasing with several RTG agencies and banks to
ensure that commitments were made to fund the new company; (c) reducing
excess staff and negotiating employment terms with unions; (d)
implementing the project, which required the selection of four firms to
provide the services required and its physical implementation; and (e)
recruiting and training of new staff.
29.   BPC management acted with foresight in forming teams within the
organization and in delegating responsibility to them. Management also
used consultant services effectively. The working and inter-personal
relationship that developed between the consultants and BPC staff were
good. BPC's president exercised fully his authority, resulting in quick
decision making and no procurement delays. Likely delays in project
construction were avoided by paying attention to proper design. Cost
over-runs were eliminated by developing a realistic schedule and
procurement strategy. The timetable and strategy reduced the number of
procurement packages by combining similar items, and breaking the
rehabilitation programs into different unit areas. Likewise, cost
overruns were eliminated by developing cost estimates with the
assistance of a reputed engineering company.
Project Relationship
30.   The relationship between BPC and the Bank has been and continues
to be cordial and mutually beneficial. A substantial amount of Bank and



- 9 -
BPC time were spent on project preparation in order to accomplish
institutional reforms needed prior to restructuring. Bank's involvement
and the missions' direct intervention in settling out inter-agency
differences facilitated project implementation. At the same time,
excellent rapport has been established by the Bank with BPC and RTG
agencies making it possible to amicably resolve various issues
throughout project implementation. It was against this background that
the Bank readily agreed to modify, at BPC and RTG's request, the
original project scope and timetable.
31.   BPC confirmed that the recommendations and suggestions from the
Bank during implementation of the project were helpful; and neither the
Bank nor BPC had any adverse comments regarding their relationship
throughout the project cycle.
Proiect Documentation and Data
32.   The SAR was comprehensive and well prepared and gave a thorough
account of the rehabilitation program. The legal documents provided the
necessary legal framework for project implementation and no difficulties
were encountered with them. Information from BPC provided essential
data for Part III of the PCR.
Findings and Lessons Learned
33.   There are several important lessons of experience:
(a)   The project challenged the hypothesis that state agencies
can neither be efficient nor profitable. Given the proper
conditions for institutions to exercise initiative, assume
responsibility and reward performance, a public sector
enterprise could perform as well as a private one. During
project preparation, both RTG and the Bank endeavored to
attract international oil companies to participate in the
project. The options considered were an outright sale,
participation in the project as a major or minor equity
contributor, and part owner with management responsibility.
No interest was generated because BPC was considered beyond
help. However, after the project, several international oil
companies and private investors have expressed interest in
investing in future BPC projects;
(b)   Project preparation needs to be thorough and well planned
while the implementation strategy needs to be supported by
appropriate consultants to supplement the manpower resources
of the implementing agencies. Under the project four groups
of consultants were used: one group assisted the appraisal
team to prepare the project; another assisted BPC in
implementing the rehabilitation program; a third provided
management, operation assistance and training; and a fourth
conducted the planning study for the future expansion and
modification of the refinery.



- 10-
(c)   Acceleration of major policy and pricing reforms which the
RTG undertook to strengthen the general organization and
regulation of the sector was critical to the success of BPC
and the project and in attracting private investments in the
sector. Though no conditionalities were set under the
project, other than to set ex-refinery price of petroleum
products at the same level as import parity prices, there
was a consensus that RTG had to liberalize the sector. Once
the decision has been made, RTG pursued petroleum sector
deregulation vigorously and in October 1992 completely
deregulated importation and prices of petroleum.



- 11 -
PART II
(By Bangchack Petroleum Public Company, Ltd)
40.   The following are our comments on the draft Parts I and III of the
PCR, given to us for comments.
Part III
41.   A draft of Part III of the PCR was reviewed by the Senior
Executive Vice President of the Bangchak Petroleum Company Public
Limited and other management staff. The report is adequate, factual and
accurate.
Part I
42.   Part I of the PCR was also reviewed by BPC.  Here again the
analysis reflects the objectives, scope, implementation characteristics
and benefits which BPC has derived from the project.
43.   Our comments on various aspects of the project and project
implementation are given below.
Banks Performance
44.   We consider the identification of this most beneficial project the
direct result of the interest taken by the World Bank and the detailed
knowledge the project team both with regard to the industry and the
restructuring of a weak company. The Bank impressed on the Ministries
of Finance, Industry and Defence on the issues and problems facing the
refinery. The Government accepted Bank advice and the project. The
design of technical assistance provided to Bangchak to manage and
operate the refinery was very helpful to get Bangchak staff the
necessary experience and confidence in a short time. Similarly, the
technical assistance provided to assist Bangchak to implement the
project proved of great benefit to Bangchak. The experience gathered in
the two phases, refinery operations and project implementation have
provided a sound basis for the company to undertake future projects.
The study to identify future requirements were initially thought to be
premature. This study has now proven to be timely and has helped
Bangchak as well as the Government to appreciate the need for
modification and expansion of refining facilities. Bangchak Petroleum
Company had little experience in implementing a complex project like
this. The assistance provided by Bank staff at every stage of the
project gave Bangchak confidence. We consider Bank staff as consultants
who always acted in the best interest of Bangchak.
Lessons Learned
45.   The project is considered by the Government as a good example for
other public corporations to follow. The elimination of losses and
transforming the refinery to a profitable company is viewed by all as a



- 12 -
great achievement. A major lesson learned is that given autonomy to a
company, a company could perform more efficiently and profitably.
Bangchak's Performance
46.   Bangchak staff worked hard on this project.  Initially Bank's
procurement procedures were not familiar to Bangchak. However, working
with the Bank missions, Bangchak staff gained familiarity quickly and
were able to handle all procurement matters in a transparent and an
expeditious manner. The project management experience Bangchak gained
during the implementation of this project will be very useful for the
new project that is now under preparation. Our staff learned quickly
from consultants as well as the Bank. Very often Bangchak staff worked
on project implementation aspects which were in the contract of
consultants, when consultant progress lagged and thereby expedited
project implementation as well as reduced costs. There were no delays
or disputes between Bangchak and consultants/contractors. Bangchak
managed the implementation of the project while carrying on its normal
business of operating the refinery. Project was completed in time,
except for the additional work which took another 18 months. Our
relationship with Bank staff was always cordial.



- 13 -
Part III
Project Timetable
Date        Date         Date
Item                                 Planned      Revised     Actual
Identification (Executive Summary)  11/82            -         11/17/82
Preparation                          01/83           -         01/28/83
Appraisal Mission                    08/28/83        -         09/30/83
Loan Negotiations                    11/84           -         11/29/84
Board Approval                       05/85           -         05/21/85
Loan Signature                          -            -         09/27/85
Loan Effectiveness                   12/85           -         01/22/86
Loan Closing                         06/30/90                  06/30/92
Loan Completion                                                07/31/92



- 14 -
Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(US$ Million)                                l
Actual
Period Ending   ADpraisal Estimate         Actual       as Z of Estimate
12/31/85               8.8                0.0                0.00
06/30/86              14.9                0.3                0.00
12/31/86              27.7                3.0               11.01
06/30/87              38.9                3.5                8.99
12/31/87              51.9                7.1               13.71
06/30/88              60.7                7.7               12.67
12/31/88              69.0                8.3               12.04
06/30/89              76.6                8.9               11.60
12/31/89              82.0                9.5               11.67
06/30/90              85.0                10.1              11.73
12/31/90                                  10.5
06/30/91                                  15.8       _
12/30/91                                  45.8       _
06/30/92                                  71.1
12/31/92                                  85.0



-      I  j
Proiect (Co5Qa. rlvy
_ _8' W IClA~~~~~, n... ,,' ~1s .1.
A. PRQ,T't    .t'  
SAR Cost              .  hIsf>.{,s ON
Estimate              .tlL_              I        Ata
l.Refineryrehabili-  Local Foreign T:Af   '             ',sA D.t,   i         l ForeiQ io
tation and energy                                                    I
conservation in-.i
cluding infrastruc
-ture, engineering
and construction, 
14.1  98.7   112.8  i46    125.7    38.0   92.2 130.20
2. Technical assis-
tance (training/
management/
study, etc)           1.3   7.1      8.4                      b         -   5.8   5.8
3. Interest during      Li 2     1 . 22.6   j l        QQ _  1 1
construction                                :                        _
TOTAL             16.1  127.2   14;. 8                             3 i 4 '   39.5 104.5  144.0
_      M      . .      _.  ,^        . ':C . A.__. .4  -   -;



- 16 -
B. PROJECr FINANCING
I _________________                (mm     USS)                                   .
l             | ~~~~~Loa A Lyeement  |    Rvsd         |Eill
IBRD                      85.0         T       -            I       85.0
Suppliers' credit         30.8         T       -_T
Commercal Banks           13.0         T_ -T                        44.0
Ministry of Finae          7.50                                     7.50
rung Thai Bank             7.50         _ _-                        7.50
Other Resources   ||| 
Cash
TOTAL                143.8                                    144.8
Comments: Bangchak used its short-term credit line to fund some of the project work and
paid these off out of its profits.



17 -
Proiect Results
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
A+ Full
DescrtiWo       ADDraisal Estimates   Cost at Closinr      Developm
1. Staff training and  Training of about 12  Trainaed 15        No change
development of    savice staff
an efficient
organtional
stcwture.
BCP's own manage-  BCP took over com-  Not applicable
ment team was       plete operational
expected to take    responsibilities be-
own responsibilities  fore end 1988
by end 1988                    _
2. Planning study  Completion end       Completed end 1989  Not applicable
1987
3. Refinery, pro-                                           No change
duction
(1000 bpd)           21.417              36.225
4. Capacity util-                                           No change
,ation                 84                   90
5. Mid-distillate                                           No change
production
(1000 bpd            7.495                 13.766
6. Net petroleum                                            No change
product yield           96                   96
7. Profit after tax                                         Could increase
(mm USS)            18.44                 28.2



1___     , EA" IMPACT
Economic rate ot 't ir3                                             38.5
Underlying allurnnti) 
1) margin (S/mt) bet.veen
- gasoline and crude  t ii                                         150
- kerosene and cruoe                                               130
- diesel oil and crudIe k;-                                        125
- fuel oil and cnhdL o,l                                           47
2) Production and ProducL's
Value                             Maij X!                L    XYit
rnm 1hI      mrmn,)           (mmS)   (mm $)
1991                             ` ,36.7             10.0     278.3
1992                               J.6               14.8     333.0
3) Processing costs                                              0.35
S /bb _
Comments: 'Te highc r o Lrn eApe.-          irt tite margin of distillate petroleum products
over crude oil prices, mne USJUAUL-l ~ .'  i ICFe, the improvement in products yield and
the reduction of r.fne- jr ;  .t  to the very favorable ERR.



- 19 -
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
|          _            ~~~~~~~~Without Proiect      Wt  ric
Financial rate of return         Negative                   33
Other Financal Indicigors
Current ratio
1991                     1.4                  1.4
1992                     1.6                  1.6
Debt/equity rauo
1991                    34/66                 30/70
1992                    22n78                 30/70
Debt service coverage
1991                     1.6                  2.0
1992                     2.0                  2.5
Comment: the above were provided by BCP.
D. STUDIES
Purpose as Defined
__  at 3ApdImpa _   _ _ _ _U_
1. Techono-        To identify the          Completed        The study identified
economic study    modification and ex-                    the need for very
pansions needed to                       substantial increase
meet future demands                     in refining and -
and remain competi-                      conversion facili-
dve and profitable                      ties. Based on the
study, RTG gave
approval to two
large refineries,
which are now
under construction
by the private
sector.



- 20 -
Status of Covenants
Covenan 
RTG shall:
(a)    establish ex-refinery prices which would allow  Prices have been
refincries under conditions of efficient management   deuld.
to cover costs and an adequate return - whilst
being reasonably competitive with prices in major
oil-producing countries;
(b)    by December 31, 1986 to (i) carry out a refinery  Studies completed and
sub-sector study to balance future national demand    submitted to the Bank
and supply and furnish a copy of the study to the  on 06/30/87. RTG has
Bank for its comment, along with the comments of   approved expansion of
the RTG-appointed review panel; and (ii) thereafter,  refining capacity at
on the basis of the first phase of the study, under-    Bangak and Torc in
take a detail feasibility study to appraise any  line with the study,
process modification that may be recommended for   recommendations and
Bangchak refinery;                              the two new refineries.
nanmcial Covenants
BCP shall:
(c)    maintain a ration of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.1 until December
1998 and 1.2 thereafter;
(d)    until December 31, 1988, not incur and debt      In compliance.
unless estimated net revenue is at least 1.2
times that of all debt service and thereafter net
revenue shall be at least 1.3 times debt service;
(e)    not repay in advance of maturity any outstanding  In compliance.
debts which could materially alter its ability to
meet its financial obligations;
(f)    furnish to the Bank within 30 days after the end of   In compliance.
each fiscal quarter project progress reports for
such quarter, and within 60 days the unaudited
financial statement for each quarter;



-21 -
(g)    have the accounts for each fiscal year audited  In compliace.
and submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal yea;
RTG shall:
(h)   furimsh to the Bank by November 30, 1985, or some  In compliance.
other date as agreed to with the Bank, for comment   March 12, 1987
proposals designed to ensure that the depatun,
agencies and state enterprises of the guarator
(RTG) purchasing petroleum fueltirectly or in-
direcly from the borrower will settle their account
in respect thereof within 30 days from delivery of
such fuel; and
(i)   ther   implement such proposals taking into     In compliance.
accoum the Bank's comments thereon.
Use of Bank Resources
A. STAFF INPUTS
_______________ ____________ _  (D ays)
Se of ProjctCyle             |Ell
Throug apprisal                                     1,130
Appraisal thrugh Board approval                      480
Board approval through effectiveness                  60
Supervision                                         1,230
TOTAL                                2,900
Wp     ocN     wwHA   . s  18. IMR



- 22 -
MISSIONS
Mission              Speciali   Perfor
Stage               Number                            mance
of      Month/       of       Day in    zation    Rating   Type of
Project     Year      Persons   Field       Repre-     Status    Proble
Cycles                                    sented                m
Through    08/82         3          21     Refining      N/A        N/A
Apprais                                     I
al                                           Econo-
mics
Finance
11/82        5         10                    N/A       N/A
- do -
Apprais     12/83        2          6        - do -      N/A        N/A
al          10/84        2          11       - do -      N/A
Through    02/85         2          7        - do -      N/A
Board
Approva
1
Board
Approva
1
Through     07/85        1          6        - do -      N/A
Effecti
ve
Date
Super-      02/86        2          8      Finance/      N/A
vision      06/86        1          4      Refinery       1
03/87        2          7                     2
06/87        4          8                     2
10/87        1          4                     2
02/88        1          6                     2
10/88        2          4                     7
02/89        1         10                     1
10/89        1          4                     1
08/90        1          5                     1
03/91        1          5                     1
06/91        1          9                     1
02/92        1          5                     1
1



