Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  10/22/2008 
Report No.:  AC3966
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Lao People's Democratic 
Republic 
Project ID:  P114617 
Project Name:  LAO PDR:  Rice Productivity Improvement Project 
Task Team Leader:  Richard H. E. Chisholm 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: November 14, 2008 
Managing Unit:  EASRE 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Crops (70%);Agricultural extension and research (30%) 
Theme:  Global food crisis response (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 Special 
Financing 
3.00
3.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The main development objective would be to increase rice productivity and overall 
volume of rice production among smallholders in four selected provinces, thereby 
substantially increasing incomes and improving food security for small farm households.  
This would result in a very rapid reduction of seasonal and disaster related shortages of 
rice in the project areas, as well as reducing the impacts of rising food prices.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1 
–
Support to Rice Seed Systems (base costs US$1.37 million).  This 
component would support the improvement of facilities and equipment for increasing the 
quantity and quality of rice seed production to be multiplied by farmers.  The Project 
would provide equipment for production, drying, grading, packaging, cool storage, as 
well as small training facilities and transportation at selected government research centers 
and seed multiplication stations located in Savannakhet (Thasano station and KM35 sub-
station), Champasak (Phonengam and outgrower areas) and Vientiane (Naphok Central 
Seed Station).  In addition, the project would provide support to establish a small seed 
laboratory at Naphok Central Station which is considered essential for ensuring quality 
Page  2
standards.  The support provided to the Naphok Center would be complementary to the 
ongoing RISEP project funded by JICA.  Foreign and local technical assistance would be 
required for this component.  Implementation of this component would result in a large 
increase in the quality and the quantity of breeder (R1) and foundation (R2) seed, that 
would be multiplied (under Component 2 below) by specialized small farmers to produce 
improved or registered seed (R3) for general use.  These research centers and seed 
multiplication stations would provide technical support to Component 2 by supporting 
Khum Bhans’ level of government in the process of selection andtraining of the farmers 
seed multiplication groups to be created under the second component.  It is proposed that 
the Thasano Research Center in Savannakhet support R2 seed to be multiplied by farmers 
groups in Savannakhet and Khammouane, while the Phonengam would provide seed to 
groups in Champasak and Saravan Provinces.  
 
Component 2 - Support for Farmer Seed Groups and On Farm Demonstrations (based 
costs US$1.21 million).  This component would support the formation of up to 200 small 
farmer groups in about 70 Khum Bans (village clusters) in the four selected provinces. 
Farmer groups would be managed by farmer leaders trained by the project using the Lao 
Extension Approach, supported by extension agents at Khum Ban/village level from the 
Provincial and District Agriculture and Forestry Offices (PAFOs/DAFOs).  The 
component would use relatively small demonstrations (about 0.5 ha per household with 
20 households per group) of demand based seed and optimized (by soil test at village 
level) fertilizer inputs and management.  Inputs for demonstrations would be provided as 
grants to farmers to allow up scaling of improved seed and seed multiplication systems 
developed at the research centers and seed stations, and improved NPK and micronutrient 
based fertilizer regimes resulting from research by IRRI in the 1990s.  These inputs 
would need to be distributed initially to about 40 groups by April 2009, in time for the 
rainfed planting season.  Based on previous work, it is estimated that seed and fertilizer 
packages (which could include 30 Kg. of seed, 100 Kg. of NPK fertilizer and 2 Kg of 
Boron for planting 0.5 ha) would be sufficient to demonstrate the benefits of improved 
inputs, by raising productivity levels from 1.8 tons per ha to at least 3.0 tons per ha across 
rain fed and irrigated lowland areas (while using improved seed alone would raise 
productivity by about 20%).  Eligibility for the assistance would be governed by criteria 
to be agreed among the Bank, the GoL and Provincial Governments.  Criteria would 
include adequacy of irrigation systems or rainfed land area, management ability and 
interest, poverty status (mainly in upland areas) and long term interest in seed production 
as a business.  Group formation, technical support and monitoring would be organized 
with adequate technical assistance (involving contracts for the group formation and 
strengthening).  This component has three main expected outcomes: (i) increase in rice 
productivity and overall levels of production for households adopting the improved 
packages; (ii) jump-starting the process of creating real demand for high quality seed and 
modern high yielding inputs; and (iii) a large proportion of these farmers groups are 
expected to emerge as certified (R3) seed producers after three seasons of support.  
 
Component 3 - Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (base costs US$ 
0.42 million).  This component would support overall project management and 
coordination, as well as the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) 
Page  3
system, all under NAFRI. The expected M&E activities would include a baseline survey, 
monitoring surveys and the final evaluation report.  Capacity building will include 
training of agricultural college student enumerators in preparation for a future role in 
technical support.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will only support existing sites including one rice seed station (Thasano) and 
one sub-station (KM35) in Savannakhet province, one main station (Phone Ngam) in 
Champasak province, and supports farmer groups for rice multiplication in four provinces 
(Khammouane, Savannakhet, Champasak and Saravan). In addition, the project will also 
support establishing up a small seed laboratory at Naphok Central Station (Vientiane 
Capital City) which is considered essential for ensuring quality standards. In summary, 
project activities will be implemented in five provinces for supporting of rice seed 
production system.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environment Assessment (OP/BP 4.01): not triggered.  
 
The project will provide some equipment and do small renovation works under the 
Component 1, but the  activities will only be placed in existing rice seed centers and 
existing paddy fields where impact on environment is not expected.  However, good 
construction practices will be included in the Project Operational Manual to ensure that 
the potential negative impacts during rehabilitation and/or construction works is 
minimized.  
 
Pest Management (OP 4.09): not triggered.  
Page  4
The project will support around 200 farmers under the Component 2 for rice seed 
multiplications.  A fertilizer will be provided to each individual farmer and training on 
proper use of fertilizer has been included in the project design.  The project will not 
procure any pesticide for the cultivation and this will be specified in the project operation 
manual.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12): not triggered.  
 
Since all of these small scale civil works would be undertaken within the existing land 
areas of the government research centers and stations, no land acquisition and 
resettlement of local people will be required.  No additional land outside the current 
boundaries of the above mentioned centers and stations would be needed and thus 
resettlement of the surrounding communities would not be triggered for renovation and 
construction works under the PRIP.  These were confirmed by the Directors of these 
government units and NAFRI during the Appraisal Mission.  
 
Indigenous People (OP/BP 4.10): Triggered.  
 
Component 2,  Support for Farmer Seed Groups and On Farm Demonstrations, would 
support the formation of up to 200 small farmer groups in about 70 Khum Bans (village 
clusters) in the four selected provinces. This component will include some upland areas 
where diverse ethnic groups with their own culture and languages are living, and where 
poverty rates exceed the national average (LECS3, 2005). These ethnic farmers whose 
livelihood is heavily based on less-sophisticated agricultural practice are considered to be 
a
vulnerable group in the rural Lao context. If such communities are involved, RPIP may 
need special measures to promote their effective participation in the demonstration 
activities using the Lao Extension Approach. Given that the target communities will be 
identified in the implementation phase and thus it is impossible to determine potential 
impacts prior to appraisal, an Ethnic Farmers Participation Framework consistent with 
requirements of OP 4.10 has been prepared for Bank review and acceptance. The main 
objective of the Framework is to facilitate the inclusion and participation of ethnic 
farmers in the whole cycle of demonstration activities.  This Framework will be finalized 
and adopted, in a manner acceptable to the Bank, within one month of project 
effectiveness.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The Project will not create any potential indirect and/or long term negative impacts.  
However, the project will provide fertilizer to support the centers and farmers for rice 
seed multiplication but not for paddy production in general. The best practices on the use 
of fertilizer will be developed in the Operation Manual and a proper consultation process 
will be carried out during the implementation period to avoid cumulative impact on soil 
structure in the long run.  
 
Page  5
Similarly, a capacity building process under the project will provide adequate technical 
and management capacities to the extension workers in four provinces to minimize 
potential of long term impact.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not relevant.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The project will be implemented under the responsibility and coordination of the National 
Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI) of the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Forestry (MAF), at both national and provincial levels.  
 
For Component 1, NAFRI will provide direct supervision to Naphok, Thasano and 
Phonengam centers; the sub-station at KM35, will implement its activity under direct 
supervision of Thasano center.  
 
For Component 2, NAFRI will coordinate with the National Agriculture and Forestry 
Extension Service (NAFES) of MAF, for supporting of agriculture extension work 
through the Provincial and District Agriculture and Forestry Offices (PAFOs/DAFOs).  
NAFES will ensure that the Lao Extension Approach (LEA) is properly translated into 
the implementation at both provincial and Kum Ban levels.  
 
To provide a best practice on the use of fertilizer, in consultation with the Bank team, 
the specific guidelines will be prepared by NAFES to include into the Operational 
Manual, and training will be provided to provincial and Kum Ban extension staff.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The project Component 1 will be implemented directly by Thasano, Phonengam, Naphok 
rice seed center and the KM35 sub-center. The centers under supervision of NAFRI will 
prepare the implementation plan accordingly and the results of activity implementation 
will be included in the project progress report.  
 
For Component 2, activities will be carried out under the supervision of extension 
agents of the PAFO/DAFO system at the Khum Ban level and in support of farmers 
organized in groups at the village level. The extension staff will be trained properly on 
Lao Extension Approach as well as the best practice on the use of fertilizer. The farmers 
groups will be established and get trained before implementation of activity.  A report to 
share the experiences and lessons learn will be submitted by the PAFOs at each one of 
the participating provinces to NAFRI and NAFES after each activity cycle.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Page  6
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/24/2008 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
12/22/2008 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/12/2009 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The only document expected to be disbursed is the Indigenous People Participation 
Framework.  The other documents will not be disclosed since the policies are not 
triggered.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
No 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
No 
Page  7
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Richard H. E. Chisholm 
10/15/2008 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Viengkeo Phetnavongxay 
10/20/2008 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Sybounheung Phandanouvong 
10/20/2008 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Daniel R. Gibson 
10/16/2008 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jose Vicente Zevallos 
10/19/2008 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Rahul Raturi 
10/20/2008 
Comments:   
