Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4224 
Project Name 
LAO PDR:  Rice Productivity Improvement Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Crops (30%); Food Crisis Emergency Response (70%) 
Project ID 
P114617 
Borrower(s) 
LAO PDR 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) through its National 
Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI) 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 9, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
N/A 
Date of Board Approval 
November 14, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Lao PDR faces serious challenges in addressing food security, with parts of the population also 
facing the compounded effects of food and agricultural input price surges together with a recent 
flood disaster.  With a rapidly increasing population, of which only about one third can be 
considered fully food secure in terms of 12 month rice availability, the country faces serious 
constraints.  Presently, those living in isolated areas of the uplands frequently face rice shortages 
for 3-4 months or more of the year, especially in the mid to late wet season. Food prices, which 
normally vary by only 6-8% within a year and up to15% in drought years, have risen by around 
40.2% since November 2007 
1
.
This has particularly impacted a major proportion of the rural 
households, which in part due to low productivity, are estimated by World Food Programme 
(WFP) to be food insecure.  Although official statistics on national rice productivity indicate a 
slow improvement  from 1.9 t/ha in 1987 to over 3t/ha today, productivity growth still lags far 
behind the improvements realized in neighboring countries such as Vietnam, where a 
combination of better varieties, better quality seed and balanced fertilizer regimes have resulted 
in a spectacular growth in production. 
 
Rice yields and total production are not matching population growth rate.  Without a concerted 
effort to both increase productivity and improve the purchasing power of isolated communities, 
the country will face a serious problem of food insecurity.  Rural poverty is high and two thirds 
of the rural population has a weak livelihood base, which puts them at risk of facing one or more 
shocks per year. In addition, chronic malnutrition is severe, and every second child in rural areas 
is chronically malnourished; malnutrition has not changed over 10 years of rapid economic 
growth.  More recently, record floods on the Vientiane Plain and in areas adjacent to the Mekong 
River have caused significant losses of quality rice seed and vegetable supplies. 
1
Source: World Bank Lao PDR Country Economic Update July 2008; and
 
World Bank (2008) 
Lao PDR: Policy, 
Market, and Agriculture Transition in the Northern Uplands
 . 
Page  2
In order to assist Lao PDR to respond rapidly to its food security challenges, the World Bank 
proposes to provide emergency support for: (i) a rapid improvement in agricultural productivity 
to increase food security at the household and village levels, as described in this document; and 
(ii) a nutritional improvement project to complement existing financing of the Lao PDR Health 
Improvement Project.  Both operations will be financed by grants from the Bank-financed Food 
Price Crisis Response (FPCR) Trust Fund under the Global Food Crisis Response Program 
(GFRP).  
 
2. Objectives 
 
The Project Development Objective would be to increase rice productivity and overall volume of 
rice production among smallholders in four selected provinces, thereby substantially increasing 
incomes and improving food security for small farm households.  This would result in reducing 
the seasonal and disaster related shortages of rice in the short run, as well as reducing the impacts 
of rising food prices and population increases in the longer term. 
 
These objectives would be achieved through: (i) improvements in the capacity of the public 
sector (research centers and seed multiplication stations) to produce larger quantities of high 
quality seed (breeder, foundation and registered seed) of the most appropriate varieties for the 
different Lao conditions; and (ii) establishment of a system of seed multiplication by small 
farmers’ groups based on the use of modern high yielding technical packages, that would 
demonstrate the benefits of this improved technology and would start the process of creating a 
sustained demand for high quality seed and other high yielding inputs.   
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank can bring international experience and lessons learned in the implementation of 
projects of this nature, where there is a need to strengthen the capacity of the government 
agencies to provide public goods, parallel to supporting the adoption of improved technology by 
small rural households.  Experience shows that short term subsidies can result in longer term 
sustainability where they result in an improved household capacity and confidence in purchasing 
high quality and yield increasing inputs.  At present, given the low levels of yields and net 
income, the cost of incremental seed and fertilizer is not attractive and probably explains why 
farmers are reluctant to use yield improving inputs. 
 
The Project is consistent with the overall country strategy for poverty reduction and sustainable 
resource management, particularly in rural areas where most of the poor reside.  It complements 
existing projects (Nam Theun Social and Environment Project, Khammouane Development 
project, Lao Poverty Fund Project), which are also focused on the southern provinces and on 
rural development and poverty alleviation.  By addressing low rice yields and farmer income, in 
a
manner which addresses long term Government capacity in delivery of services, it also 
promotes the good governance aspects of the Bank’s assistance strategy to Lao PDR.  
 
The Bank has a long and diverse experience in working with public sector institutions and their 
rationalization reforms, as well as in assessing public versus private sector roles in operations 
world wide.  In an operation of this nature involving seed of an open pollinated crop, there is 
Page  3
little initial incentive for private sector participation.  The lack of private sector interest in rice 
seed multiplication in Laos, given the lack of demand and the absence of market capture as in 
hybrid seed, has been verified by field work in Savannakhet and Thailand. 
 
The Bank is particularly well suited to provide emergency assistance, keeping proper attention to 
environmental, social and fiduciary issues at the same time.  An emergency intervention to 
restore and develop foundation (R1) and registered (R2) seed production at Seed Multiplication 
Stations and high yield extension (R3) seed production by farmer groups, would not only provide 
short t
erm improvements to food security, but also help meet the country’s requirements for rice 
seed supply and improve productivity in a sustainable manner.  
 
4. Description 
 
Component 1: Support to Rice Seed Multiplication Stations (base cost around $1.37 
million).  
 
This component would address the rundown in critical equipment and infrastructure in 
Government Seed Multiplication stations to provide for secure separation of varieties and 
production of clean, dry, weed free, high quality R1 and R2 seed for later multiplication as R3 
seed for general use by farmer groups under component 2.  Most stations cannot guarantee 
adequate germination rates because of inadequate drying capacity and cold storage for R1 seed. 
They cannot guarantee separation of varieties because of the lack of cleaning equipment and 
poorly designed grading and drying systems. Agricultural machinery is unreliable and 
inadequate. The key assumption is that the whole 
system
 of seed production centers must be 
addressed because inadequate quality at one center affects the others through R1 and R2 seed 
shared between centers. 
 
The Project would provide equipment for production, drying, grading, packaging, cool storage, 
as well as small training facilities and transportation at selected government research centers and 
seed multiplication stations located in Savannakhet (Thasano station and KM35 sub-station)), 
Champasak (Phonengam and outgrower areas) and Vientiane (Naphok Central Seed Station).  In 
addition, the project would provide support to establish a small seed laboratory at Naphok 
Central Station which is considered essential for ensuring quality standards.  The additional 
support to be provided to the Naphok Center would be complementary to the ongoing RISEP 
project funded by JICA. Equipment to support soil testing and seed certification would be 
supplied to the NAFRI soils and seeds laboratories. Foreign and local technical assistance would 
be required for this component.  In addition, these research centers and seed multiplication 
stations would provide technical support to Component 2 by supporting the Khum Ban level of 
government in the process of selection and training of the farmer seed multiplication groups to 
be created under the second component.  It is proposed that the Thasano Research Center in 
Savannakhet would support R2 seed to be multiplied by farmers groups in Savannakhet and 
Khammouane, while the Phonengam would provide R2 seed to groups in Champassak and 
Saravan Provinces.  
 
Component 2: Support to Kum Ban and Village Level Farmer Groups (base cost estimate 
$1.21 million) 
Page  4
This component would establish and support up to 200 farmer groups of about 20 farmers each 
in about 70 Kum Bans in each of four provinces (Khammouane, Savannakhet, Champassak and 
Saravan). The project would work with farmers for six seasons. Peak group numbers would be 
achieved by the dry season of 2010, one year after effectiveness, with a scaling down at the end 
of the fifth season. The component  would operate through Kum Ban ( village cluster) and 
Village Development Committees. Technical support and monitoring would be provided by 
Senior Consultant based at the Seed Multiplication stations as coordinators and Junior 
Consultants (recent graduates) operate mainly with farmers at village level to supervise and 
monitor demonstrations comparing existing and improved practice.  The work would also be 
supported by PAFO, DAFO and Kum Ban staff (strengthened by the project) where those 
organizations have representation at the Kum Ban or village level (as determined by field 
surveys). This technical assistance methodology based on farmer groups is in line with the Lao 
Extension Approach develop under SDA assistance and endorsed as policy by NAFES in 2005. 
Inputs for demonstrations would be provided as grants to farmers to allow up scaling of 
improved seed and seed multiplication systems developed at the research centers and seed 
stations, and improved NPK and micronutrient based fertilizer regimes (with straw retention on 
the field), resulting from research by IRRI in the 1990s.  These inputs would need to be 
distributed initially to about 40 groups by May 2009, in time for the rainfed planting season. The 
baseline survey and methodology for group formation would be developed under a contract to a 
locally based INGO to be implemented during February
–May 2009  Based on previous work, it 
is estimated that seed and fertilizer packages would raise productivity levels from existing levels 
of 2.5- 3.5 tons per ha across rain fed upland and irrigated lowland areas by at least 20% using 
improved seed alone and by a further 50-60% with the fertilizer package. Sustainability of the 
inputs would be addressed by developing sales of non glutinous varieties at higher prices once 
household food security was achieved.  Eligibility for the assistance would be governed by 
criteria to be agreed among the Bank, the GoL, Provincial Governments and communities.  
Criteria would include adequacy of irrigation systems or rainfed land area, management ability 
and interest, poverty status and long term interest in seed production as a business.  
 
The participating farmer groups would receive ongoing monitoring and training in the use of the 
packages. However, ultimate responsibility for success would depend on the self discipline of the 
village and the farmer group under a Village Responsibility system. The disincentive for actions 
such as selling off the seed and fertilizer for cash would be that the farmer group and if 
necessary, the village would be excluded from support in the second season. 
 
Component 3: Management Monitoring and Evaluation (base cost estimated US$0.42 
million). 
 
This component would support overall project management and coordination, as well as the 
implementation of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, all under NAFRI.  The expected 
M&E activities would include a baseline survey, monitoring surveys and the final evaluation 
report.  Capacity building will include training of agricultural college student enumerators in 
preparation for a future role in technical support. 
 
Page  5
Routine implementation would be the responsibility of a small project management team at 
NAFRI consisting of a Project Director and Procurement and Financial Management specialists 
and short term consultants. The project would use a country systems approach given the 
experience of NAFRI in donor-financed projects of this nature and the availability of supporting 
consultants in the country with experience in Bank procedures.  
 
The Monitoring and Evaluation System would be implemented under a consulting contract, with 
the assistance of consultants based at the Seed Multiplication Stations, student enumerators and 
monitors, and a consultant M& E specialist for data analysis and final evaluation. Each 
participating village would be visited twice per month in the growing season and mobile phones 
supplied to farmer group leaders would be used to address day to day problems. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Special Financing 
3.0 
 Total 
3.0 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Overall Project Coordination and Management.   
The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) will be responsible for the project. It was 
agreed that the National Agricultural and Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI) would be in 
charge of overall responsibility for the coordination and management of project implementation, 
on behalf of MAF.  For this purpose, NAFRI would rely on its existing structure under the 
leadership of a Project Director.  The main responsibilities of NAFRI will be the following: 
(a) Preparation of the Project Operational Manual (POM) from inputs from the respective 
implementing agencies, ensuring its adoption by Government and monitoring its implementation.  
The adoption of this POM will have to be completed within three months of project 
effectiveness; 
(b) Compilation of the Annual Work Plans (AWPs) prepared in coordination with other participating 
agencies, ensuring consistency with the national policies and overall strategy for the country, as 
well as with the available resources, both human and financial (to be submitted to the Bank for 
discussion on an annual basis); 
(c) Prepare and update (when required) the respective Procurement Plans; 
(d) Establishment and maintenance of a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) System for the entire 
Project, making sure the system produces meaningful lessons to support strategic thinking about 
the expansion of the system and required policy decisions; 
(e) 
Assessing the Project’s progress status, identifying constraints and limitations, as well as 
suggesting ways to improve project performance and realigning the activities accordingly; 
(f)  Acting as the main counterpart for the Bank and other donors for matters related to the project. 
(g) Prepare and submit to the Bank: (i) the annual physical progress reports and financial statements, 
not later than April 30 of each year; (ii) the Mid-term Progress Report (around mid way into 
Page  6
project implementation); (iii) the annual auditing reports and management letters by the private 
independent auditors hired under TORs acceptable to the Bank, within six months of the end of 
each financial year; and (iv) the final Implementation Completion Report, not later than two 
months after the closing date of the Project. 
 
Responsibility for implementing Component 1 would lie primarily with the Seed Centers 
–
the 
objective of the project being to support their development as autonomous units, which are able 
to sustain their activities through self generated cash inflows (from the sale of seed). Presently 
the center at Thasano in Savannakhet falls under the provincial PAFO (only the salaries of the 9 
regular staff of the center are presently being paid from the PAFO budget – for meeting the rest 
of the costs, including new equipment, the center generates cash from seed sales). Under 
different arrangements, the center at Phonengam in Champasak, falls under NAFRI. The scale of 
operations here is considerably smaller, but this center too meets its seed production costs from 
revenue generated from sales. Under the project, the incremental seed production which the 
centers will produce, will be bought by the project for distribution to farmer groups under 
component 2. The centers will be provided support from NAFRI; as well as technical assistance 
to upgrade its technical capacity, and the managers will be supported to strengthen business 
skills. It will be necessary to add at least one deputy manager for each station – to be trained 
under the project. 
 
Responsibility for implementing Component 2 would be shared between NAFRI and the 
Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Offices (PAFO), with actual implementation responsibility 
lying at the Khum Baan and village level Government. At the villages which are selected from 
within the participating Khum Bans, farmer groups would be established; and extension agents 
would be designated to work with each farmer group. It is proposed that the project would 
contract with a local INGO initially to work with the NAFRI consultants and PAFO/DAFO and 
the extension agents at village level, in facilitating the process of group formation. Village group 
leaders and the local extension agents would receive training at the seed centers – and following 
the completion of this training, will be provided with the package of inputs for planting a 
maximum of 0.5 hectare per household per season. Technical assistance would be provided to 
support the implementation of the component, as well as to monitor the quality of 
implementation. Overall it is proposed that the project start with 40 groups in first season of year 
1
(10 per province), gradually building up to a total of 200 groups by the end of year 2. With an 
estimated 20 households per group, the first level impact of the project would benefit as 
estimated 4000 households. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The proposed project addresses the need to provide investments with widespread short term 
benefits to food security. Key to providing such benefits is the need to develop a sustainable 
system for the distribution of improved seeds to communities and their multiplication, as a 
business, by seed stations and farmer entrepreneurs. Support for better management of organic 
and inorganic fertilizer is also needed and will be a part of the project. The project will serve as a 
pilot for the development of these procedures and the eventual involvement of the private sector, 
when business opportunities exist and the nation’s intellectual property rights to varieties are 
protected. 
Page  7
With the research results of IRRI, NAFRI and other agencies, the basis exists in the short term to 
implement effective large scale demonstrations (perhaps 1000 farmers per province in 3 districts 
each of 4 key lowland provinces) using improved seed and fertilizer technology which would 
boost output and reduce poverty and food insecurity in the short term whilst also addressing 
medium term rice productivity improvement. Investments in the lowlands initially might include 
better seed multiplication, storage, delivery systems and multiplication systems down to farm 
level, (including the poorer more remote areas), plus better facilities and technically trained staff 
at central; level,  able to diagnose soil fertility and seed problems. Sufficient inputs of correctly 
balanced fertilizer and good seed to effectively demonstrate good agricultural practice in 
irrigated and reliable rainfed lowland areas, would form a key part of demonstrations.  
 
The benefits to Laos in the short term are very high. Incremental production of 1.2t/ha (about 
40% on average) from the seed and fertilizer packages applied to only 800ha (80 farmer groups) 
in the first year would generate seed for a further 13,000 ha in the following wet season. At the 
harvest of that crop, 18 months from the initial plantings, incremental production of 0.5 t/ha even 
without fertilizer (6500 tons rough rice) in non-project areas can be valued based on 2008 prices 
at $1.625 million - half of project cost. More importantly it would end annual food insecurity for 
about 10,000 households.  
 
By project completion, even if only 25% of the farmer groups to be supported emerge as long 
term seed producers, enough quality seed will have been produced (over consumption 
requirements) to completely replace, by trading between farmers, all of the sown area of project 
provinces- about 500,000 ha. The annual productivity impact over that are would be about 
250,000 tons. These benefits arise so quickly because of the benefit to yield of seed quality (15-
25%) and fertilizer (50-60%)  Effectively monitored demonstrations are, however, key to 
success.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector  
 
The proposed project design is largely based on similar earlier interventions undertaken under 
the ACIAR supported Increasing Crop Yields project (2002-07) and the Pilot Extension Project 
(1998). In both of those interventions, improved seed and fertilizer inputs had a major impact on 
productivity, with seed alone increasing yields by up to 20% and even small doses of fertilizer  
increasing yields by 1.2t/ha. However, the proposed project also addresses the problem of 
poverty among farmers as this affects their ability to pay for such inputs in the medium term 
after project completion. Lessons from private sector involvement in maize seed production in 
Savannakhet show that both private sector marketers and farmer producers can develop 
successful contract farming businesses based on cross border trade with Thailand. The same 
could be true of trade in non-glutinous rice as Thailand faces pressure to boost rice output to 
meet expected demand until 2015
2
The institutions involved in seed research, production and multiplication have been receiving 
assistance from SIDA through a longer term Technical Assistance program.  However, their 
focus has almost exclusively been on work related to farming systems for upland areas. NAFRI 
2
World Bank 2008 World Development Report: Agriculture 
Page  8
has only recently taken over responsibility for seed improvement but is handicapped by shortage 
of budget. Strengthening both the Seed Multiplication Stations and NAFRI should assist food 
security in both uplands and lowlands because of the improvement in availability and quality of 
seed for uplands and lowlands alike.. 
 
The Bank has complementary poverty reduction and health and nutrition projects. Other donors 
(EU, AFD, KfW, and SIDA) are providing technical support to upland development whilst the 
main future focus of ACIAR interventions in research will be in the lowlands. 
 
Based on both the short term urgency of saving the seed multiplication system and the medium 
term demands of a growing population, the design demands simplicity, and ease of 
implementation for timely delivery of the equipment, services and civil works to NAFRI and 
seed stations and the seed and fertilizer packages to a wide geographic area representing rice 
producers in the country’s key production provinces. The proposed project will significantly 
alleviate food shortages and provide a demonstration of how a combination of standard operating 
procedures can be used to develop a workable and sustainable seed production and outreach 
system with minimum public funding. For farmers it will demonstrate not only how to increase 
output but how to make a successful business out of rice production in addition to meeting food 
security needs. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Environmental Assessment.
 
The overall environmental impacts of the proposed Project would 
be positive. The possibility of any adverse impacts is insignificant.  Therefore, the Project has 
been classified as Category C.  However, specific measures would be included in project design 
to ensure there are not significant environmental impacts during implementation.  Simple 
Environmental Guidelines would be prepared summarizing these measures, which would form 
part of the RPIP’s Operational Manual.  
 
The seed and fertilizer package distributed to vulnerable families through DAFO/PAFOs and 
associated NGOs and VDC would be accompanied by basic instructions on proper uses, as well 
as on the need to carry out village level soil testing to determine adequate quantities of 
application.  This assistance would have multiple benefits including maximizing the economic 
value of the activities at farm level, providing valuable data on soil status and limitations as well 
as reducing any negative environmental influences resulting from the intervention.    
 
Social Assessment.
 
The social impact of the activities is expected to be significant and positive.  
The activities with basic assistance will greatly improve household food security . Activities in 
the uplands will provide positive benefits to ethnic minorities. Selection criteria in the lowlands 
would include adequate representation of minority households where such households are 
present.  Increased rice seed production will increase farm incomes considerably, alleviating 
rural poverty and enhancing ability to produce food. Allowance has been made for both initial 
consultation with Village Development Committees and Kum Baan level administrations as well 
as ongoing disclosure through a website, notice boards and radio presentations and press articles. 
Consultants will be hired for continuous supervision of field activities, but a village 
responsibility system will be the key to sustainable outcomes. 
Page  9
Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP/BP 4.12): Not Triggered
.
Under Component 1, Support 
to Rice Seed Centers, all of the proposed civil works are of small scale and they would be 
undertaken within the existing land areas of the government research centers and stations, no 
land acquisition and resettlement of local people will be required.  No additional land outside the 
current boundaries of the above mentioned centers and stations would be needed and, therefore, 
resettlement of the surrounding communities would not be triggered for renovation and 
construction works under the PRIP.  
 
Indigenous People Policy (OP/BP 4.10): Triggered.
 
Under the proposed Component 2, 
Support for Farmer Seed Groups and On Farm Demonstrations,
 
the Project would support the 
formation of up to 200 small farmer groups in about 80 Khum Bans (village clusters) in the four 
selected provinces. This component would cover some ethnic communities especially in the 
upland areas where diverse ethnic groups with their own culture and languages are dwelling and 
where the poverty incidents mostly found. 
3
These ethnic farmers whose livelihood is heavily 
based on primitive agricultural practice and natural resources are considered to be vulnerable 
group of people in the rural Lao context.  Therefore, the RPIP would need to pay special 
attention and provide support that would facilitate their effective participation in the 
demonstration activities using the Lao Extension Approach.  A draft Ethnic Minority 
Participation Framework (EMPF) has been prepared, with the objective of providing direction in 
the process of facilitating the effective participation of ethnic farmers in the whole cycle of 
demonstration activities.  A final version of this EMPF, acceptable to the Bank, will be finalized 
and adopted by GOL within one month of project effectiveness.  
 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
World Food Programme (1998) Comprehensive Food Security and Vulnerability Analysis Lao 
PDR 
Australian Center for International Agricultural Research (2008).  Improving Crops Yield 
Project, Savannakhet Province, Lao PDR Project Impact Survey Report. ACIAR Canberra 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Richard Chisholm, Senior Agriculturalist, Task Team Leader; EASRE 
(
rchisholm@worldbank.org
)
ph
1
202 4588591 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
3
LECS3, 2005. 
Page  10
