                                          Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                        ReportNo: 46010-LAO




                      FOODPRICE CRISIS RESPONSETRUST FUND

                              EMERGENCY PROJECTPAPER

                                              ONA

                                      PROPOSEDGRANT

              UNDERTHE GLOBALFOOD CRISIS RESPONSEPROGRAM

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$3.0MILLION

                                             TO THE

                        LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                             FORA

                     RICE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                       December 22,2008




RuralDevelopment,Natural Resources andEnvironment SectorUnit
SustainableDevelopment Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

This documenthas arestricteddistribution and maybe usedbyrecipientsonly inthe
performanceo ftheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective September20,2008)

                             CurrencyUnit = LaoKip
                                 Kip8850 = US$1

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 - December31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB       Asian Development Bank
ACIAR     Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research
ADP       Agriculture Development Project
AUSAid    Australian Agency for International Development
AFD       Agence Franqaise de Dtveloppement
CIAT      Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (Colombia)
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DAFO      District Agriculture andForestry Office
EMP       EnvironmentalManagement Plan
EU        European Union
ERR       Economic internal rate o freturn
FA0       Foodand Agriculture Organization o fthe UnitedNations
FIRR      Financial internalrate of return
FM        Financial management
GFRP      Global FoodCrisis Response Program
FPCR      Food Crisis Response Program Trust Fund
GOL       Governmento fLaos
Ha        Hectare
INGO      International Non-Government Organization
I F I S   International Financial Institutions
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
I C Y     Improving Crop Yields Project (ACIAR supported)
IFAD      International Fundfor Agricultural Development
IFR       InterimFinancialReport
IRRI      International Rice Research Institute
JICA      Japan International CooperationAgency
MAF       Ministryo fAgriculture andForestry
MoF       MinistryofFinance
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFES     National Agriculture and Forestry ExtensionService
NAFREC    NationalAgriculture and ForestryResearch and ExtensionCenter(Luang Prabang)
NAFFU     NationalAgriculture andForestry Research Institute
N C B     National Competitive Bidding
NGO       Non-governmental organization

                                                                       FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


     NTSEP          Nam Theun Social and Environment Project
     PAFO           Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Office
     PDO            Project Development Objective
     PrMO           Procurement Monitoring Office
     PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
     RISEP          Rice SeedMultiplication SystemImprovementProject
     RPIP           Rice Productivity Improvement Project
     RRSMCs         Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Centers
     SDA            Swiss Development Association
     SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
     UNDP           United Nations Development Program
     VDC            Village Development Committee
     WFP            World FoodProgram




                                     Vice President:     James Adams
                                   Country Director:     Annette Dixon
                                    Country Manager      Patchamuthu Illangovan
                                    Sector Manager:      Rahul Raturi
                                  Task Team Leader:      Richard Chisholm


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATICREPUBLIC
                   RICE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                                                      CONTENTS


A.Introduction..............................................................................................................................      1

B.  EmergencyChallenge. CountryContext. andRational                                         ....................................................  2
  1. Emergency Challenge .........................................................................................................                2
 2.  Country Response Strategy.................................................................................................                   3
 3. Rationale for Bank Involvement.........................................................................................                       4
 4.   Eligibility for fhding under GFRCP .................................................................................                       4
 5.  Consistency with Country Strategy (CAS) .........................................................................                            5

C. .The proposedRice ProductivityImprovementProject                                         ....................................................  5
  1  Project Development Objective ..........................................................................................                     5
 2.  Project Descnption.............................................................................................................. 5
                     . .
 3. Expected Outcomes o f the Project...................................................................................... 7

D.  Appraisalof ProjectActivities               .............................................................................................     9
  1. Technical Aspects ...............................................................................................................            9
 2.  Proposed Target Areas ......................................................................................................                10
 3.  FinancialAssessment........................................................................................................                 10
 4.  Fiduciary Arrangements....................................................................................................                  12
 5.  Safeguards Aspects. ..........................................................................................................              14
 6.  Other factors affecting Design andLessons Learned .......................................................                                   15

E.  ImplementationArrangements                   ..........................................................................................      16
 1.  Institutional Arrangements for Project Implementation...................................................                                    16

F
.   ProjectRisksandMitigatingMeasures                          ............................................................................      18

G.  Terms for ProjectFinancing              ..............................................................................................       18
 1.  Disbursement Conditions..................................................................................................
                             . .
                                                                                                                                                 18
 2.  Implementation Covenants ...............................................................................................                    19

                    LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                RICE PRODUCTIVITYIMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                                CONTENTS




Annex 1:CountryBackgroundandProjectDescription                                .........................................................    21
Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkandProjectMonitoringandEvaluation                                                                                 30
Annex 3: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................
                                                                                                          ................................
                                                                                                                                           32
Annex 4: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                               .................................... 34
Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements               .....................................................................................       45
Annex 6 : ImplementationandMonitoringFramework                .......................................................................
                                                                               ........................................................    51
Annex 7: ProjectPreparationandSupervision                                                                                                   59
Annex 8 FinancialAnalysis   .......................................................................................................         60
Annex 9: Country at Glance                                                                                                                  66
Annex 10: MAPNo 36573
                 .        .........................................................................................................
                              .....................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                            68

Date: December 22,2008                           Team Leader: Richard Chisholm
Country Director: Annette Dixon                  Sectors: Rural Development Sector
Sector Manager: Rahul Raturi                     Themes: Crops, Global FoodCrisis
Lendinginstrument: ERL                           Environmental screening category: C




Project ID(s): P114617                          Total Amount: US$3.0 million
Proposed terms: 100percent grant basis          Expectedimplementation period: February 1
                                                2009- December 31,20 11
Expectedeffectiveness date: February 1,
2009
Recipient: People's Democratic Republic o f     Responsible agency: National Agricultural and
Laos                                            Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI)     --
                                                MinistryofAgriculture andForestry(MAF)


The main objective i s to increase rice productivity and overall volume o f rice production
among smallholders in selected provinces, thereby increasing incomes and improving food
security for small farm households. This would result in reducing the seasonal and disaster
related shortages o frice inthe short run, as well as reducing the impacts o f rising food prices.

These objectives will be achieved through: (i)improvements in the capacity o f the public
sector (research centers and seed multiplication stations) to produce larger quantities o f high
quality seed (breeder, foundation and registered seed) o f the most appropriate varieties for the
different Lao conditions; and (ii)  establishment o f a system o f seed multiplication by small
farmers' groups based on the use o f modern high yielding technical packages that would
demonstrate the benefits o f this improved technology and would start the process o f creating a
sustained demandfor highquality seed and other inputs for highyields.

Project Components.

Component1:Support to Rice Seed Multiplication Stations (base cost $1.32 million).
Component2: Support to KumBahn and Village Level FarmerGroups (base cost $1.09
million).
Component3: ManagementMonitoring andEvaluation(base cost $0.59 million).

Source                                          Local             Foreign               Total
Borrower
World Bank -- FCRP Trust Fund                    1.o                2.0                  3.O
Total                                            1.o                2.0                  3.0


                                  2009      2010        2011      2012
Annual                            1.oo      1.40        0.40      0.20
Cumulative                        1.oo      2.40        2.80      3.00
Does the emergency operationrequire any exceptions from Bankpolicies?           Yes [IN o [ XI
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                     Yes[] N o [ ]

Are there any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                Yes[X] No [I
What safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?,IndigenousPeoples                 Yes [XI N o [ 3
(OPBP4.10
Significant, non-standard conditions, ifany:

DisbursementConditions.

As a condition for disbursement of grant proceeds from Category 1: CivilWorks andGoods,
the Recipient shall select aninternationalprocurement consultant, as well as a financial
management consultant, to strengthen NAFRI's implementationcapacity and ensure
compliance with Bank's policies and procedures. The financial management consultant will
provide on-the-job trainingand supervision to the finance section inNAFRIand provide
assistanceto modify the existing Financial Management Manual to incorporatethe Bank
financial management and disbursement arrangements applicable to the Project.

ImplementationCovenants
GeneralConditions:

    (a) Adopt and disclose the Project's Ethnic Minority Participation Framework (EMPF),
    acceptable to the Bank, within one month o fthe signature ofthe grant agreement;
    (b) Prepare and adopt the Project's OperationalManual (covering all aspects o fthe
   project), within three months o fthe signature of the grant agreement;
    (c) NAFRIwill engage independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to carry out the audit
    o f the project financial statements annually, under Terms o fReference satisfactory to the
   Bank, prior to the end o f the first fiscal year

Procurement:

    (a) A qualified procurement staff will be assigned by NAFRI to serve as the focal point
         for coordination, consultation and follow-up o f procurement activities with NAFRI,
         line provincial departments, districts and villages, within three months o f the signature
         o fthe grant agreement;

   (b) For strengtheningtransparency and accountability in procurement process, an action
       plan for strengthening transparency for the project will be discussed, developed and
       adopted within three months o f the signature o f the grant agreement;
   (c) NAFRI will organize a procurement training workshop for the project implementing
       staff with assistance from the Procurement Monitoring Office (PrMO) o f M O F within
       one month o f the signature o f the grant agreement, and periodically during the life o f
       the project; and
   (d) NAFRIwill adopt a project procurement record and filing system acceptable to the
       Bank,withinthree months o fthe signature o fthe grant agreement.

Financial Management:

   (a) Recruit or appoint two more qualified financial staff to work assisting the project
       accountant inNAFRI,within three months o f the signature o fthe grant agreement;
   (b) Appoint two financial staff in each Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Station in
       selected provinces and provide training to them, within three months o f the signature
       o fthe grant agreement;
   (c) Within three months o f the signature o f the grant agreement, contract a financial
       management consulting findindividual to: (i)set up the accounting system for the
       Project, using the ACCPAC accounting software, and configure the InterimFinancial
       Reports (IFRs) inthe system, and (ii)  provide training to NAFRI's staff on the use o f
       the ACCPAC software.


A. INTRODUCTION

1.       Lao PDR faces serious challenges in addressing food security, with parts o f the
population also facing the compounded effects o f food and agricultural input price surges, and
the recent flood disaster. With a rapidly increasingpopulation, o fwhich only about one third can
be considered hlly food secure interms o f 12 month rice availability, the country faces serious
constraints. Presently, those living inisolated areas of the uplands frequently face rice shortages
for 3-4 months or more of the year, especially in the mid to late wet season. The food price
index, which normally vary by only 6 4 % within a year and up to15% in drought years, have
risen by around 40.2% since November 2007l.                 This has particularly impacted a major
proportion o f the rural households. Although official statistics on national rice productivity
indicate a slow improvement from 1.9 t/ha in 1987 to over 3tha today, productivity growth still
lags far behind the improvements realized in neighboring countries such as Vietnam, where a
combination o f better varieties, better quality seed and balanced fertilizer regimes have resulted
ina spectacular growth inproduction.

2.       Increases in rice yields and total production are not matching population growth rate.
Without a concerted effort to both increase productivity and improve the purchasing power o f
isolated communities, the country will face a serious problem o f food insecurity. Ruralpoverty
i s high and two thirds o f the rural population has a weak livelihood base, which puts them at risk
o f facing one or more shocks per year. In addition, chronic malnutrition i s severe, and every
second child in rural areas i s chronically malnourished; malnutrition has not changed over 10
years o f rapid economic growth. More recently, record floods on the Vientiane Plain and in
areas adjacent to the Mekong River have caused significant losses o f quality rice seed and
vegetable supplies.

3.       Inorder to assist Lao PDR to respond rapidly to its food security challenges, the World
Bank proposes to provide emergency support for: (i)a rapid improvement in agricultural
productivity to increase food security at the household and village levels; and (ii)      a nutritional
improvement project to complement existing financing o f the Lao PDR Health Improvement
Project. Both operations will be financed by grants from the Bank-financed Food Price Crisis
Response (FPCR) Trust Fund under the Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP). This
report presents the first of the above two operations.




1 Source: World Bank Lao PDRCountry Economic Update July 2008; and World Bank (2008) Lao PDR:Policy,
Market, andAgriculture Transition inthe Northern Uplands,,




                                                          1

B.      EMERGENCY     CHALLENGE,COUNTRY CONTEXT,AND RATIONAL

1.      EmergencyChallenge

4.      Immediate rice seed supply for the coming dry season i s under threat because o f record
floods o f August 2008 along the critical rice seed productionareas o f the Mekong corridor. This
has resulted in an unexpected shortage o f high quality supplies o f improved varieties o f rice
needed to sustain current grain output volumes.

5.      Moreover, the national seed production system (mainly relying on Government's
research centers and seed multiplication stations), which is the only source of quality fresh seed,
i s in imminent danger o f collapse. After many years o f underinvestment, the facilities at these
centers including physical, machinery and irrigation systems, are in urgent need o f major repair
or replacement. An urgent rehabilitation o f selected facilities to cater for the seed requirements
o f both lowland and poorer upland communities o f the country i s considered to be an essential
element to help improve yields and rice production inthe country.

6.      Official data indicates low levels o f productivity, where upland yields average 2.4mtha
and lowland 3.65mtha. Rainfed lowland production accounts for 77% of the total, with 14%
from the uplands and8% from irrigated areas. Government policy since 1990has beento reduce
uplandshiftingcultivation areas. The uplandrainfed areas decreasedby 56% from 1990to 2001
and further decreased by 50% from 2001 to 2005. The effective area of irrigated agriculture has
also decreased since 2001 by about 35,000 ha. Total rice production has increased by only 9%
from 2001 to 2005, about 2.1 %per year compared to a goal o f 3% inthe latest official policy.

7.      Ensuring food security in Lao PDR in both the short and medium term requires an
approach that recognizes the differences between the more remote, isolated and ethnically
diverse Uplands and the physically better endowed yet underdeveloped Southern and Central
Lowland provinces. The Government has recognized the need for such a two pronged approach
to food security through its dual emphasis on building diverse livelihoods, (with environmental
sustainability in agricultural systems) in the north and enhancing rice productivity (for overall
national food security) inthe irrigated and rainfed lowlands o f the center and south. Interms of
direct poverty reduction impact, an important challenge i s improving the targeting o f
productivity support to smallholder farmers who generally would realize the highest yield
increments from improved access to inputs and technical services.

8.      In responding to the crisis, there is an opportunity to address the more immediate
constraints being faced in the production and distribution o f quality rice, brought upon also on
account o f the recent floods. The limited upfront investment being proposed would allow for
very quickly restoring, and then significantly increasing both the quality and the quantity seed
production inthe country - thereby having a major impact on the total volume o frice production.
At the same time, the project will serve as a pilot for the development o f a sustainable system for
the distribution o f improved seeds to communities and their multiplication, and the eventual
involvement o f the private sector. The project would serve as a pilot for the development and the
eventual involvement o f the private sector, where business opportunities exist, and the nation's
intellectualpropertyrights to varieties are protected.



                                                 2

9.      With the high quality breeder seed provided as a result o f support by the International
Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and with the research results of the National Agriculture and
Forestry Research Institute(NAFR1) and other agencies available, the basis exists in the short
term to implement effective large scale demonstrations using improved seed and fertilizer
technology, which would boost output and reduce poverty and food insecurity in the short term
whilst addressing medium term rice productivity improvement. Investments in the lowlands
initially might include better seed multiplication at Seed Station level, storage, delivery systems
and multiplication systems down to farm level, (including the poorer more remote areas), plus
better facilities and technically trained staff at central level, able to diagnose soil fertility and
seed problems. Sufficient inputs o f correctly balanced fertilizer and good seed to effectively
demonstrate good agricultural practice in irrigated and reliable rainfed lowland areas, would
form a key part o f demonstrations.

2.      Country Response Strategy

10.     The Governmenthas recognizedthe growing problem o f general food insecurity, income
disparities and seasonal shortages o f food, particularly in the 47 poorest districts. The 2006 8th
National Party Congress recognized food production and security as the first priority agricultural
goals. The onset o f the food price crisis in November 2007 has exacerbated the urgency to
implement the national strategy to improve smallholders' rural incomes and food security. The
government's strategy includes four measures specifically addressedby this proposed Project:

        Improve availability and quality o f seedvarieties;
        Establish Village development groups to promote development efforts at the grassroots
        level;
        Establish production groups in pilot areas for promoting production, processing and
        marketing activities; and
        Increase agricultural productivity, by improving the use o f new technology (mainly
        fertilizers, compost, quality seeds and advanced breeding).

11.     More specifically, the national strategy calls for increased capacity o f seed multiplication
centers to achieve self financing and to increase capacity in extension and service delivery to
farmers. Service delivery i s to be achieved using village production groups to produce and
distributerice seed inresponse to demand.

12.     Unfortunately, the Government has lacked resources to implement this strategy
effectively on its own, but recognizes the need to respond even more urgently given the food
price crisis. Support from other donors including Asian Development Bank (ADB), Swedish
International Development Association (SIDA), World Food Programme (WFP), Australian
Center for international Agricultural Research (ACIAR) among others, has provided experience
in the development of Village Development Committees as locally trusted coordinators of
development.        The Bank has already supported grassroots extension and agricultural
development through the Nam Theun Social and Environmental Project (2004 ongoing) and the
Agriculture Development Project (2003-2008). The proposed Rice Productivity Improvement
Project (RPP)would specifically support seed and breed availability and improved production
technology.




                                                  3

3.      Rationalefor BankInvolvement

13.     The Bank is particularly well suited to provide emergency assistance, keeping proper
attention to environmental, social and fiduciary issues at the same time.               An emergency
intervention to restore and develop foundation (Rl) and registered (R2) seed production at Seed
Multiplication Stations and high yield extension (R3) seed production by farmer groups, would
not only provide short term improvements to food security, but also help meet the country's
requirementsfor rice seed supply andimproveproductivity ina sustainable manner.

14.     The Bank can also bring international experience and lessons learned in the
implementation o f projects o f this type, where there is a need to strengthen the capacity o f the
government agencies to provide public goods, parallel to supporting the adoption of improved
technology by small rural households. Experience shows that short term subsidies can result in
longer term sustainability where they result inan improvedhousehold capacity andconfidence in
purchasing high quality and yield increasing inputs. At present, given the low levels o f yields
andnet income, the cost o f incremental seed and fertilizer is not attractive andprobably explains
why farmers are reluctant to use yieldimproving inputs.

15.      The Bank has a long and diverse experience in working with public sector institutions
and their rationalization reforms, as well as in assessing public versus private sector roles in
operations world wide. In an operation o f this nature involving seed o f an open pollinated crop,
there i s little initial incentive for private sector participation. The lack o f private sector interest
inrice seedmultiplication inLaos, giventhe lack of demandand the absence ofmarket capture
as inhybrid seed, has been verified by field work inSavannakhet and Thailand.

16.      The Project is consistent with overall country strategy imperative for poverty reduction
and sustainable resource management, particularly in rural areas where most o f the poor reside.
It complements existing projects (Nam Theun Social and Environment Project, Khammouane
Development project, Lao Poverty Fund Project), which are also focused on the southern
provinces and on rural development and poverty alleviation. By addressing low rice yields and
farmer income, in a manner which addresses long term Government capacity in delivery o f
services, it also promotes the good governance aspects o f the Bank's assistance strategy to Lao
PDR.

4.      Eligibilityfor fundingunderGFRP

17.     The project falls within the Bank's mandate under the Global Food Crisis Response
Program (GFRP), which was established by the Bank on May 29, 2008. This Program has the
objectives o fproviding help to: (i) the impact of highand volatile food prices on the lives
                                        reduce
of the poorest segments of the population in a timely way;            (ii)support governments inthe
design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse impacts o f high and more volatile food
prices on poverty while minimizing the creation o f long-term market distortions; and (iii)      support
broad-based growth inproductivity and market participation in agriculture to ensure an adequate
and sustainable food supply response. Poverty count in the Lao PDR (based on the National
Standard of $1.5 per day) has improved from 46% in 1992 to 33% in 2003, but disparities
remain, with poverty higher along the Vietnamese border than the Thai border, in rural areas
compared to cities and in uplands versus lowlands. In terms o f vulnerability, only about one



                                                     4

third o fthe population can be considered fully food secure interms of 12month rice availability.
By addressing food production inthe lowlands and ensuringthe preservation and use o f unique
uplandvarieties, the project will addressbothgroups.

18.     The proposed project inLao PDR meets the basic criteria for receiving support under the
GFRP, basedon the fact that the country meets the following criteria:

        (a) I s eligible for IDA support;
        (b) Hasbeenimpactednegatively bythe risingprice o ffood;
        (c) Has limited fiscal resources to address the crisis and limited or no access to other
            sources o f funding for crisis response.
5.      Consistency with Country Strategy (CAS)

19.     The present CAS has been designed to support the 2001 National Growth and Poverty
Eradication Strategy (NGPES). The project responds to the over-arching need to reduce poverty
in Lao PDR and contributes directly to a fundamental objective of developing capacity and
partnerships. The project is consistent with the CAS focus on sustainable management o fnatural
resources in rural areas, where the poverty i s most pervasive. Equally importantly, the project
complements well and it is consistent with the strategic thrusts o f the projects in the program
which focus on poverty alleviation.

c.      THEPROPOSEDRICE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

1.      Project Development Objective

20.     The development objective is to increase rice productivity and overall volume o f rice
production among smallholders in selected provinces, thereby increasing incomes and improving
food security for small farm households. This would result inreducingthe seasonal and disaster
related shortages ofrice inthe short run, as well as reducing the impacts o f rising food prices.

21.     These objectives would be achieved through: (i)       improvements in the capacity o f the
public sector (research centers and seed multiplication stations) to produce larger quantities o f
highquality seed (breeder, foundation andregistered seed) of the most appropriate varieties for
the different Lao conditions; and (ii)   establishment o f a system o f seed multiplication by small
farmers' groups based on the use o f modem high yielding technical packages, that would
demonstrate the benefits o f this improved technology and would start the process o f creating a
sustained demand for highquality seed andother highyieldinginputs.

2.      Project Description

22.     Component 1: Support to Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Centers (base cost
$1.32 million).      This component would address the rundown in critical equipment and
infrastructure in Government Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Centers (RRSMCs) to
provide for secure separation o f varieties and production of clean, dry, weed free, high quality
R1 and R2 seed for later multiplication as R3 seed for general use by farmer groups under
component 2. Although IRRI support in the 1990s has provided the skills for breeding high
yielding modemvarieties and selecting the best traditional lines, most stations cannot guarantee



                                                  5

adequate germination rates because o f inadequate drying capacity and cold storage for R1 seed.
The key assumption i s that the whole system of seed production centers must be addressed
because inadequate quality at one center affects the others through R1 and R2 seed shared
between centers.

23.     The Project would provide equipment for production, drying, grading, packaging, cool
storage, as well as small training facilities and transportation at selected government research
centers and seed multiplication stations located in Savannakhet Province (Thasano station and
K M 3 5 Sub-station), Champassak Province (Phonengam and outgrower areas), Saravane
Province (Saravane Sub-station), Khammouane Province (Provincial Agricultural Training
Center Sub-station) and Vientiane (Naphok Central Seed Station). Inaddition, the project would
provide support to establish a small seed laboratory at Naphok Central Station which i s
considered essential for ensuring quality standards.

24.     The additional support to be provided to the Naphok Center would be complementaryto
the ongoing Rice Seed Multiplication System Improvement Project (RISEP) project funded by
the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which is active in farmer support in
Vientiane and Luang Namtha provinces. Equipmentto support soil testing and seed certification
would be supplied to the NAFRI soils and seeds laboratories. Foreign and local technical
assistance would be required for this component. In addition, these research centers and seed
multiplication stations would provide technical support to Component 2 by supporting the Kum
Bahn(village cluster) level o f government inthe process o f selection and training o f the farmer
seed multiplication groups to be created under the second component. It i s proposed that the
Thasano Research Center in Savannakhet would support R2 seed to be multiplied by farmers
groups in Savannakhet and Khammouane, while the Phonengam Center would provide R2 seed
to groups inChampassak and Saravane Provinces.

25.     Component2: Support to Farmer Seed Groups and On-FarmDemonstrations(base
cost $1.09 million). This component would establish and support up to 200 farmer groups of
about 20 farmers each in about 70 Kum Bahns in each o f the selected provinces (Khammouane,
Savannakhet, Champassak and Saravane), as the basis for broader dissemination and scale up of
improved seed use. The project would work with farmers for six seasons. Peak group numbers
would be achieved by the dry season of 2010, one year after effectiveness, with a scaling down
at the end of the fifth season. The component would operate through Kum Bahn and Village
Development Committees. The disincentive for actions such as selling off the seed and fertilizer
for cash would be that the farmer group and if necessary, the village would be excluded from
support inthe second season.

26.    Technical support and monitoring would be provided by Senior Consultant based at the
Seed Multiplication stations as coordinators and Junior Consultants (recent graduates) operating
mainlywith farmers at village level to supervise and monitor demonstrations comparing existing
and improved practice. The work would also be supported by the Provincial Agricultural and
Forestry Offices (PAFO), District Agriculture and forestry Offices (DAFO) and KumBahn staff
(strengthenedby the project) where those organizations have representation at the Kum Bahn or
village level (as determined by field surveys). This technical assistance methodology based on
farmer groups, i s in line with the Lao Extension Approach develop under Swiss Development
Association (SDA) assistance and endorsed as policy by the National Agriculture and Forestry


                                                6

Extension Service (NAFES ,2005). The technical assistance would cover aspects o f production,
post harvest handling, storage, safe use o f pesticides among others. The technical consultants
would also be part o f the monitoring and evaluation team and their costs would be shared with
Component 3.

27.      Inputs for demonstrations would be provided to farmers to allow up scaling o f improved
seed and seed multiplication systems developed at the research centers and seed stations, and
improved Nitrogen-Phosphoms-Potassium (NPK) and micronutrient fertilizer packages
developed from research by IRRI in the 1990s. These inputs would need to be distributed
initially to about 40 groups by May 2009, in time for the rainfed planting season. The baseline
survey and methodology for group formation would be developed under a contract to a locally
based International Non Government Organization (INGO) to be implementedduring February-
May 2009 Eligibility for the assistance would be governed by criteria to be agreed among the
Bank, the GoL, Provincial Governments and communities. Criteria would include adequacy o f
irrigation systems or rainfed land area, management ability and interest, poverty status and long
term interest inseed production as a business.

28.      The participating farmer groups would receive ongoing monitoring and training inthe use
o f the packages. However, ultimate responsibility for success would dependon the self discipline
o f the village and the farmer group under a Village Responsibility system.

29.      Component3: ManagementMonitoringandEvaluation(base cost US$0.59 million).
This component would support overall project management and coordination, as well as the
implementation o f a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, all under NAFRI. The expected
M&E activities would include a baseline survey, monitoring surveys and the final evaluation
report. Capacity building will include training o f agricultural college student enumerators in
preparationfor a future role intechnical support.

30.      Routine implementation would be the responsibility o f a small project management team
at NAFRI consisting o f a Project Director and Procurement and Financial Management
specialists and short term consultants. The project would use a country systems approach given
the experience o f NAFRI in donor-financed projects o f this nature and the availability of
supporting consultants inthe country with experience inBank procedures.

31.      The Monitoring and Evaluation System would be implemented under a consulting
contract, with the assistance o f consultants based at the Seed Multiplication Stations, student
enumerators and monitors, and a consultant M& E specialist for data analysis and final
evaluation. Each participating village would be visited twice per month in the growing season
and mobile phones supplied to farmer group leaders would be used to address day to day
problems.

3.      ExpectedOutcomes of the Project

The expected outcomes for each component are:

32.      Component 1: Improvements in the capacity o f the public sector (research centers and
seed multiplication stations) to sustainably produce larger quantities of high quality seed



                                                 7

(breeder, foundation and registered seed) according to demand o f the most appropriate varieties
for different Lao conditions.

33.     Component 2:      Establishment o f a system o f seed multiplication by small farmers'
groups based on the use o f modem high yield technical packages, that would demonstrate the
benefits o f this improved technology and would start the process o f creating a sustained demand
for highquality seed and other inputs for higher yields and output prices.

34.     Component 3 Establishment o f a system o f management monitoring and evaluation in
NAFRIto supportthe development o fanintegrated seedproduction systeminthe longerterm.

OutcomeIndicatorsin the Project's ResultsFramework

35.     Component1:Supportto rice seed multiplicationstations.

    a   Increase of around 140 tons in the volume o f production o f R1 foundation and R2
        registered seeds from all o f its participating centers;

    a   Diversification of rice seed varieties (both upland and lowland glutinous and non
        glutinous varieties) available at seed centers, including least three (3) varieties o f seed
        from another center available at any one center;

    a   At least 2 days training at the stations per year provided to farmer leaders and
        technicians;

    a   At least 75% o f all seed produced (R1 and R2) under the project is sold or transferred to
        seedproducers, rather thanbeing sold as paddy.

36.     Component2 Supportto farmer feed groups andon-farmdemonstrations.

    a   At least 25% of all farmer groups formed adopting and maintaining use o f the
        recommended inputpackages;
    a   At least 30 % of rice produced under the project (R3) is soldtraded as seed rather than
        usedfor consumption;
    a   Annual gross incomes o f participating farmers in seed multiplication group activities
        increase by at least 20%;
    a   Reduction o f 80% in the average number o f months o f rice food insecurity for
        participatinghouseholds.

37.     Component3 ManagementMonitoringandEvaluation:

    a   Project management team established in NAFRIusing existing organizational structures
        and systems and operating with staff experienced in World Bank procurement and
        safeguards procedures;
    a   Baseline survey, group formation methodology and monitoring surveys in proposed
        demonstration areas completed on time;
    a   Improvement inoutput and productivityintarget areas quantified interms o fboth quality
        and quantity through timely data analysis.



                                                    8

D.      APPRAISALOF PROJECTACTIVITIES

1.      TechnicalAspects

38.     The project's main objective i s to increase rice productivity and overall volume o f
production among smallholders, thereby increasing their incomes and improving food security.
This would contribute to reduce their vulnerability to firther crop related shocks and disruption
to food stocks. The country has been experiencingthe compound impact of food and agricultural
input price surge, and a flood disaster and faces medium term challenges o f high population
growth rates compared to its agricultural resource base and rate o f productivity improvement.
The project would assist in reducing the impact o f floods in 2008 on rice seed availability in
2009 by assisting dry seasonproduction o f foundation seed andwould also address mediumterm
productivity challenges related to seed quality and balanced use o f fertilizer by farmers along
with practices to build organic matter in soils. The project will support the provision o f an
incremental 140 tons per year o f R2 seed and 24,000 tons o f good quality improved R3 rice seed
after 3 years by improving seed production and demand. The development o f key research
centers and substations will be under the leadership o f NAFRI given its mandate for seed
production inthe country. It would support seed multiplication at farm level as an alternative to
the current individual household system which uses R3 seed for consumption.            The project
would supply about 30kg o f improved seed and a fertilizer package over halfthe sown area (0.5
ha maximum) in the first two seasons (wet and dry seasons in irrigated areas and two wet
seasons in rainfed areas) o f each o f a planned 800, and 1600 families in seasons 1 and 2.
Household numbers would stabilize at 4000 in season 4 (second year). Support would move to
another, different, group within the same Kum Bahn every two seasons. Farmer Groups would
be supported by the INGO initially, which would train NAFRI contracted consultants,
DAFOPAFO, and farmer leaders. Additional training would occur at the Seed Stations, and
through study tours for farmer leaders inThailand. To demonstrate the impact o f better fertilizer
balance the project would supply 150kg o f improved NPK fertilizer, 75kg Urea and
micronutrients to each household for 2 seasons, with investment in fertilizer made using farmer
finance after the first 2 seasons. Previous studies indicate that about 50% o f farmers in target
areas o f the rainfed lowlands already use some form o f fertilizer. However, the necessary finance
to expand input use would result form improved incomes due to seed sales and to sale of a
portion o f surplus production as higher value aromatic varieties which are in demand in
Thailand.

39.     The logistics to bring the seed and fertilizer package to the intended recipients will be
coordinated by NAFRI, through its system o f Central and Provincial research centers and seed
stations, with substantial field involvement by the PAFODAFO extension agents. The local
coordinating function would be undertaken by the Village or Kum Balm (where formed)
Development Committees. The VDCs primary role i s to facilitate participatory decentralized
decision making in resource management, as organizations representative o f their communities
and trusted by villagers. They would support selection o f households for project involvement,
group formation and the distribution o f packages at the grassroots level. To date, adequate
experience has been gained for the establishment o f VDCs, including the Bank supported Nam
Theun Social and Environment Project (NTSEP) and Agriculture Development Project (ADP),
as well as various activities managed by Asian Development Bank (e.g. Smallholder



                                                9

Development Project in Khammouane, Savannakhet, Champassak, Saravane), private sector
agencies (Nam Theun 2 Power Corporation) Australian Centre for International Agricultural
Research (ACIAR), World Food Programme (WFP) and Swedish International Development
Association (SIDA), among others. These VDCs have increasingly been stepping in to support
Provincial, District and Kum Bahn level government in mobilizing the community to develop
andimprovelocal services.

40.      The proposed strategy for distribution i s in line with the strategies o f other organizations
such as ADB, United Nations Development Program (UNDP), International Fund for
Agricultural Development FAD, and others as well as the government strategy, which has been
supporting the creation of VDCs and Kum Bahn level Development Committees and Technical
Support Centers.      The facilitating partners to work with VDCs in the proposed project
implementation will be Provincial and District Extension Offices assisted as necessary under the
project andworking with farmer leaders.

2.       Proposed Target Areas

41.      The project will work in Khammouane (Watershed Management Protection Authority
(WMPA) and Nakai Plateau upland rainfed households, Downstream rainfed and irrigated areas
o f NT2 project), Savannakhet, Champasak (irrigated areas adjacent to the Mekong, plus rainfed
lowland and uplanddistricts) and irrigated and rainfed upland areas o f Saravane province. The
logic for choosing a surplus production area rather than the resource poor and remote uplands i s
that these areas have the greatest capacity to respond quickly to the food crisis. The Government
has formulated a broad food security strategy based around improvement o f livelihoods in the
uplands andimprovement inrice yields and production inthe lowlands to supply rice food needs
for the country. Districts have been tentatively identified but would be confirmed during
implementation. The main criteria used for final selection o f villages would include the level of
vulnerability and poverty, gender roles and labor requirements, management ability o f
households, availability o f reliable irrigation or adequate areas o f rainfed land of good quality,
and geographic spread so as to maximize impact on seed demand. Within the selected districts
only villages and households that meet the set criteria will be selected in close collaboration
between communities, district government officials, NAFRI,NAFES and the World Bank, prior
to implementation.

3.      Financial Assessment

42.     Food insecurity i s an issue that most acutely affects the most destitute farm families in
Lao PDR. For this reason, the seedfertilizer support packages are also targeted particularly to the
most vulnerable farm families- those inrainfed production areas. The economic argument in this
case, i s that the accrued household benefits from the intervention are greater since these farm
families experience the highest costs relative to income intheir production, and they are the most
at risk for food shortages owing to climate factors. Small farmers have less opportunity to raise
credit for the purchase o f seed material, they buy in small quantities and have no access to
"volume discounts" and their farms are often remote and poorly accessible. The poverty impact
by supplyingthese farmers with a short term subsidy inreturnfor involvement indemonstrations
will be significantly larger thanifthe packages were distributedrandomly or to simplymaximize
food production.



                                                  10

43.      Incremental production o f 1.2tha from the seed and fertilizer packages applied to only
800ha (80 farmer groups) in the first year would generate seed for a hrther 13,000 ha in the
following wet season. At the harvest of that crop, 18 months from the initial plantings,
incremental production o f 0.5 t/ha without fertilizer (6500 tons rough rice) in non-project areas
can be valued based on 2008 prices at $1.625 million - half o f project cost. More importantly it
would end annuaI food insecurity for about 10,000 households. By project completion, enough
quality seed will have been produced (over consumption requirements) to completely replace, by
trading between farmers, all o f the sown area o f project provinces- about 500,000 ha. The
annual productivity impact over that area would be about 250,000 tons from better seed alone.
These benefits arise so quickly because of the benefit to yield o f seed quality generally (15-25%)
and fertilizer on specialist seed farms (50-60%)        Effectively monitored demonstrations are,
however, key to success. Given these large short run benefits and the lack o f resources to
develop an adequate and accurate benefit stream, the preparation team considered that there was
no benefit incalculating a Financial Internal Rate o f Return (FIRR) or Economic Internal Rate o f
Return (EIRR). Instead the data of Annex 8 demonstrates the project benefits at farm level o f
either conventional or organic seed production for R2 or R3 seed production or R4 paddy
production with the improved packages. Inall cases, the rate o f return to family labor i s higher
than that available from day labor and the proportion o f income from surplus production sales
which i s needed to pay for inputs i s lower than for present systems.

44.      Assuming only 25% o f R3 ("extension" or potentially certifiable) seed produced by
households i s used as seed for sale or trade (rather than consumption) about 8000 tons o f high
quality seed would be produced each year. Assuming replacement o f seed with fresh R3 seed
every 3 seasons thereafter, that quantity alone would represent about 50% o f potential national
demand from the current sown area o f 700,000 ha. In the third year after project completion,
virtually all production would be influenced by improved seed quality as trade between
individual farmers affected the seed pool. This compares to less than 10 percent use o f poor
quality "improved" seed at present. Potentially, more than 200,000 households could benefit
from the improved R3 seed produced as a result o f the Project.

45.      The rationale at farm level for self reliance in producing clean certified seed vs. seed
retained from previous harvests i s very clear. Certified clean seed that has been properly stored,
and transported, and corresponds to internationally accepted seed standards accompanied by
equally certified fertilizer and reasonably adequate weather conditions i s guaranteed to increase
yields. Experience from the ACIAR supported Improving Crop Yields (ICY) project (2001-04)
demonstrates yield increases o f 1525% whilst similar gains o f up to 30% were demonstrated on
a United States Agency for International Development (USAID) hnded project on similar soils
in Kratie, Cambodia using clean reselected seed alone. Experience in Savannakhet on a GOL
sponsoredPilot Extension Project (1998) showed that even very modest inputsof fertilizer to the
wet season crop lifted yields 1.2 t/ha above local levels and that the value of the incremental
gains paid for the cost o f the package by a factor o f 10 within a year. Experience at Thasano
confirms such results and indicates that correct fertilizer adds a further 60% to yields.

46.     The impact o f the project on food security would accrue as quality seed increasingly
replaces seed retained from roughrice production, through the effect o f volume o f supply and the
ability to trade seed for rough rice at favorable terms. Impact on incomes would arise both from
increased yields and from devoting surplus production (Le. above about 2tha for a family o f


                                                  11

four) to export o fnon glutinous rice at prices about 80% higher than for glutinous lines. Annex 8
summarizes the impacts on net income per ha (for R2 production) and surplus income compared
to fertilizer and seed costs for R3 and R4 (self produced routine planting material) production.
Compared to a day labor rate o f 24000 kip, returns are attractive with project but present
conditions without project show that inputs are unattractive given the small surplus generated
and the relatively high percentage o f surplus income (over consumption ) they represent.

47.      Gross margin budgets are presented inAnnex 8. The data indicate that the project would
increase overall wet season yields on rainfed lands significantly, allowing both food security and
a surplus for export sales which would easily cover the cost o f inputs. Simply using better seed
i s another strategy to kick-start the adoption o f better practices from the existing low base.

4.       FiduciaryArrangements

48.      FinancialManagement(FM)Arrangements(see Annex 4). Theproject would operate
ina country with a highfinancial management (FM)risk environment. The project control risk
i s assessed as "moderate" after a number o f mitigation measures have been incorporated in the
project designed. The overall FMrisk, however, i s assessedas "substantial".         NAFRI's Finance
Section under the Department o f Administration will be in charge o f overall project financial
management, including planning andbudgeting, preparing annual financial statements, quarterly
interim financial reports, and ensuring the smooth flow o f funds to the respective project
activities. The Financial Section has extensive experience with a SIDA-funded project ($12
Million for year 2007-2012) and several small donors-funded projects. Extensive training will
be provided by Bank staff on the Bank's financial management and disbursement policies and
procedures during the project launch workshop.             An experienced financial staff has been
appointed as the Project Accountant and will be assisted with two local financial staff to be
contracted as local consultants. Two provincial financial staff will be appointed at each o f the
research centers and seed multiplication stations in the selected provinces and they will receive
training on preparation o f bank control book and monthly summary financial report to be
submittedto the NAFRIfor recording o f transactions into the accounting system. A consulting
contract will be procured to help: (i)    configure a separate accounting system for the proposed
RPIP usingthe same ACCPAC accounting software currently utilized by SIDA-funded project;
(ii)provide training to NAFRI's staff inthe use of ACCPAC; an (iii)modify the current
Financial Management Manual to incorporate the FM arrangement for the proposed RPIP. A
short term individual consultant will be also recruited to provide on-the-job training and day to
day supervision duringthe first six months o f the project implementation.

49.      Grant funds will flow from the Grant Account to the Designated Account (DA) to be
administered by the Ministry o f Finance (MOF). The DA will be opened at the Bank o f Lao in
Vientiane and M O F will have all authorized signatories. Inaddition, five Project Bank Accounts
will be opened at NAFRI (Vientiane) and at the four participating provinces (Khammouane,
Savannakhet, Saravane and Champslssak) for small expenditures.              M O F will transfer initial
advance equivalent to approximately four months expenditures to these five Project Bank
Accounts, which will be replenished monthly from the DA. NAFRI will be responsible for
preparing the withdrawal application to regularly replenish the DA from the Grant Account or
for any direct payment from the Bank.




                                                    12

50.    NAFRIwill be responsible for preparing the quarterly Interim Financial Reports (IFRs)
and annual project financial statements. The quarterly IFRs are not subject to audit and will have
to be submitted to the Bank within 45 days after the end of each quarter. Annual project
financial statements will be audited by independentauditors, accordingto the Term o f Reference
acceptable to the Bank, and will have to be submittedto the Bank within six monthsafter the end
o f each fiscal year. The cost o f audit is provided in the project budget and will be paid out o f
project funds as an authorized expenditure.

51.     Procurement Arrangements (see Annex 5).            A Bank procurement accredited staff
carried out a procurement capacity assessment during the project preparation in September,
2008, and follow-on discussion continued through appraisal. Assessment has been carried at
Administration and Personnel Division, National Agriculture & Forestry Research Institute
(NAFRI) which will be in-charge of conducting project procurement activities as the main
project implementing agency.      The procurement issues and risks for implementation o f the
proposed project are mainly related to: (i) inadequate procurement knowledge and experience in
Bank's procedures; and (ii) risks ofweak procurement environment inthe country, as aresult
                             the
o f which the pre-mitigation procurement risk under the Project i s considered to be "High".

52.     Giventhe fact that NAFRIdoes not have experience inproject implementationusingthe
World Bank's procurement policy and procedures, an action plan has been agreed to increase
NAFRI's capacity to carry out the procurement function. The mainactions are:

        (a)     A qualified individual international consultant, experienced in WB procurement
                procedures, would be engaged by NAFRIas Procurement Consultant for the first
                six months of project implementation for ensuring compliance in procurement
                process with the Bank's Guidelines and buildingprocurement capacity o f NAFRI
                staff;

        (b)     A qualified procurement staff will be assigned by NAFRIto serve as the focal
                point for coordination, consultation and follow-up o f procurement activities with
                NAFRI, line provincial departments, districts and villages, with support o f the
                procurement consultant;

       (c)      A detailed Procurement Planfor the three year o fproject implementationhas been
                prepared and agreed with the Bank;

       (d)      For strengthening transparency and accountability in procurement process, an
                action plan for strengthening transparency for the project will be discussed,
                developed and adopted within three months o f the signature of the grant
                agreement.    This action plan will include but not limited to the following
                elements: (i)using the standard format o f bidding documents, request for
                quotations and evaluation report issued by Procurement Monitoring Office
                (PrMO), Ministry o f Finance (MOF) for National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
                and Shopping procedures; (ii)enhanced disclosure o f procurement information
                i.e. annual procurement plan; a quarterly summary o f the contract award
                information for all procurement packages; (iii)establishing a procurement
                complaint handling mechanism, requiring integrity pacts, and sanctions



                                                 13

               procedures consistent with the Government Procurement Rules & Regulations o f
               PrMO-MOF, andthe Bank's requirements;

        (e)    NAFRI will organize a procurement training workshop for the project
               implementing staff with assistance from the PrMO o f M O F within one month of
               the signature o f the grant agreement, and periodically during the life o f the
               project; and

        (f)    NAFRIwill adopt a project procurement record and filing system acceptable to
               the Bank.

53.     With incorporation of the capacity strengthening measures and extensive requirements
for improving governance and increasing transparency and accountability in the procurement
process, the residual procurement risk under the Project i s "Substantial".             The detailed
procurement arrangements, including procurement methods, World Bank prior review
requirements, andthe initial Procurement Plan, are presented inAnnex 8.

5.      SafeguardsAspects.

54.     EnvironmentalAssessment. The overall environmental impacts o fthe proposed Project
would be positive. The possibility o f any adverse impacts is insignificant. Therefore, the Project
has been classified as Category C. However, specific measures would be included in project
design to ensure there are not significant environmental impacts during implementation. Simple
Environmental Guidelines would be prepared summarizing these measures, which would form
part ofthe RPIP Operational Manual.

55.     The seed and fertilizer package distributed to vulnerable families through DAFOBAFOs
and associated NGOs and VDC would be accompanied by basic instructions on proper uses, as
well as on the need to carry out village level soil testing to determine adequate quantities o f
application. This assistance would have multiple benefits including maximizing the economic
value o f the activities at farm level, providing valuable data on soil status and limitations as well
as reducing any negative environmental influences resultingfrom the intervention.

56.     Social Assessment. The social impact o f the activities is expected to be significant and
positive. The activities with basic assistance will greatly improve household food security.
Activities in the uplands will provide positive benefits to ethnic minorities. Selection criteria in
the lowlands would include adequate representation o f minority households where such
households are present. Increased rice seedproduction will increase farm incomes considerably,
alleviating rural poverty and enhancing ability to produce food.

57.     InvoluntaryResettlementPolicy (OP/BP 4.12): Not Triggered. Under Component 1,
Support to Rice Seed Centers, all of the proposed civil works are o f small scale and they would
be undertaken within the existing land areas o f the government research centers and stations, no
landacquisition andresettlement o f local people will be required. No additional land outside the
current boundaries o f the above mentioned centers and stations would be needed and, therefore,
resettlement o f the surrounding communities would not be triggered for renovation and
constructionworks underthe PRIP.



                                                  14

58.     Indigenous People Policy (OP/BP 4.10): Triggered. Under the proposedComponent 2,
Support for Farmer Seed Groups and On Farm Demonstrations, the Project would support the
formation of up to 200 small farmer groups in about 80 KumBahns (village clusters) inthe four
selected provinces. This component would cover some ethnic communities especially in the
upland areas where diverse ethnic groups with their own culture and languages are dwelling and
where the poverty incidence is found.      These ethnic farmers whose livelihood i s heavily based
on primitive agricultural practice and natural resources are considered to be vulnerable group o f
people in the rural Lao context. Therefore, the RPIP would need to pay special attention and
provide support that would facilitate their effective participation in the demonstration activities
using the Lao Extension Approach. A draft Ethnic Minority Participation Framework (EMPF)
has been prepared, with the objective o f providing direction in the process o f facilitating the
effective participation o f ethnic farmers in the whole cycle o f demonstration activities. A final
version o f this EMPF, acceptable to the Bank, will be finalized and adopted by GOL within one
month o fthe signature o f the grant agreement.

6.      Other factors affecting Design and Lessons Learned

59.     The proposed project design is largely based on similar earlier interventions undertaken
under the ACIAR supported Increasing Crop Yields project (2002-07) and the Pilot Extension
Project (1998). In both o f those interventions, improved seed and fertilizer inputs had a major
impact on productivity, with seed alone increasing yields by up to 20% and even small doses of
fertilizer increasing yields by 1.2tha. However, the proposed project also addresses the problem
o f poverty among farmers as this affects their ability to pay for such inputs in the mediumterm
after project completion. Lessons from private sector involvement in maize seed production in
Savannakhet show that both private sector marketers and farmer producers can develop
successful contract farming businesses based on cross border trade with Thailand. The same
could be true o f trade in non-glutinous rice as Thailand faces pressure to boost rice output to
meet expected demand until2015.3

60.     The institutions involved in seed research, production and multiplication have been
receiving assistance from SIDA through a longer term Technical Assistance program. However,
their focus has almost exclusively been on work related to farming systems for upland areas.
NAFRIhas only recently taken over responsibility for seed improvement but is handicapped by
shortage o f budget.Strengthening both the Seed Multiplication Stations andNAFRIshould assist
food security in both uplands and lowlands because o f the improvement in availability and
quality o f seed for uplands and lowlands alike.

61.     A strategy to move from emergency response to a capacity building or development
phase should be included inthe design o fthe intervention. The RPIP has beenpreparedwith due
consideration o f the on-going technical assistance projects and programs targeting capacity
building and institutional strengtheningin the seed industry in Lao PDR, particularly those of
Japan under the RISEP initiative which would complement rather than compete with RPIP. RPIP
i s designed so that incremental financing by bilateral partners such as AusAID and EU would




  LECS3,2005.
  World Bank2008 World Development Report:Agriculture


                                                 15

allow expansion to address food security through livelihood improvements in the resource poor
uplands.

62.     Based on both the short term urgency o f saving the seed multiplication system and the
medium term demands of a growing population, the design demands simplicity, and ease o f
implementation for timely delivery o f the equipment, services and civil works to NAFRI and
seed stations and the seed and fertilizer packages to a wide geographic area representing rice
producers in the country's key production provinces. The proposed project will significantly
alleviate food shortages and provide a demonstration o fhow a combination o f standard operating
procedures can be used to develop a workable and sustainable seed production and outreach
system with minimum public funding. For farmers it will demonstrate not only how to increase
output but how to make a successful business out o f rice production in addition to meeting food
security needs.

E.      IMPLEMENTATION       ARRANGEMENTS

1.      InstitutionalArrangementsfor ProjectImplementation

63.     Overall Project Coordination and Management. The Project falls under the overall
responsibility o f the Ministryo f Agriculture and Forestry (MAF). The National Agriculture and
Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI) would be in charge o f project coordination and
management on behalf o f MAF for the implementationperiod. For this purpose, NAFRIwould
rely on its existing structure under the leadership o f a Project Director. The main responsibilities
ofNAFRIwill be the following:

                Nominate and maintain a project staff team coordinated by the Project Director
                and consisting inter-alia of specialists inprocurement, financial management and
                relevant technical specialists.
                Prepare the Project Operational Manual from inputs from the respective
                implementingagencies, ensuring its adoption by Government and monitoring its
                implementation. The adoption o f this P O M will have to be completed within
                three months o fproject effectiveness;
                Compile the Annual Work Plans (AWPs) covering the agreed program o f
                activities, in coordination with other participating agencies, ensuring consistency
                with the national policies and overall strategy for the country, as well as with the
                available resources, both human and financial. The plans are to be approved by
                the Project Director and submittedto the Bank for discussion on an annualbasis;
                Prepare and update (when required)the respective Procurement Plans;
                Establish and maintain a Monitoringand Evaluation (M&E) System for the entire
                Project, making sure the system produces meaningful lessons to support strategic
               thinkingabout the expansion o fthe systemandrequiredpolicy decisions;
               Periodically assess the Project's progress status, identifying constraints and
                limitations, as well as suggesting ways to improve project performance and
               realigning the activities accordingly;
               Act as the main counterpart for the Bank and other donors for matters related to
               theproject and :




                                                 16

       (h)     Prepare and submit to the Bank: (i)the annual physical progress reports and
               financial statements, not later than 45 days after the end o f each fiscal year;
               (ii) Mid-termProgressReport(aroundmidwayintoprojectimplementation);
                    the
               (iii)the annual auditing reports and management letters by the private
               independent auditors hired under TORSacceptable to the Bank, within six months
               o f the end of each financial year; and (iv) the final Implementation Completion
               Report, not later than two months after the closing date o fthe Project.

64.    Responsibility for implementing Component 1 would lie primarily with the RRSMCs
under the guidance from NAFRI - the objective o f the project being to support their
development as autonomous units, which are able to sustain their activities through self
generated cash inflows (from the sale o f seed). Presently the center at Thasano in Savannakhet
falls under the provincial PAFO (only the salaries o f the nine regular staff o f the center are
presently being paid from the PAFO budget - for meeting the rest o f the costs, including new
equipment, the center generates cash from seed sales). Under different arrangements, the center
at Phonengam in Champassak falls under NAFRI. The scale o f operations here i s considerably
smaller, but this center too meets its seed production costs from revenue generated from sales.
Underthe project, the incremental seedproduction which the centers will producewill bebought
by the project for distributionto farmer groups under component 2. The Centers will beprovided
support from NAFRI; as well as technical assistance to upgrade its technical capacity, and the
managers will be supported to strengthen business skills. It will be necessary to add at least one
deputy manager for each station-to be trained underthe project.

65.    Responsibility for implementing Component 2 would be shared between NAFRIand the
Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Offices (PAFO), with actual implementation responsibility
lying at the Kum Bahn and village level Government. At the villages which are selected from
within the participating Kum Bahns, farmer groups would be established; and extension agents
would be designated to work with each farmer group. It i s proposed that the project would
contract with a local INGO initially to work with the NAFRIconsultants and PAFO/DAFO and
the extension agents at village level, in facilitating the process o f group formation. Village group
leaders and the local extension agents would receive training at the seed centers - and following
the completion o f this training, will be provided with the package of inputs for planting a
maximum o f 0.5 hectare per household per season. Technical assistance would be provided to
support the implementation o f the component, as well as to monitor the quality o f
implementation. Overall it i s proposed that the project start with 40 groups infirst season o f year
1(10 per province), gradually building up to a total o f 200 groups by the end o f year 2. With an
estimated 20 households per group, the first level impact o f the project would benefit as
estimated 4000 households.




                                                   17

F.     PROJECTRISKS AND MITIGATING         MEASURES

66.    The major risks inthe proposedemergency operation are summarized below:




Delays in procurement         due to Moderate        NAFRIhas established procurement teams
limited     experience     in    Bank                and will be supported by an international
procedures.                                          consultant Procurement Specialist with
                                                     experience inBank procedures andby Bank
                                                     Regional Specialists.    The hiring of this
                                                     specialist is expected to occur immediately
                                                     after effectiveness and it is a condition for
                                                     disbursement o f grant proceeds for the civil
                                                     works and goods category.
Delays due to unavailability o f Moderate            NAFRI will contract additional long term
technical support at village level and               (30 month) consultants to work with the
uncertainties regarding formation                    villagers. The number o f groups may need
and strengthening o f large numbers                  to be adjusted to match implementation
o f groups. The KumBahn extension                    capacity.
system i s largely incomplete and
even where established; workers are
not always available at village level.
Misuse or sale of inputs by poor Moderate            The inputs will be supplied only after the
farmers                                              Village Development Committees agree to
                                                     coordinate and guide the process, accepting
                                                     the possibility that the second season o f
                                                     support would be withdrawn if inputs were
                                                     misused as evidenced by poor            crop
                                                     performance       or     obviously      poor
                                                     management.
NAFRI works in a high fiduciary Substantial Consultant support and training in Bank
risk environment, but many years o f                 systems will enhance that         capability.
assistance by bilateral donors have                  Regular annual audit o f all project accounts
increased its capacity for handling                  will beundertaken inline with Bank policy.
foreign funds and the overall Project
riskis ratedas Substantial
OverallRisk                            Moderate


G.     TERMSFORPROJECTFINANCING

1.     DisbursementConditions.

67.    As a condition for disbursement o f grant proceeds from the Category 1: Civil Works and
Goods, the Recipient shall select and international procurement consultant, as well as a financial
management (FM) consultant, to strengthen NAFRI's implementation capacity and ensure


                                               18

compliance with Bank's policies and procedures. The FM consultant will provide on-the-job
training and supervision to the finance section o f NAFRI (central and provincial levels) and
assist inthe modification o f the existing Financial Management Manual to incorporate the Bank
financial management and disbursement arrangements applicable to this Project.

2.      ImplementationCovenants

GeneralConditions:

        (a)   Adopt and disclose the Project's Ethnic Minority Participation Framework
              (EMPF), acceptable to the Bank, within one month o f the signature o f the grant
              agreement;

        (b)   Prepare and adopt the Project's Operational Manual (covering all aspects o f the
              project), withinthree months o fthe signature o f the grant agreement;

        (c)   NAFRIwill engage independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to carry out the
              audit o f the project financial statements annually, under Terms of Reference
              satisfactory to the Bank, prior to the endofthe first fiscal year.

Procurement:

              A qualified procurement staff will be assigned by NAFRI to serve as the focal
              point for coordination, consultation and follow-up o f procurement activities with
              NAFRI,lineprovincial departments, districts andvillages, within three monthsof
              the signature o fthe grant agreement;

              For strengthening transparency and accountability in procurement process, an
              action plan for strengthening transparency for procurement in the project will be
              discussed, developed and adopted within three months o f the signature o f the
              grant agreement;

              NAFRI will organize a procurement training workshop for the project
              implementing staff with assistance from the Procurement Monitoring Office
              (PrMO) o f MOF within one month o f the signature o f the grant agreement, and
              periodically duringthe life of the project; and

              NAFRIwill adopt a project procurement record and filing system acceptable to
              the Bank, within three months o fthe signature of the grant agreement.

FinancialManagement:

        (a)   Recruit or appoint two more qualified financial staff to work assisting the project
              accountant in NAFRI, within three months o f the signature o f the grant
              agreement;




                                                19

(b)  Appoint two financial staff in each o f the Rice Research Centers and Seed
     Multiplication Stations at the selected provinces and provide training to them,
    within three months o fthe signature ofthe grant agreement;

(c)  Within three months of the signature o f the grant agreement, contract a FM
     consulting findindividual to: (i)set up the accounting system for the RPIP
     Project, using the ACCPAC accounting software, and configure the Interim
     Financial Reports (IFRs) inthe system; and (ii) training to NAFRI's staff
                                                    provide
     on the use o f ACCPAC.




                                    20

                     Annex 1:CountryBackgroundandProjectDescription
                       Lao PDR: Rice ProductivityImprovementProject


Introduction

1.      Agriculture in Lao PDR covers a wide range o f activities from subsistence to market
related production. Rice i s dominant for cultural reasons. Cereals and starchy root products are
produced in almost all provinces. Potatoes and other tubers are produced on the Boloven plateau
inthe south. The production offood commodities (vegetables, small animals, fish and livestock,
and other food manufacturing) i s increasingto supply the growing urban agglomerations.


2.      Rice i s the single most important crop. More than 85% o f the rice produced is o f
glutinous rice for local consumption. Lao PDR has attained rice self sufficiency at the national
level since 2000 with a statistical ratio rice productiodpopulation close to 450 kg persodyear.
However, although it i s increasing, rice production growth (1.8% per annum) is not keepingpace
with population growth (2.5% per annum- one o fthe highest inSE.Asia).


3.      Approximately 84% o f the lowland rainfed rice area and more than 80% o f all rice
production i s located in the central and southern agricultural regions, mainly in the provinces
adjacent to the Mekong River (Vientiane, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Champassak and
Saravane). The project area includes all o fthese provinces.

GovernmentPolicyandStrategy on Agriculture

4.      The Government o fLao PDRhas formulated 13 measures to achieve its agricultural
goals. Those most closely linked to the food security response o fRPP are:

        Measure 3, Seed and breed availability. Improving seed varieties, with emphasis on rice
        and coffee varieties; improving the quality o f animal stocks through hybrid breeding;
        improving grass seed for forage; and enhancing investment, training, and marketing;
       Measure 5, Establish village development groups linked to sector development. This
        measure includes implementing the Politburo Order on the establishment o f village
        cluster development groups (Kum Bahn putthanu) with the objective o f moving
        development toward the grassroots level;
       Measure 6, Organizeproduction and establishing economic structuresfrom local/
       grassroots levels. The measure includes strengthening production groups inpilot areas to
        enable formation o fproduction cooperatives; developing cooperative services, marketing
        systems, processing services, communications, and savings and credit opportunities; and
        formulating relevant procedures;
       Measure 8, Increase productivity. Support for more intensive use of agricultural
       technology to increase agricultural and forestry productivity through the application o f
        fertilizer, compost, improved seeds, and advanced technology.


                                                 21

5.       The policy for extension, technical service delivery and humanresource development i s
also supportedbythe project viz:

     0   Improve the management inexisting seed multiplication centers to bemore economic and
         self finance oriented. Increase their capacity in extension and sewice delivery tofarmers;
         Utilize communal production groups and contract farming based production groups
         generated from enterprises to produce rice seed and distribute rice seed according to the
         demand progressively.

Rice seed and Rice Productivity

6.       The World Food Program (WFP) reports4 that the current net production of rice in Lao
PDR i s just sufficient to meet per capita consumption requirements. The Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry (MAF) points out that rice constitutes 70% o f the net cropped area, with most rice
production beingrainfed. Lowlandrice accounts for about 77 percent, upland 14percent, and the
remaining 9 percent i s irrigated. Upland rice productivity i s estimated at about 2.04 metric ton
(mt) per ha against 3.65 mt for the lowlands. Net rice production increased from 1.32 millionmt
in 2001 to 1.66 million mt in 2006. As a result, the country has moved from a rice deficit
situation in 1996 to a slight surplus production in 2006. However, the surplus i s unevenly
distributedwith large deficits innorthernprovincesbalancedby surpluses inthe center and south
o f the country which can be accessedby those with adequateincome for rice purchase


7.       However, WFP recently found that nine out o f ten rice producing households reported
using their own seed stock, a practice which inevitably leads to yield decline. Incombination
with the loss o f about 35,000 ha o f effective irrigated area (as a result o f high operation and
maintenance costs) since 2001 and about 75% o f uplandrainfed area since 1990 (as a result o f
Government policy on sustainable agriculture), rice production i s seriously threatened. Other
countries inthe region (namely China, Thailand, and Vietnam) have demonstrated that the use o f
improved seed by rice farmers contributes to increasing crop productivity by an estimated 20-30
percent, thereby increasingproductivity per unit o f land. Any surplus can contribute to increased
on-farm income and provides additional employment opportunities for poor farmers.


8.       A keyinitial limitation is thus poor seedquality, eveninimprovedvarieties since farmers
simply retain seed from the previous harvest and a gradual selection toward survival rather than
productivity occurs Moreover they select for phenotype from good areas in the field rather than
for genotype. The nation has no seed testing laboratory facilities to check quality.


9.       Similarly lack o f knowledge of the nation's soils and their fertility constraints limits
effective use of fertilizer. About 50% of all farmers surveyed by ACIAR in 20015 used some

 WorldFoodProgram,VulnerabilityAnalysis andMappingBranch(ODAV), Lao PDR: ComprehensiveFood
Security and Vulnerability Analysis (CFSVA), December, 2007.
5ACIAR (200) BaselineSurveyReportImprovingCropYields Project(conductedby World Vision)




                                                    22

form o f fertilizer, mainly basal (NP 16:20:0). IRRI data6 shows that addition o f potassium in
combination with nitrogen and phosphorus can lift yields above 4tha inrainfed areas and above
Wha in irrigated areas. Even the National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute has no
capacity for soil analysis o f major nutrients, let alone micronutrients, o f which boron i s
becoming an increasingly severe limitation as indicated by plant symptoms and externally
conducted soil testing by projects such as Nam Theun 2 Hydropower Project and Nam Theun
Social and Environment Project o f World Bank.


10.     NAFRI has been designated by MAF as the lead agency for seed research and
development and been given overall responsibility for organizing seed supply. Since the
commercial seed trade i s in a very early stage o f development, the Lao Government i s taking the
lead in multiplying and distributing improved / hybrid rice seeds to farmers in an effort to
increase land productivity. In the context o f current levels o f rice production, it may also be
possible to generate a surplus of glutinous (sweet), aromatic, and organic rice for export to China
(which currently i s important rice from Pakistan and Japan) and to other global markets.
NAFRI's role i s one o f oversight o f the seed system and technical responsibility for the early
stages of the seed chain. The early stages o f the seed chain comprising breeder seed to R1; and,
R1 to R2, are a direct responsibility o f NAFRI.Work is conducted at its research centers and
associated seed multiplication centers at Thasano (Savannakhet)                         and Phone Ngam
(Champassack).     '

The Private Sector

11.      State owned provincial import-export enterprises generally control rice trading. In
addition, there exist private companies that trade rice, most o f which are import-export
companies or private rice mill enterprises. Two private agribusiness enterprises contacted
recently in Savannakhet Province reported that no private companies imported or traded rice
seed in the province. One firm reported that selling rice seed was not profitable since most
farmers either used indigenous varieties o f seed saved from year to year or individually imported
improvedrice varieties from Thailand. Since farmers inthe Mekong corridor have easy access to
Thai language media (radio and television broadcasts and newspapers and magazines), they are
often aware o f the availability o f improved rice varieties through government organizations and
private firms in Thailand. They are able to arrange for relatives and friends to obtain small
quantities of Thai rice seed that they multiply for use inLao PDR. Foreign investors and traders
reported not being able to obtain credit from Lao Banks to conduct agricultural trade, including
the import and sale of seeds. This i s due to the lack o f acceptable collateral (ie., land ownership
certificates).




6Linquist,B.R.andPheng, Sengxua (2001) Nutrient Management inRainfedLowlandRice inthe Lao PDR.IRRI,
NAFRI2001.
'Turner, Michael, Proposalsfor thefuture development of seed supply systems within the remit of NAFRI and its
northern regional research center NAFReC, URDP special report no. 5, UplandResearch and Capacity
Development Program(URqP), August 2008.


                                                     23

12.     Government sponsored price setting i s not a substitute for a long term solution in the
form o f free trade with neighboring countries in rice varieties that are in demand at attractive
prices. However, very little cross border trade occurs. There is some minor export o f specialty
rice to Europe (130 tons) and to Japan since 2003. Production o f rice (CR 203) for the beer
factory i s increasing. Despite attractive prices in Thailand (about $375-400/ton farmgate) for
non-glutinous rice, most farmers in Lao PDR focus on achieving self sufficiency in glutinous
rice ( about two tons for a family o f five)and only then selling surplus production at low prices
($220-250/ton inearly 2008).


13.     The Lao market is dominated by trading in glutinous rice, the staple food. Most
households eat rice, or rice coupled with other staples such as maize or cassava, every day.
Glutinous rice i s the preferred staple by the Lao-Tai and the Austro-Asiatic groups, whereas the
Sino-Tibetan and the Hmong-Mien groups prefer non-glutinous rice. In this context, rice
production in the four project provinces i s focused on glutinous rice. If however, Lao farmers
were to be able to market surplus production as organic or inorganic aromatic rice for niche
markets in Thailand, elsewhere in the region, or for export to global markets, significant
additional income could be generated.


Rice Seed Production

14.     Responsibility for rice seed production has recently (2005) been transferred from NAFES
to NAFRI, in coordination with Provincial centers. The existing system o f seed multiplication is
very loosely controlled and poorly coordinated. The main provincial (Thasano and sub station
KM35 in Savannakhet, Namtan in Luang Namtha) and national (Phone Ngam in Champassak
plus a sub station in Saravane) seed multiplication stations and even the Central Agricultural
Research Station at Naphok, Vientiane are forced to sell their breeder or foundation (RI) and
Registered (R2). Excess production has even been sold as paddy inthe past. Sales are made to a
variety o f individual farmers, projects, lower level provincial stations, food companies, trading
companies and contract farmers in order to fund their operations in the face o f very erratic and
inadequate public funding. As a result:

      There i s little or no regulated certification o f seed and;

      The Seed Multiplication Stations and research centers have critically poor infrastructure
      owing to a lack o f maintenance of facilities first constructed by the European Union in
      1981. Most production and processing machinery i s either inoperative or on the verge o f
      collapse.

15.    R3 seeds produced by the seed multiplication stations under contract farming and donor
projects through contract farmers and are sold to farmers' ex-factory, at project office gates, at
Provincial Food Stuff Companies and at contract fanner farm gates. However, the majority o f
R3 seeds are self produced and are distributed to farmers by farmer to farmer seed exchange.
Some seed i s imported from Thailand and the RD varieties from the north east of Thailand are




                                                   24

quitepopular inkeylowland districts.8Alllocal varieties are distributedthrough farmer to farmer
exchange.

16.    The role o f DAFO is very limited inthe distribution o f rice seed because of the lack o f
budget to multiply R3 seed through contract farming. Therefore, rice seed multiplication and
distribution has been centered on irrigated areas and projects with external support.


    Figure 1:Outlineof ModelRice SeedMultiplicationSystemwith Adequate Funding'


                                                 NAFRllARC is responsible for the
                                                 production and multiplication of
                                                 Foundation seed R1 (>40 tonslyear)

                                                 SMCs are responsible for the
                                                 multiplication of Registered seed R2 from
                                                 the R1 (> 600 tonslyear)


                                                 Farmers' Groups multiply Certified seed
                                                 R3 from R2 (between 55,000 to 60,000
                                                 tonslyear)




                                                          "   -




 17.   A start to reorganizing the system has been made through the JICA supported RISEP
project (2006-201l), i s active in Vientiane Province and Prefecture, and Luang Namtha
                        which
province inthe north. It i s attached to NAFES owing to its main role inR3 multiplication. RISEP
provides seed multiplication training and technical assistance, limited mobility and equipment
support and marketing support for farmer groups dedicated to R3 production. It does not aim to
provide large volumes o f seed but rather to demonstrate a more disciplined model o f seed
production with adequate monitoring.

18.    Because o fthe limited scope of the project, impact has been limited and potential exists
to fund inputs to support NAFRIandRISEP technical assistance such as critical civil works
rehabilitation and equipment, which would secure the quality and reliability o f existing
production. Inaddition, however, infrastructure and equipment at the main multiplication
stations o f the key rice producing provinces of the south must be rehabilitated or replaced before
complete collapse of the system occurs.




'ACIAR (2001)BaselineSurveyReportImprovingCropYields Project (conductedbyWorldVision).
9JICA (2007)BaselineSurveyfor Rice SeedMultiplicationSystemImprovementProjectinLaos PDRMixai
TechnoEngineeringandConsultingCo.Ltd ( For JapanInternationalCooperationAgency).



                                                  25

The Project

19.    The approach o f RPIP i s consistent with world wide experience in projects involving
seedbased assistance."

    0  Relief activities involving seed should at a minimum do no harm to existing seed
       production and farming systems; ideally they contain element of seed system
        sustainability. The proposed project aims at improving the capacity o f the country to
       produce and distribute seed to address longer term inadequacy productivity improvement
        as a result o fpoor seed quality andrundown soil fertility;
    0   Seed relief activities should be built upon the understanding o f the seed systems farmers
       use and the role they have in their livelihood. The farmers in Lao PDR usually re-use a
       part of the crop which is set aside for the next year's planting seasons. However,
       inadequate measures to ensure the multiplication o f quality seed and its delivery to
        farmers have resulted in inadequate rates o f seed replacement, dilution o f valuable
        foundation seed with unselected rough rice in farm level seeding practice and a gradual
       loss o fproductivity inmany areas despite heavy investmentinresearch;
    0   Seed relief interventions should facilitate farmers' choices of crops and varieties. Past
       demonstrations, notably by ACIAR (1999-2002) in Savannakhet Province have shown
       that participatory methods o f variety selection and seed multiplication on small areas
       result inimproved productivity and sustainability, because farmers have greater incentive
       and improved ability to rogue seed increase plots for off types in smaller plots compared
       to conventional outgrowers based on large areas around seed increase centers.
       Decentralization should improve, or at least maintain seed quality, and access to crop
       variety ifa package o f short, mediumand long seasonvarieties is supplied along with the
       rightfertilizer mix and appliedto halfo ffarm area to facilitate direct comparison;
       Monitoring and evaluation of quality and outcomes should be built into all seed relief
       interventions. The intervention should thus be accompanied by an information system to
       improve institutional learning. The Monitoring and Evaluation component proposed
       below addresses that concern.

20.    The RPP development objective is to increase rice productivity and overall volume of
rice production among smallholder farmers in four southern provinces, leading to increased
incomes and improved food security. This would be achieved through improved capacity of the
public sector to produce high quality rice seed; and, establishment o f a system of seed
multiplication by smallholder farmer groups. The project would be implementedover a period of
three years. The total cost o f the project i s estimated at US$3.28 million and would consist o f
three components, namely:


           Component A: Support to rice seed multiplication stations;
           Component B: Support for smallholder farmer seed producing groups and on-farm
           demonstrations;
           Component C: Project management andmonitoring and evaluation



loTowards Effective and Sustainable Seed Relief Activities (FAOplantproduction andprotection paper #181)


                                                       26

21.     Component1 Support to Rice Researchand Seed MultiplicationCenters (base cost
$1.32 million). This component would address the rundown in critical equipment and
infrastructure in Government Seed Multiplication stations to provide for secure separation o f
varieties and production of clean, dry, weed free, high quality R1 and R2 seed for later
multiplication as R3 seed for general use by farmer groups under component 2. The assistance i s
urgentlyrequired. Although IRRIsupport inthe 1990s has provided the skills for breedinghigh
yielding modern varieties and selecting the best traditional lines, most stations cannot guarantee
adequate germination rates because o f inadequate drying capacity and cold storage for R 1 seed.
They cannot guarantee separation of varieties because o f the lack o f cleaning equipment and
poorly designed grading and drying systems. Agricultural machinery i s unreliable and
inadequate. The key assumption i s that the whole system o f seed production centers must be
addressed because inadequate quality at one center affects the others through R1 and R2 seed
shared between centers. The component also seeks to develop financial sustainability of the
system by increasingdemand and output.


22.     The Project would provide equipment for production, drying, grading, packaging, cool
storage, as well as small training facilities and transportation at selected government research
centers and seed multiplication stations located in Savannakhet Province (Thasano station and
KM35 sub-station), Champassak Province (Phonengam and outgrower areas), Saravane Province
(Saravane Sub-station), Khammouane Province (Provincial Agricultural Training Center Sub-
Station) and Vientiane (Naphok Central Seed Station). Inaddition, the project would provide
support to establish a small seed laboratory at Naphok Central Station which is considered
essential for ensuring quality standards. The additional support to be provided to the Naphok
Center would be complementary to the ongoing RISEP project fbnded by JICA. Equipment to
support soil testing would be supplied to the NAFRIsoils laboratory. Foreign and local technical
assistance would be required for this component. Inaddition, these research centers and seed
multiplication stations would provide technical support to Component 2 by supporting the Kum
Bahn level o f government in the process of selection and training of the farmer seed
multiplication groups to be created under the second component. It i s proposed that the Thasano
Research Center in Savannakhet would support R2 seed to be multiplied by farmers groups in
Savannakhet and Khammouane, while the Phonengam would provide seed to groups in
Champasak and Saravane Provinces.


23.     Component2 Support to Farmer Seed Groups and On-FarmDemonstrations(base
cost $1.09million). This component would establish and support up to 200 farmer groups o f
about 20 farmers each in about 70 Kum Bahns in each o f four provinces (Khammouane,
Savannakhet, Champassak and Saravane). The project would operate at farm level for six
seasons. Peak group numbers would be achieved by the dry season o f 2010, one year after
effectiveness, with a scaling down at the end of the fifth season. The component would operate
through Kum Bahn (village cluster) and Village Development Committees. Technical support
and monitoring would be provided by staff based at the Seed Multiplication stations but
operating mainly with farmers at village level to provide inputs for demonstrations comparing
existing and improvedpractice. The work would also be supported by PAFO, DAFO and Kum
Bahn staff (strengthened by the project) where those organizations have representation at the


                                               27

Kum Bahn or village level (as determined by field surveys). This technical assistance
methodology i s in line with the Lao Extension Approach develop under SDA assistance and
endorsed as policy byNAFES in2005.


24.     Inputsfor demonstrations would be provided to farmers to allow up scaling of improved
seed and seed multiplication systems developed at the research centers and seed stations, and
improved NPK and micronutrient based fertilizer regimes resulting from research by IRRIinthe
1990s. These inputs would need to be distributed initially to about 40 groups by M a y 2009, in
time for the rainfed plantingseason. The baseline survey and methodology for group formation
would be developed under a contract to a locally based INGO to be implemented during
February-May 2009 Based on previous work, it i s estimated that seed and fertilizer packages
(which could include 30 Kg. o f seed o f glutinous and non glutinous varieties, 150 Kg. o f NPK
fertilizer, 75 kg o f Urea and 2 Kg o f Borax for planting 0.5 ha or 50% o f farm area on smaller
farms) would be sufficient to demonstrate the benefits o f improved inputs, by raising
productivity levels from 1.8 tons per ha (on infertile sandy soils) to at least 3.0 tons per ha across
rain fed and irrigated lowland areas. Using improved seed alone would raise productivity by
about 20%. Inupland areas a slightly different package would supplymore sulfur, particularly in
slash and bumareas.

25.     Eligibilityfor the assistancewould be governed by criteria to be agreed among the Bank,
the GoL and Provincial Governments. Criteria would include adequacy o f irrigation systems or
rainfed land area, management ability and interest, poverty status (mainly in upland areas) and
long term interest inseed production as a business.


26.     The participating farmer groups would receive ongoing monitoring andtraining inthe use
o f the packages. However, ultimate responsibility for successwould depend on the self discipline
o f the village and the f m e r group under a Village Responsibility system. The disincentive for
actions such as selling off the seed and fertilizer for cash would be that the farmer group and if
necessary, the village would be excluded from support inthe second season.


27.      This component has three main expected outcomes: (i)      increase in rice productivity and
overall levels o fproduction for household adopting the improvedpackages; (ii)       jump-starting the
process of creatingreal demand for highquality seed andmodem high yielding inputs; and (iii)         a
large proportion o fthese farmers groups are expected to emerge as certified (R3) seed producers
after two seasons o f support.


28.     Component 3 Management Monitoring and Evaluation (base cost $0.59 million).
This component would support overall project management and coordination, as well as the
implementation o f a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, all under NAFRI. The expected
M&E activities would include a baseline survey, monitoring surveys and the final evaluation
report. Capacity building will include training o f agricultural college student enumerators in
preparation for a future role intechnical support.




                                                 28

29.    Funds would flow to the project from the World Bank Grant through a project Special
Account established on behalf o f the project inthe Ministryof Finance. Routine implementation
would be the responsibility o f a small project management team at NAFRI consisting o f a
Project Director and Deputy Director, Procurement and Financial Management Specialists and
short term Consultants and clerical staff. The project would use a country systems approach
given the experience o f NAFRI in projects o f this nature and the availability o f supporting
consultants in Lao PDR and /or Thailand with experience in Bank procedures. The basis o f
disbursements to Seed Station accounts in the provinces on a quarterly basis would be annual
planspreparedbyNAFRIandthe resultingregularwithdrawal applications to MoF.


30.    The monitoring and Evaluation System (Annex 6) would be implemented by the INGO
contract, contractual staff based at the Seed Multiplication Stations, student enumerators and
monitors, and a consultant M& E specialist for data analysis and final evaluation. Each
participating village would be visited twice per month inthe growing season and mobile phones
suppliedto farmer group leaders would be usedto address day to day problems.




                                               29

              Annex 2: ResultsFrameworkandProjectMonitoringandEvaluation
                      Lao PDR:Rice ProductivityImprovementProject

                                        Outcome                       Use of Outcome
                                        Indicators                   Information
To increase rice productivity   0       Increase    in yield   0  Assess impact o f quality
and volume o frice production (25%) o f surplus rice (over     seed andbetter fertilizer
among smallholders in         consumptionneeds)                management on household
selected provinces, thereby                                    income and food security
increasing incomes and          0        Increase in value of

improvingfood security for    surplus        rice   produced

small farm households.          (10%)     by     participating
                               farmer groups compared to
                              baseline

                                0       Decrease in number
                              o f months o f rice shortage
                              in participating households
                              compared to baseline



 Result1. Improvements in       1  Production       o f     an 0  Assess capacity o f seed
 the capacity o f the public    incremental annual volume centers as a system to provide an
 sector (research centers and   o f   quality    seed     (R1 increased volume ofhighquality
 seedmultiplication stations)   foundation       and       R2 foundation andregistered seed.
 to sustainably produce larger  registered seed) o f at least  0  Measure development o f a
 quantities o fhighquality      140 tons from all o f its decentralized and interacting
 seed (breeder, foundation      participating centers.        system o f seed production for
 and registered seed)                                         uplandandlowlandfarmers
 according to demand o fthe     1  Bothupland and lowland
                                                               0  Assess capacity o f seed
 most appropriate varieties     glutinous and non glutinous
                                                              centers to sustainably increase
 for the different Lao          varieties   available    from
                                                              demand among farmers through
 conditions;                    seed centers and at least
                                three varieties o f seed from training

                                another center available at    0  Assess capacity of
                                any one center                management at seed centers to
                                                              assess demand andmatch supply
                                0  Farmer leaders able to     accordingly
                                coordinate own groups as a
                               result o f on station (at least
                              2 training days per annum)
                                and in-field training (2 days
                              per month per village)
                              provided.

                                0       At least 75% o f all
                              seed produced i s sold or
                              transferred under the project



                                                 30

                               to seed producers rather
                               than beingsold as paddy

                      Results

Result2. Establishment of a    0  Number o f farmer           0    Assess viability o f increased
system o f seed multiplication   groups adopting and          inputsas ameans o fincreasing
by small farmers' groups         maintaininguse o f all or    productivity
based on the use o f modern      partofproject input           0   Assess acceptance o f
highyield technicalpackages,     packages i s at least 25%    improved seed as an input by
that would demonstrate the       o f all groups formed        nonproject farmers
benefits o f this improved     0  Proportion o frice               Assess viability o f
technology andwould start        production soldtraded as     smallholder specialized
the process o f creating a       seed rather than usedfor     extension seedproduction as an
sustained demand for high        consumption reaches 30%      enterprise
quality seed and other inputs  0   Incomes o f participating   0   Assess impact on food
for higher yields and output     fanners ingroups increase security
prices                           by at least 20%               0   Assess patterns o f soil
                                0  Number o f months o f      fertility inproject provinces
                                 rice food insecurity in      from associated soil testing
                                 participatinghouseholds
                                 declines by an average

                                                                       Use of Results
                                                                       Monitoring
                                0  Project       management    0      Assess capacity o f
gystem o fmanagement            team established in NAFRI NAFRIto successfully manage
monitoring and evaluation       using own      systems and the supplyo f improved seed and
withinNAFRIfor longer term operating           with      staff the process o fbuildingdemand
development o f a sustainable   experienced in World Bank for it
seedproduction and              procurement and safeguards     0      Monitor INGO and
distribution system             methodologies                  consultant performance
                                0  Baseline survey, group      0      Provide information for
                                formation methodology and farmers and GOL on hture
                                monitoring      surveys    in directions
                                proposed       demonstration
                                areas completed on time
                                1  Improvement in output
                                and productivity in target
                                areas quantified in terms of
                                both quality and quantity
                                through      timely      data
                                analysis.



!




                                                  31

1




                                Annex 3: ProjectCosts
                     Lao PDR: Rice ProductivityImprovementProject




                                                                       Total




                                                                       184,750
                           232,000                                    232,000
 Farm                      409,000                                    409,000
 Equipment
 Workshop                     8,000                                      8,000
 Equipment
 Processing                229,000                                    229,000
 Machinery
                                                   7-
 Laboratory                  81,100                                     81,350
 Equipment
 Incremental
 Operating                                            140,000          140,000
 Costs - seed

                                                                        36,000
                                                      140,000        1,320,100
 2. Farmer
 Group                                             =i=
 support
 Agricultural      1                     36,000
                           959.100       36.000




                           826,000                                    826,250

                             36.000                                    36,000
                                        124,500                        124,500
 Coordinators      1
 Vehicles (bus               35.000                                    35.000
 Field      costs
                                                       65,600          65,600
 diems, soil tests
 Subtotal                  897.000      124.500                      1.087.350

 Management                                                    I




 Evaluation


                                         32

ITotal Cost       I 184,750 I1,933,250  I 556,500 I 289,500  I36,000  I 3,000,000  I




IConsultancy        I317500          I117000       I122000      1556500           I
 Services
 Training and Study 22167
                   I                 I6917         16916        136000
 Tours
 Sub Total          11922467         1465117       I612417      I 3000000

 Total Cost        I 1922467         I465117       I612417      I3000000




                                           33

                 Annex 4: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                       Lao PDR: Rice ProductivityImprovementProject

Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

1.      A financial management capacity assessment of the National Agriculture and Forestry
Research Institution (NAFRI) was undertaken in September 2008 to determine whether the
respective institution has adequate financial management systems and related capacity in place
that satisfies the Bank's Operation Policy/Bank Procedure 10.02 with respect to financial
management. Under the policy, borrowers (recipients) and project implementation entities are
supposed to have and maintain adequate financial management systems including budgeting,
accounting, internal controls, funds flow, financial reporting and auditing arrangements to ensure
that they can readily provide accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures. These arrangements are deemed acceptable provided they: (a) are capable of
correctly and completely recording all financial transactions and balances relating to the project
resources; (b) can facilitate the preparation o f regular, timely and reliable financial statements;
(c) can safeguard the project's assets; and (d) are subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to
the Bank. This assessment was conducted through discussions with the staff o f the NAFRI's
Finance Section under the Department o f Administration, review o f the documentations and the
financial management manual.

2.      The FM assessment indicates that the Project will be implementedin an inherently high
risk environment. Appropriate mitigation measures have been incorporatedinto the design o f the
financial management arrangements that will reduce the residual risks o f the Project to
"substantial", including: (i)recruiting o f two additional qualified financial staff to handle the FM
tasks o f the proposed project; (b) a FM consulting contract (firm or individual) will be procured
to set up a computerized accounting system using ACCPAC and configure the quarterly Interim
Financial Reports (IFRs) to be automatically produced from the system, and to modify the
existing FM Manual to incorporate the Bank financial management arrangements; (c) a FM
individual consultant to be recruited to provide on-the-job training and day to day supervision;
and (d) engage an independent auditor six months after project effectiveness to audit the project
financial statements. In conclusion, the proposed financial management arrangements put in
place by the Project meet the Bank's minimumrequirements for project financial management as
per OPBP 10.02.

Country Issues

3.      Since 2003, the Government o f Lao PDR has been implementing a robust Public
Financial Management Reforms financed by a number o f donors. Governments' major document
for guiding such reforms i s the Public Financial Management Strengthening Program (PFMSP).
IDA, through the Financial Management Capacity Building Project has been financing such
reforms which encompass three components. Component 1 covers financial sector reform which
focuses on improving data management, on and off site examination o f Banking and other
financial institutions. It also covers improvement o f credit information bureau o f Bank o f Lao
PDR. The second component covers core PFM reforms such as: (a) stabilization o f GFIS; (b)
strengthening o f debt management; (c) support to procurement monitoring office; (d) curriculum



                                                 34

strengthening at government three PFM regional schools and upgrading training institutions.
The third component covers SOE reform and business development which focuses on: (a)
development o f business strategy; (b) SOE restructuring; (c) monitoring and evaluation.
Through Additional Financing, the following components have been included in the program:
(a) development o f a new inter-governmental fiscal framework; (b) implementation o f revised
chart o f accounts; (c) provision o f support towards treasury centralization; and (d) strengthening
o f external audit capacity.     Such PFM reforms are anchored in the Public Expenditure
Management Strengthening Program (PEMSP). This i s a master document which guides key
PFMreforms in Lao PDR. It was adopted by the Government o f Lao PDR inNovember 2005,
bythe approval o fthe Minister o fFinance andthe PrimeMinister's Office.

4.      The PEMSP is a multi-yearmedium-to-long term program, which aims to improve policy
consistency, efficiency, transparency and accountability in public expenditure management by
strengthening institutional systems and capacity and making progress towards appropriate
international financial management standards.        It provides a framework for implementing
Government policies and strategies laid out in the "Policy Paper on Governance", the National
Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy, and the National Socio Economic Guidelines 2006-
2010. The document is a response to some o f the key PFM weaknesses outlined inthe Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) o f 2002 that concluded that the overall fiduciary
risk in Lao PDR was considered to be high, despite the fact that there are elaborate built-in
controls within the government FMsystem.

5.      The conclusions in the CFAA were anchored in insufficient transparency in public
finances.   The budget process was assessed as being not transparent and public access to
government financial information as being limited. These weaknesses have been compounded
by insufficient awareness o f modern practices o f internal control inthe public sector and by the
government's ongoing decentralization initiative, which needs to be strengthened. The oversight
functions and the State Audit Organization (SAO) need enhanced capacity and improvement.
Capacity at provincial and district level i s weak.          A recently completed Institutional
Development Fund (IDF) Grant to improve accountability in state owned enterprises and the
private sector has helped develop the environment for the accounting and auditing professions
and initiated amendments to accounting and auditing laws. An Integrated Fiduciary Assessment
-PublicExpenditureReview (IFAPER)hasbeencompletedanddisseminated, andits findings
will supportthe weak accountingenvironment annotated above.

6.      While the implementation of the actions above have started to improve specific fiduciary
issues, the country FM environment for externally-funded projects still remains weak as the
effects o f some of the measures being implemented are yet to impact the respective ministries
and departments.

7.     Owingto the weaknesses outlined above, the project intends to deal with them by having
a proposed financial management systemwhit the following features:

              The accounting for overall project implementation shall be done through NAFRI's
              Finance Section under the Department of Administration. A senior accountant has
              been appointed to be the Project Accountant and has overall responsibility of the




                                                 35

              Project FM arrangements.        Two additional financial staff will be appointed or
              contracted to assist the FMaspects o fthe Project;
      e       The participating provinces will endeavor to have adequate numbers o f qualified
              staff inplace through the life o fthe Project (at least two per participatingprovince);
      e       A FM consulting contract (firm or individual) will be procured to set up a
              computerized accounting system using the ACCPAC accounting software (which i s
              currently utilized by SIDA-fundedproject), provide training to the relevant staff in
              the use o f ACCPAC, and configure the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) in the
              system;
      e       A short term FM individual consultant will be recruited to provide on-the-job
              training and day to day supervision to the finance section ofNAFFUduring, at least,
              the first six months o f the Project implementation and modify the existing FM
              Manual (developed by SIDA-funded consultants in year 2007) to incorporate the
              Bank financial management and disbursement arrangements applicable to this
              Project;
      e       Intensive training concerning the Bank financial management and disbursement
              policies andprocedures will be provided by the Bank staff;
      e       A training program concerning the use o f ACCPAC, accounting and English
              language will be also provided during the project period to financial management
              staff;
       e      Independent external auditors, under Terms o f Reference acceptable to the Bank,
              will be recruited to conduct annual audits o f the Project financial statements in
              accordance with international standards and issue a management letter providing an
              assessment of the financial management system and the adequacy o f internal
              controls (to be submitted to the Bank within six months o f the end o f each fiscal
              year).

RiskAnalysis

8.      The detailed risk to project funds and related mitigating aspects are as analyzed and
articulated inthe following table:




Country level -weak         High       To address the highlevel o f country risk, a        Substantial
control environment.                   government ledPFM ReformProgram i s under
                                       implementation, and i s being support by a number
                                       o f donors including a Bank - financed project
                                       FMCBP.

                                       There shall be enhanced accounting and reporting    Moderate
efficiently and                        system.   Independent external auditors shall be
economically for                       engaged to conduct annual audits. A detail and
purposes intended.                     comprehensive annual work plan and budget will
                                       be developed and shall be strictly followed to help


                                                   36

Inability to properly  Substantial The project shall maintainan advance register,      Moderate
account for advances,              which shall be reviewed by external auditors.
fuel and allowances.               Monthly returns shall be required to be submitted
                                   at the center before the next advance. Logbooks
                                   and fuel registers shall also be maintainedby the
                                   Project. The respective books shall be reviewed
                                   each mission.

Overallinherentrisk                                                                    Substantial

Controlrisk

Budgeting              Substantial Annual budget plans to be prepared in sufficient    Moderate
                                   detail will be used as a management tool and
                                   revised bi-annually.      Financial budgets will be
                                   linked to physical outputs through the operating
                                   and procurement plans. The IFRs to be prepared
                                   will be used to monitor variance analysis with
                                   budget.

Inability for the        High      The funds from the Grant will flow directly to the  Substantial
province to manage                 Designated Account (DA) maintainedat the Bank
the Project Bank                   o f Laos and subsequently advances made to five
Accounts, which will               Project Bank Accounts to be opened by NAFRI
slow down the project              (Vientiane)    and one in each o f the four
activities.                        participating provinces by the Research Centers
                                   (Savannakhet and Champasak) and by the Seed
                                   Multiplication     Stations     (Khammouane     and
                                   Saravane) in a commercial bank. The provincial
                                   financial staff will be trained byNAFRI's Finance
                                   Section and supervised closely by the FM
                                   consultant to be recruited, on tracking fund used
                                   and replenishment to the Project Bank Accounts
                                   on a monthly basis.

Staffing - weak          High      Provincial financial staff will be trained in Substantial
capacity                           handling World Bank finds by maintaining
                                   simple Bank Control Book and the Monthly
                                   Summary Transaction Report to be submitted to
                                  NAFRIat the end o f the month for entering data
                                   into the ACCPAC accounting system. Provincial
                                   training o f the staff will also be organized

Reportingand           Moderate   NAFRIwill beresponsible for preparingquarterly         L o w
Monitoring                         IFRs in line with an agreed format and submit to
                                   the Bank within 45 days after the end o f each
                                   quarter.



                                                 37

                                                                                       Riskafter
                                                                                       Mitigation

 External Audit            Moderate    Independent auditors will be engaged to conduct
                                       the audit of the project financial statements
                                       annually accordance with the TOR satisfactory to
                                       IDA.

 Overall control risk
IOverall Project RiskRating                                                             SubstantialI

 Financial Management Arrangements

 Organization and Staffing

 9.     NAFRI's Finance Section under the Department o f Administration will be in charge o f
 overall financial management o f the Project, including planningand budgeting, preparingannual
 financial statements, quarterly InterimFinancial Reports (IFRs), and ensuring the smooth flow of
 finds to the respective project activities. The Section currently has five financial staff with
 accounting background and extensive working experiences, headed by a Deputy Director o f the
 Department. The Section i s currently in charge o f overall financial management of several
 donor-funded projects (more than 15 projects) including one big SIDA-fundedproject ($12 M.)
 implemented during year 2007-2012. One senior financial staff has been appointed to be the
 Project Accountant. Due to the work load, two more financial staff will be contracted as local
 consultants to assist the financial management aspects o f the Project. Two provincial finance
 staff will be appointed at each participating provinces andreceive training before the start of the
 Project for the maintenance o f a simple Bank Control Book and the Monthly Summary
 Transaction Report to be submitted to NAFRI at the end o f the month for entering data in the
 computerized accounting system.

 10.    A short term FM individual consultant will be recruited to provide on-the-job training
 and day to day supervision of the finance section o fNAFRI, at both central and provincial levels,
 during the first six months o f the project implementation. This consultant will also provide
 assistance to modify the existing FMManual to incorporate the Bank financial management and
 disbursement arrangements, such as quarterly financial reporting, auditing, disbursement via
 Statement of Expenditures, direct payment, etc.

 Accounting Policies, System and Procedures

 11.    The key accounting policies and procedures o f the Finance Section have beenwritten in
 the Financial Management Manuai developed in year 2007 by the consultant financed under
 current SIDA Grant. The FM Manual cover requests for expenditure processing and describe
 financial policies and procedures for budgeting; internal controls over petty cash, advance, fixed
 assets; financial accounting system; and all routine financial management and related
 administrative activities, etc. This existing FMManual can be used as a guideline for preparing
 the detailed FMSection ofthe OperationalManual for WIP.



                                                 38

12.     ACCPAC accounting software i s currently utilized by the SIDA-funded project. The
same software will be used to maintain the project accounting books for the proposed RPIP
project. A consulting contract will be procured with a firm or an individual to: (i)set up a
separate accounting system for RPIP using the same ACCPAC accounting software and
configure the IFRsinthe system; and (ii)    provide training to the relevant financial staff inthe use
o f the ACCPAC software.          Double entry accounting principle will be used for recording
accounting transactions on a cash basis. The accounting period i s based on budget year o f the
governmentstarting from lSt to 30thSeptember.
                               October

13.     The Project i s encouraged to minimize making payment in cash.                 The payment
transaction in exceed o f $500 shall be made by Bank transfer or check. The procedures and
controls on payments would be described indetails inthe FMManual.

Budgeting

14.     The government budgets as currently prepared do not lay down physical and financial
targets. However, budgets are prepared for all significant activities in sufficient detail to provide
a meaningful tool with which to monitor subsequent performance.            Actual expenditures are
normally compared to the budget every quarter and explanations obtained for significant
variances from budget. Approvals for variations from budget are obtained inadvance.

15.     Similar procedures will also be adopted for the Project. Compilation o fthe Annual Work
Plans (AWPs) will be prepared by NAFRIin coordination with other participating agencies and
to be consistence with the national policies and overall strategies for the country, as well as with
available resources. The AWPs will outline all significant activities in sufficient details; an
activity code will be assigned for each activity and will be referred to when payment or advance
i s requested, in order to ease financial staff for budget monitoring. The AWPs will be submitted
to IDA for discussion on an annual basis andwill be reviewed and revisedbi-annually.

FundsFlow andDisbursementArrangements

16.     The Grant funds will be advanced from the Bank to a DesignatedAccount (DA) to be
managed by the Ministry o fFinance. To facilitate the implementation, one Project Bank
Account will be opened at each location for small payments, such as training and operating costs:
at NAFRI-Vientiane; at the Research Centers (Saravane and Champasak); and at the Sub
Stations (Khammouane and Savannakhet). The payments for procured goods or service rendered
will be done from the DA or via direct payment bythe Bank. It is expected that the majority o f
the works and goods (mostly under ICB) will be paidusingdirect payment by the Bank. The
funds from the DA will betransferred to the five Project Bank Accounts equivalent to
approximately four months project expenditures. The Project Bank Accounts will bereplenished
monthly from the DA. Whilst the DA will be administered by the MOF, day to day management
andreplenishment to the DAwill be doneby NAFFUincluding expendituresincurred by all
components.




                                                   39

                             Table 2: Allocation of Grant Proceeds




           remental Operating Costs,
       and Training under the Project
       TOTAL AMOUNT                                $3.000.000

DisbursementArrangements

17.     The project will use transaction based disbursement procedures: usingthe DA for mainly
small expenditures, with replenishment on the basis o f statements of expenditures (SOEs); direct
payment method may also be used for expenditures above the levels for SOEs with full
documentation support (mainly for larger payments such as the civil works and goods under ICB
procedures); reimbursement for eligible expenditures pre-financed by the government.           The
withdrawal application to be submittedwill indicate clearly how much project expenditures will
be claimedunder each category.

Uses of Statements of Expenditures(SOEs)

18.     Expenditures expected to be disbursed on the basis o f SOEs are as follows: (a) works
contracts costing less than US$40,000 equivalent each; (b) goods contracts costing less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent each; (c) services of consultant firms costing less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent each; (d) services o f individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each; (e) operating costs; and (f) training and study tours.

19.     Disbursement for any expenditure exceeding the above limits will be made against
submission o f full documentation andsigned contracts.

20.     The documentation supporting SOEs disbursements will be retainedby the project during
the life o f the project and until at least the later of: (i) (1) year after the Recipient and the
                                                            one
Bank has received the audited financial statements covering the period during which the last
withdrawal from the Financing Account was made; and (ii)       two (2) years after the Closing Date.
These documents will be made available for review by the auditors and Bank supervision
missions.

21.     Should the auditors or the Bank's IDA supervision mission find that disbursements have
been made that are not justified by supporting documentations, or are ineligible, the Bank will
have the right to withhold further advances to the DA. The Bank may exercise this right untilthe
Borrower has refunded the amount involved or (if the Bank agrees) has submitted evidence o f
other eligible expendituresthat offset the ineligible amounts.




                                                   40

RetroactiveFinancing

22.     N o disbursements will be made for payments made prior to the date o f the Grant
Agreement, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$lOO,OOO may
be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after October 16, 2008, for Eligible
Expenditures under Category 2: Consultant Services, Incremental Operating Costs and Training
o f the Grant Agreement.

DesignatedAccount (DA)

23.     To facilitate disbursement o f project proceeds, one Designated Account (DA)
denominated in U S dollar will be opened at the Bank o f Lao in Vientiane and administered by
M O F on behalf o f NAFRI. Payment in cash will be minimized and limited to the petty cash
transactions only. Direct payments to suppliers and contractors will be encouraged. The ceiling
o f the DA will be $150,000, but will be revised when deems necessary. The DA should be
replenished on a monthly basis (irrespective o f the amount involved) to assure liquidity o f funds.
All replenishment applications will be accompanied by reconciled Bank statements from the
depository Bank showing all transactions o f the DA.

ReportingandMonitoring

24.     NAFRI will prepare the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) and submit to MOF and the
Bank quarterly within 45 days after the end o f each quarter. As the IFRs will also be used as a
monitoring tool, it will summarize project progress and explanation and analysis o f variances
between actual and budgeted expenditures. IFRs will include reports on sources and uses o f
funds, the project financial position; project expenditures, physicalprogress compared withplan;
and procurement monitoring. They will not be subject to audit. The format o f the IFRs will be
agreed at negotiations.

InternalControls

25.     Internal controls system described in the Financial Management Manual will provide
guidance to the Project financial staff. There i s no singleperson can initiate, verify and authorize
payments for a transaction. Thejob descriptions and responsibilities for the new contracted staff
will be reviewed by the Bank to make sure that separation o f duties is adequately built in. The
fixed assets register has to be prepared for all fixed assets and physical inventory i s regularly
conducted (at least once a year) to ensure the existence and status. The vehicle logbook i s
prepared and reviewed by the management. The outstanding advance is followed up and the
advance control book i s reconciled to the general ledger. Month-end procedures (such as Bank
reconciliation, cash count, etc.) will be performed by responsible persons and reviewed by
management.

Controlof Soft Expenditures

26.     A number o f measures to strengthen the controls related to soft expenditures (e.g. per
diems, travel, accommodation, hel, training, workshop and seminar costs) will be described in
the FM Manual. Proper budgeting, authorization, control, monitoring and accounting o f these
expenditures are the responsibility o f the Project Director. The Finance Section will have special


                                                 41

oversight responsibilities. The project financial officers will be responsible for ensuring that the
management controls specified inthe FMManual are enforced. These controls included:

    0   Procedures for Budgeting and Acquitting o f Expenditures for Workshops.           This will
        include, for example, controls on attendance, controls against budgeted expenditures, and
        the Finance Section undertakingverification (including where appropriate spot checks).
        Procedures for control o f fuel

    0   Maintenance o f Advance Records

Auditing

27.     There i s no internal audit function within NAFRI, however, NAFRI i s audited by the
Inspection Department o f Ministryo fAgriculture and Forestrytwice a year.

28.     The annual financial statements and designated account for the Project will be audited by
independent auditors under Terms o f Reference acceptable to the Bank. The audit TORSwill
cover both the annual audit of the project financial statements including their consistency with
the quarterly IFRs, and a review o f internal controls andcompliance with the Project Agreement.
The auditor will be required to issue a management letter providing an assessment o f the
financial management system, including the adequacy o f internal controls. The audit report and
the management letter must be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end o f each
fiscal year. The cost o f audit is provided in the project budget and will be paid out o f project
fimds as an authorized expenditure.

FinancialManagementAction Plan

29.     The following actions have been agreed upon:

                                                                                CompletionDate
                                                                                  Disbursement
                                                                               Condition for Grant
                                                                                Category 1: Civil
  months o f the implementation, and modify the                                Works and Goods.


                                                                              Withinthree months
                                                                              after the signature o f
                                                                              the grant agreement.
                                                                              Within three months
                                                                              after the signature of
                                                                              the grant agreement.
                                                                              Within three months
                                                                              after the signature of
                                                                              the grant agreement.

  staff on the use of ACCPAC software.
  Prepare and agree on a format for the Interim          NAFRIandIDA               Negotiation


                                                42

I  statements annually, under T e A -of Reference
   satisfactorv to IDA.


 SupervisionPlan

 30.     As the FM risk is assessed as substantial, financial management supervision will be
 undertaken twice a year by members o f the regional FM team. The supervision will review the
 Project's financial management systems and capacity, in accordance with the FM Manual,
 including but not limited to the operation o f Designated Account, evaluating quality o f budgets,
 financial reports, assessingrelevance ofFMManual, statement o f expenditures, internal controls,
 reporting and follow up o f audit and mission findings. Special attention to review o f soft
 expenditures to check whether they are spent on authentic activities will also be undertaken.
 Intensity o f supervisionwill be reassessedafter the first year o f implementation.




                                                 43

                             FLOW OF FUNDS



                                 World Bank
                               cGrantAccount




                                 Designated
                                  Account at
                                 BankofLao




                                 Project Bank
                                   Account


                                                                  .
                Champassak
 Project Bank   Project Bank                       Project Bank




I                   Contractor/Supplier/Consultant/Beneficiary




                                      44

                             Annex 5: ProcurementArrangements
                     Lao PDR:Rice ProductivityImprovementProject (RPIP)
General.

1.      Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and the IDA'SCredits" dated May 2004,
revised October 2006, and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised October 2006, and the provisions stipulated in the
Grant Agreement. For National Competitive Bidding (NCB), the Government's procurement
procedures as provided in Decree 0 3 P M dated January 9, 2004, and in the ImplementingRules
and Regulations (IRR) dated March 12, 2004, will be followed subject to the improvements
listed inthe NCB-Annex to the Grant Agreement. The appropriate Standard BiddingDocuments
developed by the Procurement Monitoring Office (PrMO) o f the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
will be used for procurement of goods and works under NCB and Shopping, subject to prior
concurrence by the Bank. For International Competitive Bidding (ICB), World Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents shall be used.         The complaints handling mechanism specified in the
government IRR will be followed and also incorporated in the bidding documents. Contract
award information shall be made publicly available in accordance with Banks Procurement
Guidelines in a format agreed with the Bank. The general descriptions o f various items under
different expenditure category are described below. For each contract to be financed by the
Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Recipient and the Bank project
team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

2.      Procurement of Works. Works procured under this Project would include: office,
storage and laboratory building construction and buildingrenovation for seed stations and sub-
stations.  Contracts for these works costing US$300,000 or more each would be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).         Works estimated to cost less than
US$300,000 per contract maybeprocured through National Competitive Bidding(NCB) method
and the procedures, including standard biddingdocuments, set forth in the Decree 0 3 P M dated
January 9, 2004, and in the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) dated March 12, 2004,
including national standard bidding document with Bank's prior concurrence, will be followed
subject to the improvements listed inthe NCB-Annex to the Grant Agreement. Works estimated
to cost less than US$30,000 per contract may be procured through Shopping method and the
procedures, including standard bidding documents, set forth in the aforesaid Decree and in the
IRR.

3.      Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this Project would include: farm
equipment, fertilizer, seed processing equipment, laboratory equipment, workshop equipment,
office equipment, vehicles, computer equipment, furniture and some equipment/materials to
support the project activities. Contract for goods costing US$lOO,OOO or more each would be
procured through ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO per contract may be
procured through NCB method and the procedures, including standard bidding documents, set


                                               45

forth in the Decree 0 3 P M dated January 9, 2004, and in the IRR dated March 12, 2004,
includingnational standard bidding document with Bank's prior concurrence, will be followed
subject to the improvements listed inthe NCB-Annex to the Grant Agreement. Goods estimated
to cost less than US$30,000 per contract may be procured through Shopping method and the
procedures, including standard bidding documents, set forth in the aforesaid Decree and in the
IRR.

4.      Selectionof Consultants. Consultant services are expected inthe following areas: group
formation methodology and testing, seed system design, M&E design and monitoring, seed
coordinator,, financial audits, financial management, procurement and project staff support.
These services would be procured mostly through various selection methods including Quality
and Cost Based Selection (QCBS), Least Cost Selection (LCS), Selection Based on Consultant
Qualifications (CQS), and Individual Consultant depending on the value, nature and complexity
o f the consultant assignments. The use o f the Single Source Selection method for specific
assignments would be subject to prior review and clearance by the Bank and inclusion in the
ProcurementPlan. However, QCBS would generally be the applicable method for each contract
estimated to cost more than US$lOO,OOO equivalent.

5.      Individual Consultants may be selected in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 to 5.4 o f the Consultants Guidelines. Under the circumstances described inparagraph 5.4 o f
the Consultant Guidelines, such contract may be awarded to individual consultant on a sole-
source basis, subject to the prior approval by the Bank.

Assessment of the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement
6.      A Bank's procurement accredited staff carried out a procurement capacity assessment
during the project preparation in September, 2008, and follow-on discussion continued through
appraisal.  Assessment has been carried at Administration and Personnel Division, National
Agriculture & Forestry Research Institute (NAFFU) which will be in-charge o f conducting
project procurement activities as the main project implementing agency. The procurement issues
and risks for implementation o f the proposed project are mainly related to: (i)        inadequate
procurement knowledge and experience in Bank's procedures; and (ii)the risks o f weak
procurement environment inthe country, as a result o f which the pre-mitigation procurement risk
underthe Project is considered to be "High".

7.      Given the fact that NAFRI does not have experience in project implementation using
Bank's procurement policy and procedures, an action plan has been agreed to increase NAFRI's
capacity to carry out the procurement function. The main actions are:

        (a)   A qualified individual international consultant, experienced in WB procurement
              procedures, would be engaged by NAFRI as Procurement Consultant for the first
              six months of project implementation for ensuring compliance in procurement
              process with the Bank's Guidelines and building procurement capacity o f NAFRI
              staff. This i s a Condition for Disbursement o f the grant funds allocated under
              Category 1: Civil Works and Goods of the Grant Agreement.

       (b)    A qualified procurement staffwill be assignedbyNAFRIto serve as the focal point
              for coordination, consultation and follow-up o f procurement activities with NAFRI,


                                                46

              line provincial departments, districts and villages, with support o f the procurement
              consultant, within three months o fthe signature o f the grant agreement;

              A detailed Procurement Plan for the three year o f project implementation has
              already been prepared and agreed with the Bank;

              For strengtheningtransparency and accountability inprocurementprocess, an
              action planfor strengtheningtransparency for the project will be discussed,
              developed and adopted within three months o fthe signature o f the grant agreement.
              This action planwill include butnot limited to the following elements: (i) the
                                                                                          using
              standard format o fbiddingdocuments, request for quotations and evaluationreport
              issued by Procurement Monitoring Office (PrMO), Ministryo f Finance (MOF) for
              National Competitive Bidding(NCB) and Shopping procedures; (ii)        enhanced
              disclosure o fprocurement information i.e. annual procurement plan; a quarterly
              summary o f the contract award information for all procurement packages; (iii)
              establishing a procurement complaint handling mechanism, requiringintegrity
              pacts, and sanctions procedures consistent with the Government Procurement Rules
              &Regulations ofPrMO-MOF,andthe Bank's requirements;

              NAFRI will organize a procurement training workshop for the project
              implementing staff with assistance from the Procurement Monitoring Office
              (PrMO) o f MOF within one month o f the signature o f the grant agreement, and
              periodically during the life o f the project; and

              NAFRIwill adopt a project procurement record and filing systemacceptable to the
              Bankwithin three months o fthe signature o fthe grant agreement.

8.    With incorporation of the capacity strengthening measures and extensive requirements
for improving governance and increasing transparency and accountability in the procurement
process, the residualprocurement risk under the Project is "Substantial".

ProcurementPlan
9.    For project implementation, a detailed Procurement Plan for the three year o f project
implementation will be prepared. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Task Team annually as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvement.

The Bank's ProcurementReviewRequirements

10.   The following contracts shall be subject to Bank's Prior Review in accordance with the
Procurement Guidelines or Consultant Guidelines:

      The first NCB and first Shopping contract for procurement o f goods in each year and all
      subsequent contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract;

   0  The first NCB and Shopping contract for procurement o f works in each year and all
      subsequent contracts exceeding US$ 300,000 equivalent per contract;



                                                   47

    0   All contracts for goods andworks procuredthrough ICB and direct contracting;

    0   The first contract for hiring o f consulting firms and the first contract for hiring o f
        individuals, regardless o f value, and all subsequent consulting services contracts
        exceeding US$lOO,OOO equivalent for firms and US$$50,000 equivalent for individuals
        per contract, respectively;

    0   All contracts for hiring of firms and individuals procured through Single Source
        Selection;

11.     All other contracts shall be subject to ex-post review by the Bank, and will also include
checks for transparency in the procurement process and verification o f end-use deliveries, in
addition to verification o f compliance with the agreed procurement procedures. The percentage
to apply to the sample for ex-post review will be 30%.

12.     FrequencyofSupervision. In addition to the prior review, the assessment of the
capacity o f the Project Implementing Agency recommended, that procurement supervision
mission including post review will be conducted at least twice per year.

Details of the ProcurementArrangement for Itemsto be Procuredin the first 18 monthsof
Implementation.

13.     Works & Goods. A list o fICB contract package to beprocured duringthe three year o f
the project i s presented inthe following table:




 ICB-1        Pick-up 4 x 4   303,000       ICB        Yes        Prior     Jan, 2009   NAFRI
              double cab 4
              units,
              motorcycles
              40 units, 6
              ton truck 3
              units & Bus
              33 seat 1unit
 ICB-2        Farm            259,000      ICB         Yes        Prior     Jan, 2009   NAFRI
              Equipment I:
              Tractor 54
              kw 4 units,
              Tractor 20
              kw4 units,
              Implement
              package for
              20 kw
              Tractor 4
              units &
              Trailer 4 ton



                                                48

            capacity 2
            units,Rotary
            Cultivator,
            tractor
            mounted: 3
            units
 ICB-3      Farm            150,000     ICB         Yes         Prior     Jan 2009   NAFRI
            Equipment
            11: .Plot
            Harvester,
            Rice
            Floatation
            tires: 3 units,
            &
            Transplanting
            Machine 3
            units
 ICB-4      Processing      229,000     ICB         Yes         Prior     Jan 2009   NAFRI
            Equipment I:
            winnower,
            belt driven 3
            units,
            winnower,
            belt driven
            0.5 ton,
            Thresher, belt
            driven 3
            t o h ,
            Thresher, belt
            driven 0.5
            ton/hr &
            Seed Drier
 ICB-5      Laboratory      81,350      ICB         Yes         Prior     Jan 2009   NAFRI
            Equipment
            for NAFRI
            Soil Lab &
            Naphok Seed
            Lab
 ICB-6      NPK             826,250     ICB         Yes        Prior      Jan 2009   NAFRI
            Fertilizer,
            Urea, Borex
            Fertilizer &
            Ammonia
            Sulfate

14.    All ICB contracts and all direct contracting contracts (if any) will be subject to prior
review by the Bank.



                                             49

15.     Consulting Services. A list o f Consulting Assignments with short-list o f international
firms i s presented below.




   1         NGO contract-group         90,000               Prior     Jan, 2009     NAFRI
              formation methodology
              and testing

16.     Consultancy services estimated to cost above $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for
individuals per contract, and all Single Source Selection of consultants (firms and individuals)
will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

17.     Short lists composed entirely of national ,consultants. Short lists of consultants for
services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely
o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                              50

                     Annex 6 : Implementationand MonitoringFramework
                   Lao PDR: Rice ProductivityImprovementProject(RPIP)

Introduction

1.      The project management monitoring and evaluation component will provide management
to project implementation, coordinate implementing agencies, and ensure timely deliver of
scheduled inputs. Outputs from the component will include a baseline survey; with and without
project sub-surveys; preparation o f all project-related reports; and, recommendations for project
related initiatives to enhance project effectiveness.

Key indicators

2.      The main Project Development Objective would be to increase rice productivity and
overall volume o f rice production among smallholders in four selected provinces, thereby
substantially increasing incomes and improving food security for small farm households. This
would result in a very rapid reduction of seasonal and disaster related shortages o f rice in the
project areas, as well as reducing the impacts o f rising food prices and population increases in
the longer term.

3.      These objectives would be achieved through: (i)      improvements in the capacity o f the
public sector (research centers and seed multiplication stations) to produce larger quantities o f
high quality seed (breeder, foundation and registeredseed) o f the most appropriate varieties for
the different Lao conditions; and (ii)  establishment o f a system o f seed multiplication by small
farmers' groups based on the use o f modem high yielding technical packages, that would
demonstrate the benefits o f this improved technology and would start the process o f creating a
sustaineddemand for highquality seed andother highyielding inputs.


4.      For Component A, Support to Rice Seed Systems, the following indicators are proposed:

    0   Production indicator: Incrementalproduction o fR1foundation and R2 registered seed by
        the public sector. Investments by the project would strengthen the capacity o f RRMCs to
        provide an increased volume o f foundation and registered seed. In addition, the
        productivity and sales o f the assisted RRMCs should increase making possible greater
        financial sustainability;
        System indicators: The volume and variety (upland and lowland) o f R1 and R2 seeds
        exchanged among RRMCs. This should increase, allowing for dissemination of high
        quality seed material to both upland and lowland farmers and the development of non
        glutinous rice production for sale as a cash crop. It should also demonstrate reduced
        dependence on one or two centers as at present;
   0    Numbero ftraining days provided to farmer leaders and technicians;
        Proportion o f production sold o f f as paddy as an indicator o f management ability to
        gauge demandand match supply.




                                                 51

5.     For Component B, Support for Farmer Seed Groups and On-Farm Demonstrations, the
following indicators are proposed:

ProductionIndicators:

    0  The number o f farmers, compared to the baseline data using improved seed and adopting
       technical packages for rice production (improved seed and chemical fertilizers) at the
       village cluster level;
    0  Participatingsmallholder seed farmer incomes compared to baseline;
    0  Participating farmers' number o f months o f food insecurity (defined as the number o f
       months without rice sufficient to meet family consumption needs) compared to baseline;
    0  Proportion o f seed soldtraded as quality R3 seed for sowing compared to paddy for
       consumption

6.      For Component 3 ,Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation

SystemIndicator:

       The volume o frice producedby farmer production and marketing groups for sale as seed,
       rather than for consumption, would increase;
    0  Demand for improved rice seed as measured by seed sales and /or trade compared to
       baseline;
    0  Volume o f seed used for Glutinous compared to non- glutinous production

MonitoringandEvaluationImplementationandStaffingStrategy

Background and Rationalefor the Group Approach

7.     The key change required in production and sale o f seed from seed stations (Annex 1)is
the development o f markets for R2 seed with dedicated seed producer farmer groups who would
multiplyR2 seed to good quality third generation R3 seed for trade and sale to other farmers. If
these producers bought R2 seed on a regular annual basis, much of the waste of R2 seed for
direct paddy production, as currently practiced, would be avoided and seed stations could be
largelyself sustaining along business lines ,as is now the case at Thasano (Savannakhet).


8.     N o project involving farmer groups can succeed with reliance on top down supervision.
Instead the RPIP project would support the development o f capacity at village level under the
Lao Extension Approach which was developed under the support o f Switzerland in the Lao
Extension for Agriculture Project (LEAP) and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MAF) through NAFES inNovember 2001. In this approach, the village development
committee (VDC) or village cluster (Kum Bahn) administrators would take responsibility for
village selection and farmer group formation and self-monitoring. Farmer leaders would be
trained at the rice research and multiplication centers (RRMCs) enabling them to guide their
fellow group members. The incentives provided to farmers to follow project conditions for input
supply would be the value of seed and fertilizer supplied intwo allocations for either a wet and



                                                52

an irrigated dry season crop or two wet season crops inrainfed areas. The disincentive for poor
performance would thus be withdrawal o f assistance from the RPIP after the first season and the
penalty thus imposed on that group and village as the project moved on to another village in the
same village cluster. Monitoring indicators would include adoption o f agreed conditions of
support by all group members and the village development committee.

Group FormationandScheduling

9.      Group formation i s a specialized social process. An experienced locally based
international NGO would be contracted by the RPP from March-June 2009 to develop a group
formation methodology, undertake the formation o f the first 40 seed producer groups and the
baseline survey among those 40 groups. The groups would then receive technical support from'
the RFWCs, contracted staff/consultants and some PAFODAFO staff. The technical staffwould
also benefit byparticipation ingroup formation to enable them to form the bulk o f farmer groups
duringimplementation.


10.     Selection criteria for the INGOwould include:

   0   Locally based group with a Lao speaking international specialist as part time coordinator;

   0   Lao professional staff with significant experience in working with the participating ethnic
       groups under the project, including relevant language skills, and willingness to work at the
       village level for up to three months;
   0   A demonstrated willingness to involve and train both student enumerators and DAFO and
       RPP contracted staff in forming farmer seed producer groups and in baseline survey
       techniques.

11.     Developing the necessary R3 production groups will require a phased approach. Based on
the experience o f other programs that have organized farmer producer and marketing groups,
group formation takes about five working days in an elapsed time o f 10 days. This allows for
intra-village consultation, household consideration, and one or more village meetings. The
schedule for group formation proposed as an initial estimate i s based on forming about 80 new
groups between each season (i.e., every 6 months). An indicative schedule for group formation i s
givenbelow.




Groups
        Total            40  I        80         200          120             200         40

12.     Unfortunately, because new producer groups in irrigated areas are not formed for the
2008 dry season, the new rainfed groups formed in the wet season o f 2011 will have only one
season o f project participation. They would receive the normal seedfertilizer package plus



                                                53

intensive training in the 2011 wet season and fertilizer and cold stored seed for the 2012 wet
season. No new groups would be formed for the final 2011 dry season due to wind down o f
consultancy andcontract employee services.

OutreachApproach

13.    Conventional practice in support o f GOL programs supports travel andper diem costs for
Government employees. Although this project supports the GOL's policy o f village group
formation and development, extension services at the village level has not, in many cases,
commenced in the project area and thus cannot be fully supported in the conventional manner.
Instead the project would adopt the following approach to technical assistance:

    0  Where extension staff i s already assigned at the Kum Bahn level, the project would
       support them with per diem and motorcycles as required, in cases where such mobility i s
       not available;
       The project would also recognize the severe shortage o f qualified and experienced
       agricultural sector personnel in Lao PDR. It would therefore develop capacity among
       qualified but less experienced graduates of Lao agricultural colleges and universities.
       Recent graduates would be employed as junior consultants by NAFRI on 30 month
       contracts enabling them to gain experience as enumerators, technical assistants, and
       village outreach workers in support o f the monitoring and evaluation component. The
       approach would make use o f their energy and willingness to work on modest salaries in
       isolated areas. Two graduates per province would be assigned to full time producer group
       formation and monitoring and evaluation activities following training to be provided by
       the contracted INGO. Training would focus on social processes and seed production
       technology at the RRMCs;
    0  They would be supervised and supportedby two experienced contract coordinators and
       by local PAFO andDAFO extension staff with support from the RPIP, and, appointed as
       individual consultants engaged in Outreach Coordinator positions at the RRMCs. The
       procedure would support program 2 (agriculture) o f the Government Plan on the
       Elaboration of the Resolution o f the eighth Party Congress for the period 2006 to 2010
       (May 2006), specifically for:
            o Projects to promote family business and establishment o f cooperatives , and
                production groups; and,
            o Projects for skill development for farmers.

14.    The project would support mobility o f provincial and district extension staff (where
present at village level) andNAFRIconsultants. This would be achieved through

    0   The provision o f 30 motorcycles and support for operations and maintenance costs to
        develop the required farmer groups at the village cluster level;
    0   The provision of pickups at the research stations for use by the coordinators. The pickups
        would be assigned to the mainmultiplication centers at project conclusion

15.    These measures would be phased according to farmer group development requirements.




                                               54

16.     The approach also recognizes that although there has been considerable investment in
research in Lao PDR, the concept o f outreach i.e. packaging research results in preparation for
extension - i s scarcely known in Lao PDR and is needed to make best use o f research results.
Outreach is widely developed as a concept in the Land Grant Universities o f the United States
and the Cooperative Research Centers (CRCs) inAustralia. ASEAN neighboring countries such
as Cambodia implementedsuch approaches inpartnership with IRRIinthe 1990s.


Routine Monitoring and Evaluation after Group formation

17.     The consultant staff, enumerators, and DAFO / village cluster workers would conduct
regular visits to all groups. This is required particularly at key times such as plantinghasal
fertilizer application, mid season topdressing and rougeing (removal of off types) and prior to
harvest to ensure separation o f processing o f varieties. A rigorous cleaning procedure between
processing o f each variety would be developed and applied for winnowers andthreshers supplied
by the project. Emphasis would be on training o f women farmers in this procedure as a
contribution to reductiono f their labor.

18.     The monitoring group in each province would consist o f the R M M C based coordinator
plus a field team of two junior consultant staff per province with two student enumerators per
consultant.. They would visit 10 groups per team on a bi- monthly schedule. The team would
spend about halftheir time on in-season monitoring andhalftheir time onbetween-season group
formation.

19.     Data recording and analysis would occur using the coordinators supported by technical
assistance from a consultant monitoring and evaluation specialist engaged for 3 annual inputs
during project life for: staff training (yearl); mid-term evaluation (year2); and, the final
evaluationreport (year 3).

                 Table 5: Matrix of monitoring and evaluation responsibilities

  Component         Sequence        Responsible          TimingI               Scope
                        of             group(s)          Schedule
                    Activities
Component A:       Baseline    Baselinesurvey will be  January 2009  - Establishcurrent
Support to         survey      defined and conductedby (or sooner)     productionlevelsofrice
Rice Seed                      the international                       seedat selectedRRMCs
                               monitoringand evaluation              - Volume of seed/ha
Systems                        specialist                            - Current levelof seed
                                                                     - exchanges amongstations
                                                                       Output:baseline survey
                                                                       report
                   Equipment   NAFRI                   February-     - Equipment lists prepared
                   procurement                         March2009       by end of 2008
                   to support                                        - NAFRIpersonneltrained
                   RRMCS                                               before end of 2008
                   Equipment   NAFRI                   February-     - Equipment lists prepared
                   procurement                         March2009       by end of2008
                   to support                                        - NAFRIpersonneltrained
                   PAFO &                                              before end of2008
                   DAFO
                  personnel


                                                    55

IComponent   Sequence            Responsible            TimingI                Scope
                    of              group@)             Schedule
             Activities
            Delivery o f    NAFRI                     April -May    - Equipment i s inspected
            equipment to                              2009            anddocumented.
            RRMCS
            Delivery of     NAFRI                    April -May     - Equipment i s inspected
            equipment                                 2009            and documented.
            to PAFOS
            and DAFOs
            Annual          - NAFRI                   January 2010    Production o f rice seed
            benchmark       - Benchmark surveys       January 2011  --Rice seed /ha
            survey             will be defined and                  - No. of seed exchanges
                               conducted by the                       among RRMCs
                               international                        - No. of training sessions
                              monitoring and                        - No. of trainees
                               evaluation specialist                - No. of technical packages
                                                                      prepared for extension
                                                                    - No. of contract farmer
                                                                      seed producers
                                                                      Benchmark surveyreports.
            Baseline        Baseline survey will be   January 2009  --Physical inventory o f
            inventory o f   defined and conducted by  (or sooner)     equipment, supplies, and
            equipment,      the international                         facilities.
            facilities, and monitoringand evaluation                - Examine no. and
            audit o f       specialist                                qualifications o f staff.
            RRMC staff                                              - Baseline survey report
            Annual          Benchmark surveys will    January 2010  - Physical inventory o f
            benchmark       be defined and conducted  January 2011    equipment, supplies, and
            survey o f      by the international                      facilities.
            equipment,      monitoring and evaluation               - Examine no. and
            facilities, and specialist                                qualifications o f staff.
            audit of                                                - Benchmark survey reports.
           RFWC staff




                                                  56

        Table 5: Matrix of monitoringand evaluationresponsibilities(continued)

  Component        Sequenceof         Responsible        TimingI             Scope
                    Activities           group(s)        Schedule
ComponentB,      Recruitment o f   NAFRI&World         March-June    Focus would be o n
Supportfor       an INGO           Bank                2009          experiencedINGOs in
Farmer Seed                                                          Lao PDR
GroupsandOn-     Develop a group   INGO, NAFES         July-August   - Lessons learned
Farm             formation                             2009            from other projects

Demonstrations   methodology                                           & INGOsinLao
                                                                     - Application o f Lao
                                                                       Extension
                                                                       Approach
                 Formation o f the INGO,NAFES,         August-       - 40 seedproducer
                 first 40 seed     PAFO, DAFO          October 2009    groups
                 producer groups                                     - Focus on dry season
                                                                       producers
                 Develop dry       NAFRI,NAFES,        August-       - Technical packages
                 seasontechnical   PAFO, DAFO,         October 2009    developed suitable
                 packages for      RRMCs                               to most common
                 farmer groups                                         soil types in4
                                                                       project provinces
                 Baseline survey   INGO, NAFES,        October -     - Baseline survey
                 among those 40    PAFO, DAFO,         December        report
                 groups            student enumerators 2009          - Recommendations
                                                                       for focusing the
                                                                       project
                 Technical         RRMCs, contract     November      - Scheduled,
                 support to        personnel,          2009- January   documented, and
                 farmer groups     consultants, PAFO,  2010            audited technical
                 from RRMCs,       DAFO, village                       assistance
                 contracted staff  cluster workers                   - Regular visits to all
                 /consultants, and                                     groups
                 PAFO / DAFO                                         - Focus on dry season
                                                                       rice crop
                Formation o f 40   INGO, NAFES,        February -    - 2"* set o f producer
                 seedproducer      PAFO, DAFO          M a y 2010      groups
                groups                                               - Focusonwet
                                                                       seasonproducers
                Baseline survey    INGO, NAFES,        March-May     - Baseline survey
                 among those 40    PAFO, DAFO          2010            report
                group                                                - Recommendations
                                                                       for focusing the
                                                                       project
                Benchmark          INGO, PAFO,         March-May     - Benchmark survey
                survey on 1''      DAFO, student       2010            report on 1st groups
                farmer groups      enumerators                       - Recommendations
                                                                       for focusing the
                                                                       project




                                                 57

         Table 5: Matrix of monitoringand evaluation responsibilities(continued)

 Component        Sequenceof           Responsible          TimingI              Scope
                    Activities           group(s)           Schedule
ComponentB,     Technical support  RRMCs, contract         M a y -     - Scheduled,
Support for     to farmer groups   personnel, consultants, September     documented, and
Farmer Seed     from RRMCs,        PAFO, DAFO              2010          audited technical
Groupsand       contracted staff                                         assistance to 80 farmer
On-Farm         /consultants, and                                        producer groups

Demonstrations  PAFO / DAFO                                            - Focus on wet season
                                                                         rice crop
                Formation o f 40   INGO, NAFES,            October - - 31dset o f producer
                seedproducer       PAFO, DAFO              December      groups
                groups                                     2010        - Focus on dry season
                                                                         producers
                Baseline survey    INGO, NAFES,            October -   --Baseline survey report
                among those 40     PAFO, D A F O           December      Recommendations for
                group                                      2010           focusing the project
                Benchmark          INGO, PAFO, DAFO,       January -   -  Benchmark surve
                survey on 1" &     student enumerators     March 2011    report on lSt2sets
                                                                                       & 2n
                zndsets o f farmer                                        o f groups
                groups                                                 -  Recommendations for
                                                                          focusing the project
                Technical support  RRMCs, contract         M a y -     - Scheduled,
                to farmer groups   personnel, consultants, September      documented, and
                from RRMCs,        PAFO, DAFO              2011           audited technical
                contracted staff                                          assistance to 80 farmer
                /consultants, and                                        producer groups
                PAFO / DAFO                                            -  Focus on wet season
                                                                          rice crop
Component C,    Recruitment o f    NAFRI,World Bank        December    Either an experienced
Project         technical                                  2008 -      senior Lao or regionally
Management      assistance from a                          February    based international
andMonitoring   consultant                                 2009        monitoring and
andEvaluation   monitoring and                                         evaluation specialist
                evaluation
                specialist
                Staff training     - Monitoring and        March-      Training o f RMMC
                                     evaluation specialist M a y 2009  coordinators, contractual
                                   - RMMCbased                         staff, and student
                                     coordinators                      enumerators inproject
                                                                       monitoring and
                                                                       evaluation techniaues.
                Mid-term           - Monitoring and        June 2010   Mid-term evaluation
                evaluation           evaluation specialist             report with
                                   - RMMCbased                         recommendations for
                                     coordinators                      project modifications.
                Final evaluation   - Monitoring and        October - Final evaluation report
                                     evaluation specialist December    with recommendations
                                   - RMMCbased             2011        for rice seed production
                                     coordinators                      and multiplication system
                                                                       improvement based on
                                                                       lessons learned from the
                                                                       project.




                                                58

                         Annex 7:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                     Lao PDR: Rice ProductivityImprovementProject(RPIP)




Board Approval
Planned Date for Effectiveness
Planned Date o f Mid-Term Review


Key Institutionsresponsible for preparationofthe project include:

   0    MinistryofAgriculture andForestry(MAF)
   0    National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI)

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the projectincluded




Phetsila Somsanith             ProgramAssistant                    EACLF
Olga Hoxon-Rizo                ProgramAssistant                    EASRE
Richard Chisholm               Task Team Leader                    EASRE
                                                                        ~~



Manida Unkulvasapaul           Environmental Specialist            EASRE
Viengkeo Phetnavongxay         Environment Specialist              EASRE
Guzman Garcia-Rivero           Consultant                          EASRE
Dan Gibson                     Senior Social Scientist             EASSI
Tony Zola                      Consultant                          EASRE
JohnRichardson                 Consultant                          EASRE
Syboun Phandanouvong           Social Development Specialist       EASSO
Nipa Siribuddhamas             Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO




                                               59

                                    Annex 8 FinancialAnalysis
                     Lao PDR: Rice ProductivityImprovement Project (RPIP)



Introduction

1.       A key question for the Project is whether the initiative would be sustainable after project
completion, on the basis o f the surpluses generated at farm level. The limitation to developing
sustainability in the absence o f public sector support i s not so much production as demand. For
example, peak production at Thasano station in the last 10 years was 300 tons compared to 50
today because excess production must be sold as paddy at low prices. To be sustainable interms
o f both variable and fixed costs of operation on relatively small areas with intensive capital
investment in machinery and infrastructure requires much higher prices and relatively low
variable costs to give adequate gross margins.


2.       At farm level, awareness o f the need for both an improved variety and fresh seed at
regular intervals is very low owing to inadequate exposure to demonstration o f benefits. The
Improving Crops Yield Project o f ACIAR has clearly demonstrated 15-20% yield improvement
with fresh seed. A combination o f fresh seed and basal plus topdress application o f fertilizer
lifted yield from an average 1.8tha in most villages to over 5tha in one village using these
techniques under rainfed conditions. The key to increasing demand i s thus to first demonstrate
the benefits o f good seed and adequate fertilizer widely, using a range o f glutinous varieties for
consumption and non glutinous varieties for cash sales to purchase inputs. Once demand i s
established, a sustainable base for both R1 and R2 production at the seed centers and R3
productionby dedicated seedproducers should exist.


BusinessAnalysis-ConventionalRice Seed Productionwith GoodAgriculturalPractice

3.       Based on an examination of the gross margin analysis tables (Appendix 1 to this Annex)
for conventional glutinous rice, as are summarized in Table 1, the returnto labor-day for an R4
paddy producer i s approximately doubled in either wet or dry season under the project (better
managed and higher fertilizer input, fresh clean seed, sales o f surplus as non glutinous rice for
export), compared to a without project scenario in which farmers use fertilizer without technical
support, grow their own replacements seed and sell surplus production as glutinous varieties to
local buyers. Moreover, seed and fertilizer inputs are a much lower percentage o f surpluses than
i s the case for the existing situation and are easily covered by the surplus. .The model i s much
more attractive overall than the option of selling labor to work on a nearbyconcession plantation
for 25,000 kip (US$2.94) per day.


4.      The difference in surplus cash income between "with project" and "without project" is
similar for production of R3 registered seed. The higher return generated in the "with project"
scenario i s due to application of a technology package supported by the project consisting o f
improved rice seed and chemical fertilizers and the promotion o fnon glutinous varieties.


                                                 60

 5.      R2 production at current highprices is attractive on a per hectare basis even usinghired
 labor for all operations. Thus at Thasano Station, for example, estimated annual variable costs
 (excluding permanent labor paid by the Province) are approximately $2352ha/annumover 17 ha
 o f farm area.. A gross margin o f 20 million kipha i s required to break even. The budgets shown
 below do not meet that requirement but by using contract outgrowers, the station operates
 successfully. The R2 seed i s purchased at higherprices than paddy (about 20%) from outgrowers
 who are also supplied with technical assistance. It i s thenprocessed and sold at higher margins
 as clean quality seed. However, sustainability depends on volume o f sales to meet total overhead
 and variable costs given restricted areas on seed stations and high costs overhead costs of
 equipment.


 Table 1: Assumed ProjectImpactonYields- Lowlands

         Production    I       With ProjectYield(kgha)          1      Without     Project   YieldI

                               Season                                  Season
         R2                    4500             5000                    3500           4500
         R3                    4000             4500                    2900           3500
        R4                     3500             4000                    2500           3500


 Table 2: Business Modelfor SustainableConventionalRice Production




 R2                                           Wet Season Dry Season Wet Season Dry Season
                       Net Income ( Kipha)     16950750      19289250      12254125     14792625

                       Returd                  178429        203045        128991       155712
                       Labor Day

                        Seed+Fertilizer Cost   1392500       1354000       1392500      1354000
                                               8             7             11           9
IR3                  I                       I              I            I             I           I
                     I Surplus ( Kipha)      I6300000       17875000     I2025000      I3375000

                       Returd                  116250        135938        62813        79688
                       Labor Day

                        Seed/Fret Cost         1816500       1978000       1031000      1192500
                     I (%of surplus)
                       \700Isurplus)          29             25            51           35
 R4


                                                 61

                               Returnl                            91875               110000            46875                65625
                               Labor Dav

                                 Seeuertilizer Cost                1816500            1978000            1031000             1192500
                               (% of surplus)                     49                 39                  131                 56

Notes: -- US$l.OO= 8,500 Laokip
          Current wage rates for laborers: Vientiane Capital City: 30,000 kip or US$3.53per labor-day; agriculturelabor in southern provinces:

       -  23,000 to 25,000 kip or USS2.71to $2.94 per labor-day.
          Current wage rates for laborersin Thai borderprovinces: 154Thai baht (US4.53) per labor-day (USSl.00 = 34.00 Thai baht).


BusinessModelfor the Productionand Marketingof OrganicAromatic, non-glutinous
Rice

6.          Attached Table 4 presents a simple analysis o f the production o f organic aromatic, non-
glutinous rice, using the `Hom Savanh' variety." Using this business model, the "with project"
scenario (assuming that chemical fertilizers and pesticides are not applied, but that registered and
certified seeds are used) demonstrates that the farmer return to labor-day i s significantly greater
thancanbe earned as anagricultural laborer at anearby agricultural concessionplantation. Using
R2 seeds to produce R3 certified seedand selling the R3 seeds to other farmers, organic aromatic
non-glutinous rice farmers can generate a return that i s nearly 80 percent greater (i.e., 25,000 kip
per day at the plantation versus 119,990 kip per day growing organic rice) than the wage that i s
paid at the plantation. Evenwhen farmers produce non-glutinous, organic aromatic rice for local
and regional markets using the R4 replication, the return to labor-day i s more than three times
(25,000 kip per day versus 75,000 kip per day, and even 65,000 kip per day in the `without
project' scenario) that receivedas a laborer.


7.          Primary market research conducted among Thai rice growers, rice millers, and provincial
commerce officials in two provinces bordering Lao PDR (Ubon Ratchathanee and Amnat
Charoen)12indicatedthat Lao rice likely i s brought into Thailand through traditional cross-border
trading posts and sold to local itinerant traders. Cross-border trade at these locations i s unofficial
and any inspections are perfunctory, according to Thai Customs officials contacted. l3Although
border traders, commerce officials, and representatives o f the Ubon Ratchathanee and Nakhon
Phanom chambers o f commerce all denied that rice was imported from Lao PDR, it i s likely to
be imported unofficially and mixed with Thai rice; and, subsequently sold as Thai rice. The
farmgate prices o f Thai Jasmine rice (obtained from Thai commerce officials and border rice


`II t i s understood that this i s a Lao variation o f the well-known Thai Jasmine variety of non-glutinous rice referred
to inThailand as `hom dok mali'.
  Personal commutations with the UbonRatchathanee and Amnat Charoen provincial commerce offices; rice
traders located indistricts close to the Mekong Riverbordering Savannakhet and Saravane provinces, Lao PDR;
and, the UbonRatchathanee Chamber o f Commerce; on 1 October 2008.
l3Personal communications with Thai Customs officials inAmnat Charoen Province on 1October 2008.


                                                                      62

millers) and Lao Horn Savarzh rice (obtained from the Thasano Rice Research and Multiplication
Center, Savannakhet Province) are the same: 30,000 Thai baht per ton or 8,000 kip per kilogram.


8.      As can be seen from the estimates presentedin Table 4, Lao rice farmers could increase
their farm incomes significantly by cultivating even small areas o f non-glutinous aromatic rice
varieties. It i s likely that if the product could be marketed as organic rice an additional premium
could be generated. However, in the context o f the structure o f rural markets inthe four project
provinces and the under-developed nature o f the nearby cross-border markets, a premium for
organic rice i s not available. Nevertheless, representatives of farmer groups in Ubon
Ratchathanee andh a t Charoen provinces pointed out that the organic movement was growing
in the area and that some Bangkok-based traders were paying premiums for organically
cultivated aromatic non-glutinous rice. This development provides an opportunity for Lao
farmers to benefit from such a premium, giventhe slower development o f an organic rice market
inLao PDR.




                                                   63


                  00
 \D             3
 N              3
 N                N


                     n
                     8 M


     0 0 0
 00
 0
       \D\D\D 3   ?


       3 3 3
 iD    ? ? ?      00
              0   3
 N                3
 N     $322   8   N


                     n
                     8  ba

                      4
 0     0 0 0
 00    \D\D\D 0       P


                  00
                  ''
                  3
                  N


                      n
                      8 M


                      P
                      3.
 0     0 0 0
 00    \D\D\D 3   ?


                  00
                  3.
                  3
                  N


                      n
                      8 M


                      3
 0     0 0 0
 00    \o\o\o 0




3   N

          8
          0


                           8
                0 0 0
                E, 00,
                0 0 0          0 0 0
                           .r(
                       c7  3   b b b
          0        3 3     3


0         m
.I
Q)
h         v,
Q         m
ii-
a
h




Q
F      0 0
m    x
     5 2
       0 0
          0-
          c\1    ao ?oo cc?


          0
          8


                o o c
                 o o c         0 0 0
                               bQ0
                 Q*-,?
          0     N N -




          m
          v,
          m      d o c



.I
0
BF     0
       0 0C

      '", on
0     3   c\l




                                    n

                                          Annex 9: Country at Glance


                                   Lao PDR at a glance
                                                                     East
                                                            Lao    h i s EL     LOW-
                                                           W R     Pocifk     lncoms     Developmentdiamond*


                                                             5 9    1,914       1298
                                                            580     2,180        578                  Lifeexpectancy
                                                             3 4    4,174        749                        T
                                                             1 6       O S        2 2
                                                             2 9       1 2        2 7


                                                             33
                                                             30        43         32
                                                             64        71         57
                                                             59        24          85
                                                                       13          2s
                                                             60        87          68
                                                             69        91          61
                                                            116       110          94
                                                            123       111        100
                                                            109        109         89


                                                           '1997    2006        Mor      Eccnomioratjos'
                                                             1 7       3 4        4 0
                                                                     32 5
                                                            239      360                                  Trade
                                                                     26 2
                                                            154       19 3                                  T

                                                           -10 B    -13 4
                                                             0 4       2 2
                                                          1328       87 7
                                                             6 5      93 4
                                                                     68 4
                                                                    1839
                                                                                                       Indebtedness
                                                           2006     2007      2007.91

                                                             7 6       7 1                       -Leo       PDR
                                                             5 8       5 3                       -L      ow4ncMn Q W P
                                                            288


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                 1987      1997                 2007   I
PA CrG#P)                                                           2006                 Gr&     of caphrland GDP (W)          I
Agnculture                                                  52 8     42 0                                                      I
                                                                                                                               I
bdtry                                                       210      32 5
  Mmifactunng                                               159      20 9                u1
Services                                                    261      25 5                to
                                                                                          0
Hausholdfinalconsumptonexpenditure               894                 64 5                        02    03    W     05   C6   07
Generalgast Malmnsumpbonexpendfitire               8 3                 9 3                         -GCF          -GDP
Importsdgwdssnd services                                                               I
                                                 140        41 3     42 3                                                      I
                                             1987-97 199747         2006        2007   I
f8WWStMW! Pro&)                                                                          Gmwth ofexports and imports(W)        I
Agriculture                                       4 8        3 6       2 0
Industry                                         13B        113       165
  ManufsRUflng                                   150         97        9 2
Sewleer                                           5 7        6 4       6 8

HouieWdfinal consumptea,expenditure                          29       4 6
GcnemlgovYfinalconsumptmexpcndrhire                          9 7      179
Grow cam1formahn                                            138        7 3
Impartsofgwds andsmwes                                       9 8       3 6

Nde xto7 datu are preliminaryeshrnaiss
Thistable was poducedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicsLo8 database
* The diamondsshow (arr key idic6tors int k colmtsi(inbold)ccfnpsrbdM h itr inccme-prmpaverapc Ifdataarc mlsmg. mC d i a w wlS
  be inwmpiete




                                                                  66

2987



 '4 5




 -43


1987

   43



  144




4987

   65
  i47
  -83       -i


  - * 4    -13

           -16
  -93

  61       -3

   I?



175 1


1987

3
    0
  4@

   :0
    0
    0


  53
  63
    0

    0


   "5
    5
    D
    5
    0
    5

                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 36573

 100                                       102                                       104                                                          100           105                    110

                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINA
                     CHINA
                                                                                                                                                         LAO
                                                                                                                                  MYANMAR                PEOPLE'S            Gulf               20
                                                                                                                                                      DEM. REP.                 of
                                                                                                                                                  Vientiane                 Tonkin

22                                                                                                         22
                                          1A

                                                                                                                                                   THAILAND
                                             19 Phongsaly                              VIETNAM                       15
                                                                                                                      Andaman                                                                   15
                                                PHONGSALY                                                                                                                           VIETNAM
                                             1B
MYANMAR                                                                                                                      Sea                             CAMBODIA
                                                            2E
                      17                                                                                                                                                                          21
                        Luang
                      Namtha                                                                                                                         Gulf
                                                                                                                     10
                       LUANG         Muang                                                                                                            of
             BOKEO    NAMTHA            Sai                                              Sam
                                                13N                                                                                                Thailand
   Mekong                                                                               Neua
                   3
              Ban                 OUDOMSAI                                                                                                 100                 105                    110
                                                                                                   6
              Huaisai             2W                                   1C
      Chiang                                              LUANG
         Kong                                            PRABANG                          HOUAPHAN                                                106              This map was produced by
20                       Pak Beng                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                      Mekong                                                                                                                        World Bank. The boundaries,
                                          4B        Luang                                                                                                           colors, denominations and
                     SAYABOURY                      Prabang         XIANG                                                                                           any other information shown
                                                                   KHOANG                                                                                           on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                    the part of The World Bank
                                   4A                                        7
                                                                   Xiang                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the
                            Sayaboury                                                                                                                               legal status of any territory,
                                                                 Khoang                                                                                             or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                    a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
                                                     13N                                                                                                            boundaries.
  THAILAND                                  Vang Vieng                    5
                                            VIENTIANE              Xisomboun
                                                                 XAISOMBOUN            1D                                                                              GULF
                                  4
                                                Pone                                      BOLIKHAMSAI
                                Mekong                                           Paksane
                                                Hong           Nam Ngum                                                                                                   OF
                                                                 Reservoir               Namkading
                                                             10

                                             11                                          Mekong13S        8                                                         TONKIN
18                        Sanakham                                    Thanaleng                                                                                                                18
                                            VIENTIANE            A12                                   Ban
                                                                    PREFECTURE OF                    Nongsu   1E

                     Kenethao                                       VIENTIANE                             KHAMMOUANE
                                                                                                          Thakhek               12




                                                                                                                                         1F

               LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                          9A
                                                                                                     Keng
                       RICE PRODUCTIVITY                                                            Kabao     Seno              9

                                                                                                           9B
                  IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                         Savannakhet     Ban               SAVANNAKHET
                                                                                                                Laksamsipha


                                                                                                                                                     1G
                                                                                                                                                               15
16                                                                                                                                                                                             16
                     SUPPORT TO RRSMCs* AND FARMER GROUPS                       AIRPORTS
                                                                                                                                          SARAVANE
                     SUPPORT TO RRSMCs*                                         SELECTED TOWNS                                                               Saravane
                                                                                                                                                      15

                                                                                PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
                     PRINCIPAL HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                   1H    Sekong
                                                                                NATIONAL CAPITALS
                     HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                       20                   SEKONG
                                                                                                                                                          16
                                                                                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                     OTHER ROADS                                                                                                 16                         16B
                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES           Champassak                                     1I
                     BORDER CROSSINGS                                                                                                               CHAMPASSAK
                                                                                                                                                                    Attapeu

                     *Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Center.                                                                                                               18B
                                                                                                                                                          18A    ATTAPEU

                                                                                                                                           Mekong13S              1J

             0     50      100       150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                 Khong

14          0    25       50       75      100 Miles                                                                                                                                           14
                                                                                                        CAMBODIA
                                             102                                       104                                                       106

                                                                                                                                                                                      OCTOBER 2008

