                   Document of
                The World Bank


                                                 Report No:   66031 v1


             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                     ON A

        PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                      OF
LAO PDR: RICE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT

                GRANT TF93614

         BOARD DATE: JANUARY 13, 2009


                    TO THE

       LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                December 10, 2011
       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




Regional Vice President:       James W. Adams
      Country Director:        Annette Dixon
         Sector Leader:        Julia Fraser, Acting
     Task Team Leader:         Paavo Eliste



                           2
        LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC — RICE PRODUCTIVITY
                        IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                               P114617
                              TF093614

                                  Restructuring Paper


  SUMMARY

The proposed changes would include extension of the extension of the Grant Closing
Date from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012 and a minor amendment in the wording
of the definition of incremental operating cost in the Grant Agreement.


PROJECT STATUS
The project was approved on January 13, 2009 and was processed under the Global Food
Crisis Response Program in the amount of US$3 million. The PDO is to increase rice
productivity and overall volume of rice production among smallholders in selected
provinces, thereby increasing incomes and improving food security for small farm
households. After initial implementation difficulties, the current progress towards
achievement of PDO and implementation progress are being upgraded to Marginally
Satisfactory following the implementation support mission held in November 2011. The
project has produced significant amounts of seed, and the use of good seed has
contributed significantly to increasing rice yields and the total production volume of rice.
The availability of improved seed is helping farmers increase rice productivity and the
overall volume of production. The project objectives remain relevant and achievable.



PROPOSED CHANGES
1. Extension of the Grant Closing Date. It is proposed that the Grant Closing Date be
extended from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012. The extension is necessary to allow
the project to (a) complete the delivery of farm and seed processing equipment under
Component 1: Support to Rice Seed Multiplication Stations; and (b) use the estimated
savings of $302,590 to expand project activities to rural households who were affected by
floods caused by two typhoons under Component 2: Support to Farmer Seed Groups and
On-Farm Demonstrations in the project provinces of Khammouane, Savannaketh and
Champasack. These activities will enhance achievement of the PDO by increasing the
number of beneficiaries.

2. Amendment to the definition of “Incremental Operating Costs?. The following
amendment to the definition of the “Incremental Operating Costs? in the Appendix of the


                                             3
Grant Agreement in order to allow processing of the seed by seed stations produced by
seed producer groups:

"Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable expenditures directly related to the
Project, incurred by the Recipient (which expenditures would not have been incurred
absent the activities), including consumable materials and supplies, communications,
mass media and printing services, vehicle rental, operation and maintenance, charges for
the opening and operation of bank accounts required for the Project, postage and
handling, travel, lodging and per diems, reasonable seed processing and transport cost,
but excluding salaries of officials of the recipient's civil service. This amendment is
needed to be able to cover incremental costs associated with the processing of R3 seed in
seed stations which will be purchased from seed producer costs under Part 2 of the
Project to be distributed free of charge to flood affected farmers and farmer groups under
Part 2.?

The proposed changes have no impact on the Project Development Objective, results/
indicators, scope of project components, project institutional arrangements, safeguards,
disbursement and fiduciary arrangements. The Borrower has prepared an action plan
satisfactory to the Bank to complete the project.

It is proposed that the changes will take effect on date of countersignature of the Letter
Agreement.

This will be the first extension of the project.




                                               4
