                                    Document of
                                the World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR2579



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-93614)



                                  ON A GRANT

          UNDER THE GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS RESPONSE PROGRAM

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$3.0 MILLION


                                     TO THE

                   LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC

                                     FOR A

                RICE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT




                                December 21, 2012




Southeast Asia Sustainable Development Department
Southeast Asia Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Appraisal Exchange Rate Effective September 20, 2008)
                    Currency Unit = Lao Kip
                        Kip 8850 = US$1

         (Closing Date Exchange Rate Effective July 01, 2012)
                   Currency Unit = Lao Kip
                        Kip 7986 = US$1



                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACIAR     Australian Center for International Agricultural Research
ADB       Asian Development Bank
ADP       Agriculture Development Project
AFD       Agence Française de Développement
AusAID    Australian Agency for International Development
CIAT      Centro Internacional de Agricultura Tropical (Colombia)
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DAFO      District Agriculture and Forestry Office
DS        Dry Season
EIRR      Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EPP       Emergency Project Paper
EU        European Union
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FIRR      Financial Internal Rate of Return
FM        Financial Management
FPCR      Food Crisis Response Program Trust Fund
GFRP      Global Food Crisis Response Program
GM        Gross Margin
GOL       Government of Lao PDR
Ha        Hectare
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICY       Improving Crop Yields Project (ACIAR supported)
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFR       Interim Financial Report
INGO      International Non-government Organization
IRRI      International Rice Research Institute
KDP       Khammouane Development Project (H4040, H7560)
LUFSIP    Lao Upland Food Security Improvement Project (H5610)
MAF       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MoF       Ministry of Finance
                                    ii
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NAFES      National Agriculture and Forestry Extension Service
NAFReC     Northern Agriculture and Forestry Research and Center
NAFRI      National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-governmental Organization
NGPES      National Growth an Poverty Eradication Strategy
PAFO       Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Office
PDO        Project Development Objective
PrMO       Procurement Monitoring Office
PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RISEP      Rice Seed Multiplication System Improvement Project
RPIP       Rice Productivity Improvement Project
RRSMCs     Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Centers
SDC        Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
SMS        Seed Multiplication Systems
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
VDC        Village Development Committee
WFP        World Food Programme
WS         Wet Season




                    Vice President:         Ms. Pamela Cox
                  Country Director:         Ms. Annette Dixon
                  Country Manager           Ms. Keiko Miwa
                   Sector Manager:          Ms. Julia M. Fraser
         Project Task Team Leader:          Mr. Paavo Eliste
                 ICR Team Leader:           Mr. Chanhsom Manythong




                                      iii
                          LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                   RICE PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 4
   3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................ 10
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ....................................................... 14
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 15
   6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 18
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors............. 19
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ........................................................................ 20
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................ 21
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................... 21
   Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ..... 32
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................... 33
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................. 35
   Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................... 36
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 37
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 42
   MAP (IBRD36573) ..................................................................................................... 42




                                                            iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                             LAO PDR: Rice
                        Lao People's
Country:                                           Project Name:             Productivity
                        Democratic Republic
                                                                             Improvement Project
Project ID:             P114617                    L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-93614
ICR Date:               12/21/2012                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                        Borrower:                 LAO PDR
Original Total
                        USD 3.00M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 3.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 3.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process             Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:                         Effectiveness:                               03/02/2009
Appraisal:                              Restructuring(s):                            12/15/2011
Approval:              01/13/2009       Mid-term Review:
                                        Closing:                  12/31/2011         06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Substantial
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:      Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                   i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                   18                   20
Crops                                                                 62                   60
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry              20                   20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                           100                100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           James W. Adams
Country Director:          Annette Dixon                        Ian C. Porter
Sector Manager:            Julia M. Fraser                      Rahul Raturi
Project Team Leader:       Paavo Eliste                         Richard H. E. Chisholm
ICR Team Leader:           Chanhsom Manythong
ICR Primary Author:        Chanhsom Manythong
                           Jean-Paul Chausse


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main development objective would be to increase rice productivity and overall
volume of rice production among smallholders in four selected provinces, thereby
substantially increasing incomes and improving food security for small farm households.
This would result in a very rapid reduction of seasonal and disaster related shortages of
rice in the project areas, as well as reducing the impacts of rising food prices and
population increases in the longer term.



                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval         Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in yield (25%) of surplus rice (over consumption needs)
                  2,500 kg/ha in wet season                                     3,900 kg/ha in wet
                  and 3,500 kg / ha in dry                                      season and 4,400
                                             3,125 kg/ha in wet
Value             season                                                        kg/ha in dry season
                                             season and 4,375
quantitative or
                                             kg/ha in dry
Qualitative)      27 improved varieties                                         19 improved
                                             season
                  18 local varieties                                            varieties
                  produced                                                      12 local varieties
Date achieved     04/30/2010                 03/02/2009                         05/31/2012
                  Achieved. Average yield increase was 56% for WS and 26% for DS. Reduction
Comments
                  of number of varieties used by farmers is a good sign of sector development,
(incl. %
                  indicates increasing commercialization of rice and harmonization of quality of
achievement)
                  paddy for milling
                  Increase in value of surplus rice produced (10%) by participating farmer groups
Indicator 2 :
                  compared to baseline
                                                                                Total paddy
                                                                                production per
                  Total paddy production
                                                                                household 6,600
                  per household 4,750 kg.
                                                                                kg. Total
                  Total production of rice
                                                                                production of rice
                  after losses and seed use
                                                                                after losses and
Value             2,489 kg;                  10% increase
                                                                                seed use 3,482 kg.
quantitative or   Household rice             equals to Kip 5.2
                                                                                Household rice
Qualitative)      consumption 1,200          million
                                                                                consumption 1,200
                  kg/year. Surplus rice
                                                                                kg/year.
                  1,289 kg. Value of
                                                                                Surplus rice 2,282
                  surplus rice Kip 4.7
                                                                                kg. Value of
                  million.
                                                                                surplus rice Kip 6.7
                                                                                million.
Date achieved     04/30/2010                 03/02/2009                         05/31/2012
                  Achieved. Average value of surplus rice (in paddy equivalent) increased 43%
Comments
                  compared to target of 10%. Value of household paddy production increased by
(incl. %
                  39% and household surplus rice increased by 77% over average household
achievement)
                  consumption of 1,200kg/year
                  Decrease in number of months of rice shortage in participating
Indicator 3 :
                  households compared to baseline
Value
                2 months – 11% of the                                           1 month – 3% of
quantitative or
                farmers                                                         the farmers
Qualitative)


                                                 iii
Date achieved 04/30/2010                                                  05/31/2012
              Achieved. Usefulness of this indicator was diminished by the absence of target
Comments
              value. However, the benchmarking surveys show a significant decline both in
(incl. %
              number of months and percentage of households on rice shortage which indicate
achievement)
              satisfactory outcome

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
                Production of an incremental annual volume of quality seed
Indicator 1 :   (R1 foundation and R2 registered seed)
                of at least 140 tons from all participating centers
                                                                                 R1 – 82 tons and
                R1 – 4.6 tons and R2 –
                                                                                 R2 –2,608 tons
Value           134 tons
                                            140 tons of R1 and
(quantitative
                                            R2 seed                            19 improved
or Qualitative) 20 varieties of rice seed
                                                                               varieties
                produced
                                                                               12 local varieties
Date achieved 04/30/2010                    03/02/2009                         05/31/2012
Comments        Achieved. Stations and centers produced 2,690 tons of R1 and R2 seed over
(incl. %        project period. In average, annual seed production was 896 tons compared to 150
achievement) tons before the project 746 tons (about 500%) increased
                Both upland and lowland glutinous and non glutinous varieties available from
Indicator 2 : seed centers and at least three varieties of seed from another center available at
                any one center
                                                                               19 improved
                27 improved varieties
                                                                               varieties
                18 local varieties
Value                                                                          12 local varieties
                produced
(quantitative
or Qualitative)                                                                1 variety exchange
                No exchange of seed
                                                                               between stations –
                between the centres
                                                                               Napok to Thasano
Date achieved 04/30/2010                                                       05/31/2012
                Target and purpose of the number of varieties produced by stations were unclear,
Comments
                but trend indicates positive development of rice sector. Participating stations and
(incl. %
                centers produced only lowland varieties since RPIP operated only in lowland
achievement)
                provinces
                Farmer leaders able to coordinate own groups as a result of on station (at least 2
Indicator 3 : training days per annum) and in-field training (2 days per month per village)
                provided
                                                                               Project provided on
                                                                               average 6 days of
Value           No training provided per
                                                                               training per annum
(quantitative   annum and no in-field
                                                                               for each group (178
or Qualitative) training provided.
                                                                               groups) member, all
                                                                               in the field.


                                                iv
Date achieved 04/30/2010                                                       05/31/2012
Comments
                It is not possible to measure "coordination" by group leaders. All group members
(incl. %
                were exposed to the same training. Inappropriate indicator
achievement)
                At least 75% of all seed produced is sold or transferred under the project to seed
Indicator 4 :
                producers rather than being sold as paddy
                                                                               4,417 tons of seed
                                                                               used by households;
                                                                               1,651 tons was sold
                                                                               or exchanged with
Value           No seed sold or             75% of all seed
                                                                               other households;
(quantitative   transferred under the       produced is sold or
                                                                               1,692 tons sold as
or Qualitative) project                     transferred
                                                                               paddy and 1,074
                                                                               tons were own used
                                                                               and preserved by
                                                                               farmer groups
Date achieved 04/30/2010                    03/02/2009                         05/31/2012
                Partially achieved. The target was unrealistic in the absence of functional seed
Comments
                markets. According to NAFRI data, 57% of seed produced under project was
(incl. %
                used by households themselves; 18% was sold or exchanged with other
achievement)
                households; 19% sold as paddy
                Number of farmer groups adopting and maintaining use of all or part of project
Indicator 5 :
                input packages is at least 25% of all groups formed
                                            25% of farmers                     60 out of 178
                                            groups (45 out of                  groups will
Value           No groups maintaining
                                            178) adoption and                  continue to be
(quantitative   use of all or part of
                                            maintaining                        supported by the
or Qualitative) project input packages
                                            project input                      Government seed
                                            packages                           stock program
Date achieved 04/30/2010                    03/02/2009                         05/31/2012
Comments        Achieved. At least 34% of farmers use of all or part of project input packages
(incl. %        based on the number of groups who will continue to produce seed under
achievement) Government seed program. The actual value may be larger
                Proportion of rice production sold/traded as seed rather than used for
Indicator 6 :
                consumption reaches 30%
Value                                                                          25% of total rice
                No rice production          30% sold/traded as
(quantitative                                                                  seed produced is
                sold/traded as seed         seed
or Qualitative)                                                                used as seed
Date achieved 04/30/2010                    03/02/2009                         05/31/2012
Comments
                Partially achieved. The target was too ambitions given the lack of functioning
(incl. %
                seed markets in Laos
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Incomes of participating farmers in groups increase by at least 20%
                Returns to family labor                                        Returns to family
                for WS rice                                                    labor for WS rice
Value
                Kip26,591/day               Incomes increase                   Kip 36,518/day
(quantitative
                                            by at least 20%
or Qualitative)
                Returns to family labor                                        Returns to family
                for DS rice                                                    labor for DS rice


                                                v
                Kip36,039/day                                                   Kip 46,381/day
Date achieved 04/30/2010                    03/02/2009                          05/31/2012
Comments
                Achieved. Return to family labor is used as proxy for income. Returns to labor
(incl. %
                increased 37% for WS paddy production and 29% for DS paddy production.
achievement)
                Number of months of rice food insecurity in participating households declines by
Indicator 8 :
                an average 80% by project end
Value
                2 months – 11% of the                                           1 month – 3% of
(quantitative                               80% decline
                farmers                                                         the farmers
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2010                    03/02/2009                          05/31/2012
                Achieved in spirit. The target was not based on actual food security baseline
Comments
                data. However, the number of months of rice insecurity declined 50% (from 2
(incl. %
                months to 1) and percentage of rice food insecurity household declined 73%,
achievement)
                indicate a good result
                Project management team established in NAFRI using own systems and
Indicator 9 : operating with staff experienced in World Bank procurement and safeguards
                methodologies
                                                                                Total of 9 persons
Value                                                                           active including
(quantitative   Project team active                                             management, FM,
or Qualitative)                                                                 procurement, M&E
                                                                                and actuarial staff
Date achieved 04/30/2010                                                        05/31/2012
Comments
                Achieved. No specific qualitative or quantitative baseline values or targets were
(incl. %
                established for this indicator. Project management team was fully functioning
achievement)
                Baseline survey, group formation methodology and monitoring surveys in
Indicator 10 :
                proposed demonstration areas completed on time
Value
                                                                                Baseline survey
(quantitative
                                                                                completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   05/31/2012
                No baseline values or targets were established for this indicator. Baseline survey
Comments
                was completed with slight delay but benchmarking surveys were carried out on-
(incl. %
                time. Quality of the baseline and benchmarking surveys was good and provided
achievement)
                adequate data
                Improvement in output and productivity in target areas quantified in terms of
Indicator 11 :
                both quality and quantity through timely data analysis
                                                                                Regular system of
Value
                                                                                field and office
(quantitative
                                                                                reports as a result of
or Qualitative)
                                                                                M&E
Date achieved                                                                   05/31/2012
                No specific qualitative or quantitative baseline values or targets were established
Comments
                for this indicator. However, baseline and benchmarking surveys quantified well
(incl. %
                the improvement of output and productivity in target areas through timely data
achievement)
                analysis



                                                 vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1    08/04/2009   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.15
                         Moderately              Moderately
  2    06/29/2010                                                               0.29
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
  3    03/15/2011                                                               0.67
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately              Moderately
  4    07/21/2011                                                               0.88
                       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  5    12/22/2011   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             1.47


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The Grant Closing Date was
                                                     extended at Government request
                                                     from December 31, 2011 to
                                                     June 30, 2012 to (a) complete
                                                     the delivery of farm and seed
                                                     processing equipment under
                                                     Component 1: Support to Rice
                                                     Seed Multiplication Stations;
 12/15/2011       N       MU    MU            1.30
                                                     and (b) uncommitted fund of
                                                     $302,590 to provide emergency
                                                     assistance to 4,000 households
                                                     affected by Typhoons Haima
                                                     (July 2011) and Noktent
                                                     (August 2011) in Khammouane,
                                                     Sanvannakhet and Champasak
                                                     Provinces.




                                          vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 2008, rural poverty in Lao PDR was high as two-thirds of the rural population, or 71%
of the country’s total, was considered as having a weak livelihood base, putting them at
risk of facing one or more shocks per year. In addition, chronic malnutrition was severe
and every second child in rural areas was chronically malnourished. This situation
changed little despite the country’s rapid economic growth over the last decade.
Although average rice yields improved from 3.1 tons/ha in 2001 to 3.5 tons/ha in 2007,
productivity growth rates in Lao PDR lagged behind rates of productivity growth of
neighboring countries like Vietnam and Cambodia. The average annual paddy production
growth rate was about 2.2% over 2001-2007, which was below the population growth
rate of 2.5% per annum.

By appraisal in September 2008, Lao PDR was facing serious food security challenges,
with parts of the population experiencing the compounded effects of surges in food and
agricultural input prices and a record flood earlier in 2008 which caused significant losses
in paddy production. Only about one-third of the Lao population was considered fully
food secure in terms of 12 month rice availability. Food insecurity among the uplands
population was particularly problematic with rice shortages for at least three to four
months each year, especially in the mid-to late wet season. The food price index, which
normally varied by only 6 to 8% annually, rose by around 40% starting November 2007
and was a severe blow to rural households already on a precarious footing.

The Government of Lao PDR (GOL) recognized the growing problem of food insecurity,
income disparities and seasonal shortages of food, particularly in its 47 poorest districts,
and set food production and food security as high priority agricultural goals. GOL’s
strategy focused on four measures: (i) improved availability and quality of seed varieties;
(ii) establishment of village development groups to promote development at grassroots
level; (iii) establishment of production groups in pilot areas to promote production,
processing and marketing activities; and (iv) increased agricultural productivity through
new technology (fertilizers, compost, quality seed and advanced breeding). In particular
the strategy called for increased capacity of seed multiplication centers and extension
service delivery to farmers. However, GOL lacked the resources to implement this
strategy effectively, but recognized the need to respond urgently given the burgeoning
food crisis. This was the basis for GOL’s request to IDA for the Rice Productivity
Improvement Project (RPIP).

Rationale for IDA involvement. The RPIP was fully in line with the 2005 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) (2005-08) which had been designed to support GOL’s
National Growth and Poverty Eradication Strategy (NGPES) and, within this framework,
to support key drivers of future growth, better targeting of social outcomes and a
reduction in the population’s vulnerability through strengthened service delivery
capacities and targeted poverty reduction programs. In the agricultural sector, IDA
assistance focused on strengthening institutional capacity to support a diversified and


                                             1
modernized agricultural sector; promoting sustained and equitable rural growth; and
improving the ability of farmers and rural communities to respond to improved market
opportunities. The RPIP complemented other projects in IDA’s portfolio, which focused
on food security and poverty alleviation, as well as projects financed by other donors.

Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP). Laos had been clearly impacted by the
rising food prices and severe flooding, and as such, the project fell within the mandate of
the GFRP established in May 2008. The project did not focus on the immediate
emergency response of the 2008 floods (distribution of food, seeds and/or fertilizer),
which was left to other donors better equipped for such emergency response. Rather, the
RPIP focused on addressing constraints related to: (a) improving seed availability to
farmers to increase domestic rice production and productivity; (b) improving food access
for the poor; (c) raising the incomes of (predominantly poor) rice producers; and (d)
improving the country’s ability to manage grain price volatility and to cushion future
domestic supply shocks.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PDO was to increase rice productivity and overall volume of rice production among
smallholders in selected provinces, thereby increasing incomes and improving food
security for small farm households. This would result in reducing the seasonal and
disaster-related shortages of rice in the short run, as well as reducing the impacts of rising
food prices.

The key Outcome Indicators were: (i) increase in yield (25%) of surplus rice (over
consumption needs); (ii) increase in value of surplus rice produced (10%) by participating
farmer groups compared to baseline; and (iii) decrease in number of months of rice
shortage in participating households compared to baseline.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification.

The PDO and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Original. The project’s direct beneficiaries were to be the members of about 200 seed
multiplication groups of about 20 farmers each (in the same number of villages), or about
4,000 households, in 20 districts of four participating provinces: Khammouane,
Savannakhet, Champassak and Saravan. Participating households would benefit from
increased production and incomes, and improved food security. Other direct beneficiaries
included the State Research and Seed Multiplication Centers (Naphok Central Seed
Station in Vientiane; Provincial Agricultural Training Center of Khammouane Province;
Thasano Seed Station of Savannakhet Province; Nongdaeng Crop and Livestock
Research Center of Salavan Province; and Phonengam Agriculture and Forestry Research




                                              2
Center of Champassak Province) which received equipment and operating capital to
improve their capacity to produce and condition seeds of improved rice varieties.

Indirect but significant beneficiaries would be other farmers in the project villages who,
although not participating in seed multiplication activities, would gain access to
improved seeds produced by the groups by trading their own paddy production against
improved seeds. The EPP estimated that potentially more than 200,000 households could
benefit from the improved seed produced as a result of the project.

Revised. The project provided emergency assistance to 4,000 households who were
affected by Typhoons Haima (July 2011) and Nock-ten (August 2011), that caused
significant damage in Khammouane, Savannakhet and Champasak.

1.5 Original Components

The project comprised three components:

Component 1: Support to Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Centers (base cost
$1.32 million, 44% of the project cost). This component aimed to support production
of larger quantities of high quality rice seed varieties – breeder seed (BS), foundation
seed (R1) and registered seed (R2) -- appropriate for different conditions in Government
Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Centers (RRSMCs) for later multiplication as
certified seed (R3) by farmer groups under Component 2. The project provided critical
equipment and infrastructure for seed production and conditioning, including drying,
grading, packaging, cool storage, as well as small training facilities and transportation at
the beneficiary government research centers and seed multiplication stations.

Component 2: Support to Farmer Seed Groups and On-Farm Demonstrations (base
cost $1.09 million, 36.3% of the project cost). The component established and
supported a system of seed multiplication by small farmers’ groups (up to 200 farmer
groups of about 20 farmers each in about 70 Khum Bahns in the four participating
provinces). The system was based on the use of modern, high-yielding technical packages
as the basis for broader dissemination of seed multiplication technology and scale-up of
improved seed use. The project aimed to support farmer groups over six crop cycles
(three years), with each group receiving support for two consecutive cycles. Technical
support and monitoring were to be provided by participating Seed Multiplication Stations
and Provincial and District Agricultural and Forestry Offices (PAFOs and DAFOs), with
the assistance of Junior Consultants (recent agriculture college graduates) specifically
recruited and trained for this purpose by the project.

Component 3: Management Monitoring and Evaluation (base cost US$0.59 million,
19.6 % of the project cost). The component supported overall project management and
coordination, and establishment and implementation of a detailed monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system. Capacity building was to include training of agricultural
college students to prepare them for a future role as agriculture technicians.

1.6 Revised Components (restructuring) N/A


                                             3
1.7 Other significant changes

In the aftermath of typhoons Haima and Nock-ten, GOL requested a restructuring to (i)
extend its closing date by six months until June 30, 2012, to complete ongoing delivery
of farm and seed processing equipment; and (ii) use the uncommitted Grant amount of
US$302,590 to purchase 240 tons of improved rice seed varieties from project seed
multiplication groups for distribution to about 4,000 typhoon-affected households to
restore their rice production in the following crop season. The request was approved on
December 15, 2011 and the Grant Agreement amended accordingly.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of background analysis. As noted in Section 1.1 above, the RPIP was prepared
as an emergency project through the newly created GFRP. Therefore, there was no time
to carry out sector analytical work. The Bank team processed the entire operation in
roughly six months (August 2008 to January 2009). The main principles of the design
were based on the experiences and lessons of other donor-funded projects in Laos such as
the Rice Seed Multiplication and Distribution System Improvement Project (RICEP)
funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the Increasing Crop
Yields Project funded by Australian bi-lateral aid (Aus-AID). The design was also
informed by analytical work on the impact of improved seed use on paddy rice yield by
the World Food Programme (WFP), as well as research and demonstrations on rice seed
use and production systems done by the Australian Center for International Agricultural
Research (ACIAR) and the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI). All these
projects and analytical work provided evidence of the significant impact of improved
seed and fertilizer inputs on rice productivity.

Assessment of the project design. Overall, the project design was generally consistent
with internationally and regionally recognized principles of farmer group-based seed
multiplication systems, and it aimed at combining efficiency in food production by
focusing on the major rice production provinces in the Mekong plains, which had the
greatest capacity to respond quickly to the food crisis, while retaining a poverty reduction
focus through targeting more remote districts, ethnic minorities and less commercialized
farmer groups. The criteria used for the selection of participating villages rightly included
the level of poverty and labor requirements. Implementation arrangements were in line
with the national institutional framework, with overall coordination responsibility given
to the National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI), which had a
mandate for seed production and was also responsible for the implementation of GOL’s
rice production program. The day-to-day implementation of field activities was the
responsibility of the provincial Seed Multiplication Stations (SMS) in close collaboration
with PAFOs and DAFOs.

However, the design also had some shortcomings. First, there was a lack of recognition
of the weaknesses in the institutional and policy environment of the seed sector, which



                                             4
affected the capacity of SMS as much as lack of equipment and years of under
investments. In this regard, while the investment in SMSs under Component 1 were
generally well justified, there should have been a better balance between Component 1
and 2, with more weight given to latter. Under Component 1 priority should have been
given to management and technical capacity building of seed stations, development of
seed distribution systems to reach end clients, and production of R1 and R2 by providing
sufficient operational funds.

Secondly, the design assumed that (i) farmer groups established under the project would
become reasonably efficient producers of good quality seeds after receiving project
assistance for only two cropping cycles; and (ii) these groups would be able to sell a
significant share of their seeds to the local market at prices higher than paddy. These
proved to be unrealistic assumptions. While limiting support for two crop cycles aimed to
reach a larger number of farmers, thus broadening the project impact, evidence from
implementation showed that even experienced farmers required significantly longer
support to be able to produce quality seed. Also, very few non-project farmers were
willing to buy improved seeds at prices higher than paddy, and farmers found it difficult
to market their seeds more widely in the absence of seed distribution systems.

PDO and Indicators. The PDO was straight-forward, although it was not entirely clear
whether the focus of the project was on short-term emergency response measures or the
longer-term objective of a sustained supply response to the demand for improved seeds. It
was therefore assumed for the purpose of this analysis that the primary focus of the PDO
was to address the constraints for longer-term seed supply response. The outcome
indicators indicate that the expected project outcomes applied directly to smallholders
participating in seed multiplication activities, rather than the broader spectrum of farmers
in project provinces. Furthermore, purpose and formulation of some PDO outcome
indicators could have been clearer and more monitorable. As an example, the selected
indicator “Increase in yield (25%) of surplus rice (over household consumption needs)?,
mixed production and consumption data, making its measurement challenging.

The Intermediate Results for each component were generally clear and well-targeted to
the components’ overall objectives. However, it was unclear how project performance
against the main result indicator for Component 1 -- “An increase in the capacity of the
participating research centers and seed multiplication stations to sustainably produce
larger quantities of high quality seed (breeder, foundation and registered seed according
to demand? as measured by “an increase of around 140 tons in the volume of production
of R1 foundation and R2 registered seeds from all of participating centers? -- was to be
assessed. Indeed, centers’ capacity to produce good quality seeds depended on both
supply and demand factors, so the “incremental production potential? linked to the
project’s specific support was not easy to measure.

The main intermediate result of Component 2 appears to have been unrealistic. Indeed,
although demonstrating the benefits of using improved seeds to farmers was a reasonable
objective, the “establishment of a (sustainable) system of seed multiplication by small
farmers’ groups that would start the process of creating a sustained demand for high



                                             5
quality seed and other inputs? was overly ambitious for an emergency operation with a
relatively short (three year) implementation period. The overall PDO itself (increase rice
productivity and overall volume of rice production among smallholders in selected
provinces, thereby increasing incomes and improving food security for small farm
households?) was achievable during the project period. However, the sustainability of
maintaining improved yield levels cannot be measured so soon after project closing as
farmers will have to renew seeds only every three to four years.

Adequacy of GOL commitment. The project was in line with GOL’s poverty reduction,
food security and agricultural strategies. It specifically addressed two central measures of
GOL agricultural development policy: (i) improving producers’ access to quality rice
seed of improved rice varieties; and (ii) establishing village-level seed production groups
in pilot areas which were expected to serve as demonstrations and eventually increase
demand at grassroots level. GOL was fully committed to its objectives and
implementation.

Assessment of risks. The Emergency Project Paper (EPP) assessed the overall risk level
as “moderate?, and identified four specific risks: (i) delays in procurement (“moderate?);
(ii) weak technical support at field level (“moderate?); (iii) misuse of inputs by farmer
groups (“moderate?); and (iv) fiduciary risk (“substantial?). The primary risk was
NAFRI’s weak financial management (FM) and procurement capacity. The Bank’s FM
capacity assessment found that, although NAFRI was operating in a high risk
environment, it had experience in managing several donor-funded projects. Because
fiduciary risk was assessed as “substantial?, several risk mitigation measures were
incorporated into the project’s design, albeit there were still implementation delays at
start-up as discussed in Section 2.4.

The risk that was not identified in the EPP was the effect of the overall rice policy
environment which affects farmer incentives and welfare, such as ad hoc export bans and
price controls, as well as years of under-investments in supplementary public goods and
services in general (roads and irrigation infrastructure, extension). (These issues are now
being discussed under the preparation of GOL’s new rice sector strategy.) Addressing
such policy risk was clearly beyond the scope of an emergency operation, but the risk
should have been recognized and project design should have been adjusted accordingly.
Finally, the EPP did not identify risks due to adverse climatic events even though it
correctly recognized them as recurring events.

Overall, considering the shortcomings in design and the risk assessment, the project’s
Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU).

2.2 Implementation

Overall, project implementation was satisfactory, driven largely by the leadership of
NAFRI and the commitment of the technical staff at provincial and district levels. There
were, however, several issues that limited the effectiveness of project implementation
outcomes.



                                             6
Weak procurement capacity. Serious and recurrent problems with the management of
procurement activities arose which were largely related to the low quality of bidding
documents. The recruitment of an international procurement consultant as required under
the Grant Agreement to strengthen NAFRI’s implementation capacity in this respect was
a condition for disbursement for civil works and goods. Although the Grant Agreement
became effective on March 3, 2009, this recruitment was completed 14 months later. The
procurement process for the civil works and equipment for improving participating Seed
Centers’ capacity to produce good quality R1 and R2 seeds was initiated only at project
mid-point. It was then plagued further by various processing difficulties, and as a result,
was not fully completed by the initial Grant closing date of December 31, 2011,
necessitating a six month extension. In the end, the late delivery was not a serious
constraint, as this equipment was found not to be as binding a constraint to seed
production as assumed at appraisal.

Typhoons in 2011. As mentioned above, two devastating typhoons hit three of the four
project provinces in the summer of 2011. Overall, 564,000 households were severely
affected by the flooding and nearly 75,000 ha of rice fields were destroyed. GOL
requested that the project balance of $302,590 be used to distribute free project-produced
seeds to about 4,000 households in project’s districts to restore their rice production the
following crop season. This was agreed during the December 2011 restructuring.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design. The EPP included a detailed description of the M&E system to be
established to collect and analyze progress against the PDO and the components’
intermediate results. The system design and its specific indicators were fair. Indicators
were generally pertinent to assess: (i) the impact of the project on the capacity and
efficiency of participating stations in producing R1 and R2 seeds and providing technical
support (training) to farmer groups in R3 multiplication (Component 1); (ii) the impact of
good seed use on rice productivity, farmers’ incomes and food security (Component 2);
and (iii) overall quality of project implementation (Component 3). However, some
indicators should have been formulated more clearly as discussed in section 2.1 above,
and there was duplication of information between some indicators. Still, the indicators
were appropriately focused on the efficiency of the delivery of inputs (R1 and R2) and
outputs (R3), given the short implementation period.

M&E implementation and utilization. The detailed M&E design and implementation
were contracted to an international non-governmental organization (INGO), which had
appropriate capacity to do this under a short timeline. This arrangement resulted in a
satisfactory outcome. Considerable preparation work was carried out in preparation of the
baseline survey (guidelines for and training of field enumerators) and a total of six
surveys were completed providing detailed coverage of project activities during a two
year period: the baseline survey, a final impact survey and four benchmarking surveys
covering four intervening crop cycles (from the wet season 2010 to dry season 2011/12).
The surveys were of good quality and provided data to adequately monitor the project



                                            7
progress. However, the baseline survey was carried out late - more than a year after
effectiveness, so the true situation at appraisal in 2008 is not known.

2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguards. The project was correctly classified as category C as it did
not finance any agrochemicals beyond limited amounts of fertilizer. Seed and fertilizer
packages distributed to farmer multiplication groups would be accompanied by the
necessary instructions on proper uses. Simple Environmental Guidelines were prepared
and included in the Project Operational Manual. The project also provided on-the-job
training and related extension materials on seed and fertilizer use.

Social Safeguards. The project’s social impact was expected to be positive. The EPP paid
specific attention to social issues both for the selection of target districts and for ensuring
the participation of ethnic minorities. Participating districts and villages were selected
through criteria, which took into account poverty levels. The EPP correctly identified that
the Indigenous People Policy (OP/BP 4.10) would be triggered under Component 2 and
the Grant Agreement required that an Ethnic Minority Participation Framework (EMPF)
be adopted not later than one month after effectiveness to ensure the effective
participation of minority ethnic farmers in the seed multiplication activities and benefits.
Although the EMPF was finalized with some delay (June 30, 2010), project management
and the Bank team paid specific attention to this issue well before its final approval: out
of a total of 4,616 farmer households participating in the 178 rice seed production groups,
1,379 (30%) farmers come from ethnic minority groups. Participation by ethnic farmers
in the rice seed production groups varied from 40.5% in Khammoune to 7.3% in
Champasack, which is consistent with the share of these groups from provincial
populations. No major concerns were raised by ethnic farmers during project
implementation. The project technologies to improve rice productivity were generally
appropriate for ethnic farmers. All ethnic farmers expressed interest in participating in
RPIP and expressed their satisfaction with benefits received.

Financial Management. The project’s financial management arrangements complied with
the Bank’s requirements per OP/BP 10.02. All annual external audits were unqualified.
The project met eventually all Financial Management covenants of the Grant Agreement,
although there were delays in implementing some measures. A number of FM risks were
identified throughout project implementation. There was also a high turnover of national
FM staff at the beginning of the project, and an international FM consultant was recruited
only in early 2011. This expert was shared with the ongoing Lao Upland Food Security
Improvement Project (LUFSIP, H5610). The computerized accounting system, which
was also procured jointly with LUFSIP, was not operational until mid-2011 and project
accounts and IFRs had to be produced manually, which was prone to errors. Central and
provincial staff training was also late. The FM capacity at provincial and district levels
was very limited and weak backstopping from the central level resulted in poor
accounting documentation, delays in submission of withdrawal applications and
generally sluggish disbursements. FM risk was consistently assessed as substantial until
closing.



                                              8
Procurement. There were no major issues regarding compliance with procurement policy
and guidelines. Most of the procurement of goods, works and services was conducted at
national level on the basis of satisfactory annual procurement plans and standard
procedures. However, there were delays in procurement activities due to NAFRI’s weak
capacity as mentioned above. The EPP identified the need to strengthen NAFRI’s
capacities in procurement. However, there were delays in recruiting the necessary staff
(due to difficulties in mobilizing the necessary expertise on the local market) and this
negatively impacted procurement progress, particularly under Component 1. As in the
case of the international FM expert, it was decided that the procurement specialist would
be shared with LUFSIP. NAFRI’s performance improved gradually thereafter.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

There is no direct follow-up to RPIP which was designed as an emergency response to
the 2008 food crisis. However, some of its seed multiplication activities will be continued
under the LUFSIP and the ongoing Khammouane Development Project (KDP, Grants
H4040 and H7560). In addition, the project had some positive impacts on GOL’s
strategy for the development of the rice and seed sector (with on-going with Bank
assistance).

   The project demonstrated that in addition to lack of equipment, the other constraint
    for Seed Centers to produce quality R1 and R2 seeds was lack of operational funds,
    which forced seed stations to engage essentially in commercial seed production
    activities where seed produced by project farmers was processed by stations and sold
    to development projects and donors. This was encouraged by GOL, which provided
    seed stations only with recurrent funds to cover staff salaries but not for operating
    costs, which were expected to be covered by the stations themselves through their
    seed production activities. It thus highlighted the need for reform of seed production
    systems through a combination of allocation of core public funding for those
    functions which have a clear public goods nature, such as production of breeder and
    R1 seed, and gradual privatization of more commercial functions, such as R2 and R3
    production, and associated development of private seed distribution systems.

   RPIP did manage to link a number of its seed producer groups to markets or follow-
    up activities. Some 10 to 20 project farmer groups were linked to millers who
    purchased R3 seeds for their contract farming operations under the European Union-
    funded Enhancing Milled Rice Production Project. These groups stand a good chance
    to continue their seed production activities on commercial principles. Another 60
    groups (34%) out of those supported by RPIP will continue to participate in GOL’s
    new seed production program for which it has a dedicated budget of 22 billion Kip or
    $2.75 million over 2012-2015 for the production of seed stocks to respond to
    emergency situations. GOL’s decision to allocate its own funding for its seed
    production program was partly driven by evidence of success of RPIP seed
    multiplication activities.




                                            9
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation arrangements

Rating: Satisfactory

The objectives of increasing rice productivity and volume of production were highly
relevant during the 2008 food crisis. Although the food crisis has subsided, the
population of Laos continues to grow, and the country still needs to meet a growing rice
demand, so increasing rice production and productivity remains fully relevant. The
objectives were aligned with the country development and agriculture sector agendas at
the time of preparation and remain so today. GOL’s strategy, as stated in the NGPES,
was and still is, to eradicate poverty, in particular in rural areas through “improving
livelihood and food security through agriculture (crop and livestock activities)?. The
project coverage of priority poverty districts and its criteria for selecting participating
villages and households were also in line with the NGPES. Its focus on improving rice
productivity and production was in line with Government National Strategy for
Agriculture and Food Security and it is still at the core of GOL’s new rice development
strategy (under preparation). Finally, the project helped enhance the country’s capacity to
respond to the effects of adverse climatic events, which is fully consistent with the
mandate of the Bank’s GFRP and remains very relevant to the country’s disaster-prone
main rice producing regions.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Assessment of achievement of the PDO is based on the degree to which the project
achieved its outcome and intermediate results indicators as determined by the project
baseline and benchmarking surveys (see Annex 2 for detail). The achievement of the
PDO can be assessed along the four dimensions included in the PDO formulation.

   Increasing rice productivity among smallholders in selected provinces

Increase in yield (25%) of surplus rice (over consumption needs): Rice yields in the wet
season increased from 2.5 tons/ha in 2009 to 3.9 tons/ha in 2011 and from 3.5/ha to 4.4
t/ha in the dry season. These incremental yields are consistent with total average
incremental yield increases of 1.2 tons/ha over wet and dry seasons as projected at
appraisal. The yield increases are directly attributable to the provision of seed, fertilizer
and training by the project (see tables 1 and 2 and Annex 2 for details). Research by
ACIAR and IRRI from Laos shows that using good seed of improved varietals, ceteris
paribus, would increase rice yields by at least 15-25%. This, when combined with
increased application of fertilizer, which was not widely practiced in the wet season,
coupled with farmer training, led to a 56% increase in wet season yields. Increases in dry
season yields of 26% are mostly attributable to introduction of good seed as farmers
already used fertilizer for dry season paddy. The average rural household surplus of rice,



                                             10
after meeting consumption requirements, increased from 1,289 kg per household before
the project to 2,282 kg per household at closing. As a result, the contribution of the
project to increasing yields and household surpluses is satisfactory.

 Increasing overall volume of rice production among smallholders in selected
provinces

The project established 178 farmer multiplication groups comprising 4,600 families
compared to the original target of 4,000 families. These farmers produced an additional
9,066 tons of R3 equivalent seeds over six cropping cycles. It was estimated that 29% of
the seeds produced during the 2011 wet season were used as seeds (sold, exchanged or
own use) and 71% as paddy (sold or consumed), very close to the target result of “at least
30%?. The M&E system did not provide information about the proportion of the farmers
participating in seed multiplication groups who adopted and are maintaining the use of
all or part of project input packages (target result: “at least 25%?). However, about 60
groups will continue to participate in government rice seed production programs as a
conservative lower bound estimate. As such, at least 34% of seed multiplication groups
maintain the use of all or part of project input packages. Due to lack of data on the
proportion of farmers adopting and maintaining project inputs, achievement of this part
of the PDO is lowered to moderately satisfactory.

   Increasing incomes for small farm households

Increase in value of surplus rice produced (10%) by participating farmer groups: The
value of wet season rice (in paddy equivalent) increased from Kip 4.7 million “without
project? to Kip 6.7 million “with project? or a 45% increase. It should be noted that price
levels of paddy in 2012 were about 20% lower than in 2008. Therefore, the evaluation of
incomes used a gross margin (GM) approach as a proxy. The GM for paddy production
increased from Kip 2.9 million to Kip 4.2 million per hectare for wet season (74%); and
Kip 3.9 million to Kip 5.7 million per hectare (45%) for dry season paddy. The GM for
R3 seed production increased from Kip 2.9 million to Kip 5.6 million per hectare (95%)
for wet season; and from Kip 3.9 million to Kip 7.5 million (90%) for dry season paddy.
The return to family labor for wet season paddy was $3.3/day without project, compared
to prevailing off-farm wage rates of $4.5/day. The without project return to labor for dry
season paddy was $4.5/day. End of project return to labor for wet season paddy
production rose to $4.6/day (37%) and for dry season paddy to $5.8/day (29%). The
return to labor for wet season R3 production was $5.1/day (55%) and $6.3/day for dry
season R3 (40%). As a result the achievement of this part of the PDO is considered to be
satisfactory.

   Improving food security for small farm households

Decrease in number of months of rice shortage in participating households: According to
the project M&E data, 11% of the households participating in seed multiplication groups
were food insecure with, on average, a two month rice shortage per year before the
project. At the end of the project, only 3% households were food insecure and their


                                            11
monthly deficit had dropped to one month. Food security analysis showed that average
production of wet season paddy per household increased from 4,750 kg of paddy under
baseline conditions to 6,600 kg of paddy under at the end of project. The surplus milled
rice increased from 2,489 kg per household to 3,482 kg per household (39% increase).
Using an estimate of 200 kg per capita rice consumption among rural populations, the
annual food consumption requirements of the average rural household with six members
would be about 1,200 kg. The marketable surplus of rice has thus increased from 1,289
kg per household under baseline conditions to 2,282 kg per household at the end of the
project. As a result the achievement of this part of the PDO is considered to be
satisfactory.

Other unintended outcomes and impacts. At GOL’s request, the project was
restructured to contribute to the emergency response to damage caused by Haima and
Nock-ten Typhoons (July and August, 2011) in three project provinces (Khammouane,
Savannakhet and Champasak). A total of 420 tons of high quality R3 seed were procured
from project farmers and distributed to 4,000 affected families to permit the planting of
4,000 ha of rice during the 2012 wet season, thus creating a market for R3 seed while
addressing emergency recovery needs.

The project results may have indirectly influenced GOL’s decision to dedicate a budget
of 22 billion Kip (US$2.75 million equivalent) over 2012-2015 for a seed production
program. This is the first time GOL has allocated such a substantial amount for targeted
seed production activities.

The actual impact of the project was wider than just the direct beneficiaries -- farmers
participating in seed multiplication groups. Many non-participating farmers living in the
project villages exchanged paddy against the seeds produced by participating farmers on
one-to-one basis, to test the new varieties. According to data from NAFRI, about 572
tons of seed were exchanged against paddy over the project life. Assuming a seeding rate
of 100 kg/ha (20% more than project farmers), this would yield about 5,100 ha of sown
area under good seed and about 4,300 hectares harvested after crop losses. Assuming
conservatively a 15% incremental yield increase as a result of using good seed, ceteris
paribus, the incremental production would be about 1,900 tons of paddy over the life of
the project or $553,000 using economic net incremental value estimates.

3.3 Efficiency (Satisfactory)

As this was emergency project, a conventional economic and financial analysis was not
carried out during appraisal. The EPP included crop budgets for rice paddy and seed
production for “with? and “without? project scenarios for return to labor calculations.
Similar crop budget analysis was carried based on the M&E data and the Lao PDR Rice
Sector Study (see Annex 3 for details).

Paddy production gross margin analysis. The Gross Margin (GM) analysis shows that
paddy (R4) production is a relatively marginal economic activity under “without project?
scenarios at 2012 farm-gate prices of 1,800 Kip per kg for wet season paddy and 2,000



                                           12
Kip per kg for dry season paddy. The “without project? return to family labor for wet
season paddy was $3.3 per day, which is below prevailing off-farm wage rates of $4.5 per
day. The “without project? return to labor for dry season paddy production was $4.5 per
day. Under the “with project? scenario, return to labor for wet season paddy production
rose to $4.6 per day (37% increase) and for dry season paddy to $5.8 per day (29%
increase). These estimates are lower than return to labor calculations done during
appraisal (about $9 per day for wet season paddy and $13.5 for dry season paddy). There
may be two reasons for that: (a) a methodological difference of construction of farm
budgets and underlying assumptions as no details of the appraisal farm model
calculations were available; and (b) the difference in price levels. The average paddy
prices in 2008 were 2,226 Kip per kg. Applying this price to the GM models would
increase the “with project? return to labor for wet season paddy production to $6.4 per
day and to dry season paddy to $6.8 per day.

R3 production gross margin analysis. The results show that the “with project? return
to labor increased to $5.1 for wet season R3 production (55% increase) and $6.3 for dry
season R3 production (40% increase).

Food security analysis was carried out using farm budgets for wet season paddy
production. Results show that the marketable surplus of milled rice increased from 1,289
kg per household under “without project? scenario to 2,282 kg per household under “with
project? scenario (77% increase). The value of rice in paddy equivalent increased from
Kip 4.7 million “without project? to Kip 6.7 million “with project? due to higher price
levels in 2008. Benchmarking survey data shows that only 3% of rural households
experienced rice shortages equivalent to one month’s rice consumption.

Benefit-Cost Analysis (BCA) was carried out only for activities under Component 2.
BCA was not carried out for investments under Component 1 which supported rice
research and seed multiplication centers to due difficulties in attributing the values for the
public good and services generated by these investments. Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR)
from incremental paddy production by 178 target farmers over six cropping seasons was
1.2. The BCR of 1.2 should be treated as a conservative lower bound estimate. The
reasons why BRC is underestimated are two-fold. First, it does not consider the
economic value of R3 seed production due to difficulties of assigning economic values
for R3 seed which is currently not traded in private markets in Laos, nor with neighboring
countries. Secondly, it does not account for possible incremental production through area
expansion. It is assumed that all incremental production comes only from yield
improvements, while in reality some R3 seed production could have come from
additional land being brought under production. In sum, the BCA shows that project
investments on seed multiplication activities were relatively efficient.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. A moderately satisfactory overall rating is fully
justified on the basis of: (i) satisfactory relevance of PDO; (ii) moderately satisfactory
achievement of outcomes; and (iii) satisfactory efficiency. Even though the project met



                                             13
most of its key performance targets, achievement of outcomes is rated Moderately
Satisfactory due to the shortcoming in the design and measurement of some indicators
cited in Section 2.1 significant risk to development outcomes cited in Sections 2.1 and 4.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project had a strong poverty alleviation focus and impact with eight of its 29 target
districts (28%) being among GOL’s 47 poorest priority districts. Overall, 30% of the
4,600 families participating in seed multiplication groups were from ethnic minorities.
Project benefits included incremental income increased (see Annex 3) and improved food
security as cited above. There is no available information regarding the gender dimension
of project design and impact. Finally, the seed purchased from project farmers was
provided to 4,000 flood-affected farmers in three provinces, giving them the means to
restore their livelihoods and address food security concerns.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

While the project did not directly trigger institutional reforms needed to improve the
performance of the rice seed sector, it did expose the key weaknesses in the current
system, such as lack of demand planning for seeds and the need for the involvement of
the private sector in seed production and distribution. This has influenced the GOL’s
thinking and initiated the internal discussions on this matter. The principle decisions
were to set up a National Seed Board, privatize some seed stations, and establish steps for
seed quality control, and GOL took some concrete regulatory steps, such as preparation
of a draft Seed Law and seed quality control guidelines by MAF. Some of these measures
are being supported under LUFSIP which is scheduled to close in December 31, 2014.
However, any substantial reforms in the seed sector will depend on GOL’s willingness to
liberalize rice and paddy exports and refrain from price-setting interventions, which have
negative effects on farmer welfare.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

There was no beneficiary/stakeholder workshop. Six beneficiary benchmarking surveys
were conducted by the INGO under the project’s M&E. Their findings have been taken
into account in the assessment of project’s achievements.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome (Rating: Significant)

The project has generated significant direct benefits to its target farmers and near-by non-
project households. However, there is a risk of not sustaining these outcomes due to the
following two factors, both of which are rated as significant:

   Government sector policies. The sustainability of the project’s outcome would require
    that farmers renew their seeds regularly (every three to four years) to maintain their



                                            14
    productive potential, and make rational use of fertilizers. However, current
    government policies and market structures are not supportive of farmers’ continued
    adoption of these technologies for two reasons: first being limited access to good
    quality seeds due to lack of distribution channels; and second being the negative
    impact of GOL trade policies on the profitability of rice production and thus on
    farmer welfare, namely discretionary export bans imposed at central and provincial
    levels on rice exports, which depress farm-gate prices and thus farmers’ willingness
    to adopt new technologies. Elimination of these policy distortions is thus a key
    condition for sustainable development of the rice and rice seed sector in Laos.

   Natural disasters. Laos has been subject to natural disasters (floods and droughts)
    that occur regularly, and with climate change, this unfortunate pattern is likely to
    continue and perhaps intensify. The recurrence of natural disasters regularly destroys
    the productive assets of smallholders in the project’s areas. The country’s capacity to
    quickly respond to these emergencies has been limited both financially and in terms
    of institutional preparedness. While GOL has been addressing emergency
    preparedness through preparation of disaster risk management plans and lately by
    allocating its designated budget funds to establish emergency rice seed stocks, the
    effectiveness of these measures remains to be tested, as it will take time to establish
    robust and functioning emergency preparedness/response systems.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in         Ensuring Quality at Entry (Rating: Moderately
    Unsatisfactory)

The project was prepared and processed efficiently (in six months) as an emergency
operation under OP/BP 8.0. Identified in September 2008, the project went to the Board
on January 13, 2009 and the Grant became effective on March 2, 2009. The project was
designed in close coordination with the MAF and NAFRI. Its design was in line with the
country’s priorities and strategies (NGPES and Agricultural strategy) and the mandate of
the Bank’s newly established GFRP and the CAS. The technical design of the project was
sound and based on relevant experiences and lessons in Laos and other countries.
However, perhaps as a trade-off with speed of preparation, it had some shortcomings, in
particular: (i) technical assistance provided to newly formed seed multiplication groups
was much too short; (ii) the project did not offer any secure and remunerative outlet for
(at least part of) the seeds produced by farmer groups when, in the absence of a
sufficiently deep local market demand, it was unrealistic to expect that they would be
able to sell a significant part of their production; and (iii) the project design did not
consider broader structural issues affecting the seed sector in Laos which has implications
on the sustainability of its investments and risks to development outcomes as discussed
above. The latter was a critical issue if the intention was to address longer-term sector
development issues and would have been possible under the GFRP (Components “Food




                                            15
price policies and market stabilization? or “Enhancing domestic food production and
marketing response).

(b) Quality of Supervision (Rating: Moderately Satisfactory)

The quality of supervision was generally good, although there were delays in
implementation in the initial stages and teething problems with procurement that proved
difficult to solve. Six formal implementation support missions and two informal technical
support missions (to monitor the use of inputs provided to farmers) were carried out by
the Bank’s team over the 3.5 year implementation period. The launch workshop was held
only on June 9-10, 2009 and the first supervision in September 2009. Initial supervision
support focused primarily on resolving procurement-related issues. It was only at the
beginning of 2010, during the second implementation support mission, that the Bank
started to provide the proactive field implementation support necessary to ensure
adequate performance of field activities, including group formation, training and efficient
input distribution to farmers. Bottlenecks in financial and procurement management were
gradually resolved and field implementation issues adequately handled in collaboration
with implementing agencies. There were no major fiduciary or safeguard issues. The
Bank team spent a substantial amount of time providing FM, procurement and technical
guidance and monitoring, and played an important part in ensuring that the project
fiduciary systems operated well.

In order to ensure more efficient use of grant resources the Bank team insisted of sharing
the international fiduciary TA and the installation of electronic accounting system with
LUFSIP, which had similar FM and procurement arrangements. The Bank team also paid
considerable attention to the implementation of the M&E system during its missions, for
monitoring implementation and tracking progress against the PDO and key indicators.
Project supervision reporting was comprehensive and the ratings were candid: during the
difficult start-up period, the project was rated moderately unsatisfactory until problems
were adequately sorted out and benefits began to flow.

The emergency nature and short implementation period of the project were not amenable
to deep restructuring to mitigate the design deficiencies. For example, there was no
opportunity to improve distribution of R3 seed through structured extension activities to
absorb R3 seed produced under the project due to short project timeline combined with
delays at start-up and commitment of project funds. Furthermore, the institutional
mandate for extension services in Laos falls under the National Agricultural and Forestry
Extension Service (NAFES) which was not involved in the project preparation.

Finally, GOL requested to extend the Closing Date by six months to June 30, 2012, in
order to allow for completion of procurement under Component 1 and use seed procured
from project farmers from 2011/12 dry season to provide emergency assistance to the
victims of the 2011 typhoons. This request and subsequent project restructuring were
quickly and efficiently processed by the task team.




                                            16
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance (Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory)

Although there were some weaknesses in project design the Bank’s performance can still
be considered “Moderately Satisfactory? as the project was able to achieve its PDO and
intermediate results.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance (Rating: Satisfactory)

GOL was fully supportive of the project and participated in its design. It appointed a
strong team of senior managers and technical specialists within NAFRI to coordinate
project activities and ensured that the concerned PAFOs and DAFOs were fully involved
in project implementation. Key implementation issues were quickly resolved when raised
to MAF’s senior management attention. Senior staff of NAFRI and MAF regularly joined
implementation support missions. Implementation issues at central level were essentially
linked to financial management and procurement matters for which responsible staff had
little experience. Senior MAF managers monitored implementation closely and their
evaluation of and feed-back on project’s achievements was instrumental in Government’s
decision to continue support to selected seed multiplication farmer groups under
Government’s new Emergency Food Security Program. GOL can be commended for its
quick response to requesting a restructuring to allocate uncommitted funds for the
purchase of project rice seed for 4,000 farming households in the three provinces affected
by the two typhoons that hit in 2011.

(b) Implementing     Agency    or Agencies Performance          (Rating:      Moderately
   Satisfactory)

The project was implemented by NAFRI through Regional Research and Seed
Multiplication Centers for Component 1 and PAFOs/DAFOs for Component 2. The
implementation performance was generally satisfactory. The project complied eventually
with all legal covenants, although there were delays in reaching some of them, such as
recruitment of fiduciary staff, which had implications on project performance. This
affected particularly the procurement of farm and seed processing equipment under
Component 1. On the other hand, seed stations delivered agreed outputs (R1 and R2
seeds, training of farmers and technical backstopping of farmer groups) in a timely
fashion. DAFOs and PAFOs were committed to the project objectives and beneficiaries
and ensured a good coverage of famer groups, as evidenced by beneficiaries’ feedback
under the M&E system.

There were also weaknesses of NAFRI to ensure the proper coordination and planning of
seed production activities between seed stations, some delays in transferring operational
funds from NAFRI to PAFOs/DAFOs, which in some cases may have delayed activities
on the ground. There was also slow start in establishing M&E systems, but this work
caught up well during later stages of the project implementation. The supervision



                                           17
missions pointed out problems in project progress reports which did not always utilize the
full richness of data generated by M&E system, although there was steady improvement
throughout the project. Some of that was related to reporting and communication skills of
NAFRI staff and should not be overplayed. Nevertheless, the project management was
always well informed of the details of implementation progress and competent on
technical issues. At the end of the project NAFRI did produce a pertinent project
implementation completion report which used data from all these sources.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance (Rating: Moderately
Satisfactory)

Based on the assessment of Borrower and Implementing Agencies’ performance, the
rating for Overall Borrower Performance is “Moderately Satisfactory?, owing mainly the
weaknesses related to NAFRI’s project management.

6. Lessons Learned

   It is necessary to avoid ambiguity in the central objectives of an “emergency
    operation? to be supported by the GFRP or any other Bank window, to ensure the
    most efficient design and implementation arrangements. If focus is strictly on one-off
    short-term measures of an emergency nature, project design should avoid activities
    whose efficiency may be negatively affected by broader structural institutional and
    policy issues, and the most efficient existing implementation/delivery mechanisms
    should be used. If the project aims to also address, in addition to shorter-term
    emergency issues, longer-term development issues, project design and the
    implementation period should be adjusted accordingly. The design should spell out
    more clearly the constraints imposed by existing institutional and policy framework,
    propose mitigation measures if possible, and structure project activities so as to
    ensure reasonably efficient implementation, even if addressing broader institutional or
    policy constraints is not possible or beyond the scope of the emergency operation.

   Seed multiplication is complex technology and should not be attempted lightly. Seed
    production is suitable for more advanced farmers. Lessons learned from the project
    show that significantly longer capacity building support than just two cropping
    seasons is required to establish strong seed producer groups. It is therefore suggested
    that seed multiplication activities be combined with parallel extension scale-up
    support for larger numbers of farmers, using some small seed packages produced
    under the project. This approach is now being piloted under LUFSIP.

   Demand side issues should be addressed as well as its supply side. The number of
    target groups to be established and supported, and related seed production targets,
    should be carefully calibrated against potential demand. Under RPIP, there should
    have been clear agreement at the beginning of each cropping season about the volume
    of seed to be produced and marketed to avoid any difficulty in marketing farmers’
    outputs. Although it was acknowledged that there existed very little real demand for
    improved seeds (except the institutional demand from projects and NGOs) no


                                            18
   arrangements were made to provide an immediate remunerative outlet for the group’s
   seed outputs or to support the development of distribution channels.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (implementing agency) confirmed that the Lao
Rice Productivity Improvement Project (RPIP) has been beneficial to the country and is
in line with the Government strategy of increased food security of farmer groups and
strengthening of community based rice seed production. The government goals on
agriculture for the period of 2011 to 2015 have focused on improvement of rural
livelihoods (through agriculture and livestock activities) and increased production and
value added of agriculture commodities.

The MAF comments noted that key impacts of the project have been: (i) improving
quality and quantity of seed production (R1 and R2) through enhanced capacity of the
participating stations and centers by upgrading their facilities and improving human
resources; and (ii) increased awareness of seed production technology among farmers
through supporting rice seed multiplication by 178 farmers groups. The project produced
more than 9,000 tons of R3 (or equivalent) rice seed by project farmers. Another key
impact expressed by the implementing agency is overall paddy yield increase of 35%.
The Government comments also appreciated the support provided to the 4,000 household
who affected from Haima and Nock-ten Typhoons affected Laos in 2011.

The implementing agency comments pointed out that despite the general success of the
project, there were delays in the procurement of farm inputs and seed processing and
farm equipment for seed stations, which affected project implementation. In addition, the
MAF comments recognized that lack of seed markets in Laos may affect the interest of
farmer groups to continue with seed production activities, and suggested to involve other
government organizations and line agencies, private sector (rice millers, rice exporters)
and NGOs rice seed distribution systems, and find the way to promote rice value chain
development. It was suggested that these lessons learned be incorporated in the future
seed production projects.

(b) Co financiers/Donors

There were no co-financiers.




                                           19
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                      Appraisal            Actual
                                                                                    Percentage
                                      Estimate
      Components                                                                        of
                                       (USD                (USD
                                                                                    Appraisal
                                      millions)           millions)
A. Support to Rice Research and
                                        1.48                    1.59                107
Seed Multiplication Centers
B. Support to Farmer Seed
Groups and On-Farm                      0.94                    0.94                100
Demonstrations
C. Management Monitoring and
                                        0.57                    0.46                80.70
Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost                    3.00                     2.99                99.98
Physical Contingencies                 0.00                     0.00                 0.00
Price Contingencies                    0.00                     0.00                 0.00
Total Project Costs                    3.00                     2.99                99.98
Project Preparation Costs              0.00                     0.00                 0.00
                                       0.00                     0.00                 0.00
Total Financing Required               3.00                     2.99                2.99




   (b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal        Actual/Latest Percentage
                                    Type of
Source of Funds                                       Estimate           Estimate        of
                                  Cofinancing
                                                    (US$ millions)     (US$ millions) Appraisal
Global Food Crisis Response
                                                        3.00               2.99           99.98
Program




                                               20
                           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Support to Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Centers (base cost
$1.32 million, 44% of the project cost). This component addressed the rundown in
critical equipment and infrastructure in Government Rice Research and Seed
Multiplication Centers (RRSMCs) to provide for secure separation of varieties and
production of clean, dry, weed free, high quality R1 and R2 seed for later multiplication
as R3 seed for general use by farmer groups under component 2. Specifically, the Project
was to provide equipment for seed production and conditioning, including drying,
grading, packaging, cool storage, as well as small training facilities and transportation at
selected government research centers and seed multiplication stations including: Thasano
Seed Station (Savannakhet Province); Nongdaeng Crop and Livestock Research Center
(Salavan Province); Phonengam Agriculture and Forestry Research Center (Champassak
Province), Provincial Agricultural Training Center of Khammouane Province and
Naphok Central Seed Station in Vientiane. In addition, the project would provide support
to establish a small seed laboratory at Naphok Central Station and others which were
considered essential for ensuring quality standards.

Component outputs (Moderately Satisfactory). The Project supported and strengthened
the capacity of participating centers to produce improved rice seeds (R1 and R2) to
respond more efficiently to emergencies. They produced a total of 2,690 tons of R1 and
R2 seeds over six cropping seasons or an average of 896 tons per year, against 150 tons
in 2009. This represents more than three times the target result indicator (“an incremental
production of “at least 140 t/year?). Some 156 tons of R2 were supplied to farmer groups
(6% of total). It is estimated that at least 75% of R2 produced under the project was used
for seed multiplication activities under Component 2 or sold (to third parties) as seeds, in
line with the project’s target result. Seed Centers also provided 78 trainings on seed
production and group management as well as technical backstopping to all groups
established under the project.

The project also provided farm and seed processing equipment including nine tractors,
four trucks, three plot harvesters, four transplanting machines, 30 seed driers, 25
winnovers and 20 threshers, which have been distributed to seed stations and selected
farmer groups. The lack of these assets was not a great constraint to achieving the project
targets, given the very low basis and modest incremental production volumes in absolute
terms from 150 tons in 2009 to the average of 896 tons per year. These incremental
production volumes were possible thanks to operational costs provided by the project
which allowed seed stations to better utilize existing capacities. However, the equipment
procured is necessary to ensure the longer term sustainability of seed production in Laos,
especially in light of Government’s goal to produce 60,000 tons of rice seed by 2015.

Seed stations are now able to improve the quality of seed produced due to improved
drying capacities. The total cumulative drying capacity of seed in beneficiary seed
stations increased from 7.5 tons per day before the project to 52 tons per day after the




                                            21
project 1 (data per province/seed station is provided below). The cold storage capacity
which was installed in Thasano seed station is 20 tons. This would help the seed station
to better plan its seed production volumes, which do not need to be based on actual order
given one year ahead (which is normally significantly less than actual expressed demand)
and leave some additional stock for additional demand.

Table 1. Incremental seed drying capacities supported by RPIP.
    Province/seed station                    Drying capacity before          Drying capacity after
                                               project (tons/day)             project (tons/day)
    Khammouane/Xebangfai                                1                             16
    Savannaketh/Thasano                                 4                              4
    Saravan/Nongdaeng                                  0.5                            16
    Champassac/Phonegnam                                2                             16
    TOTAL                                                7.5                            52

While there Government has not allocated additional operating costs to the operation and
maintenance of the equipment and facilities provided under the project, the seed stations
are now able to cover these costs themselves through sale of seed to third party customers
(donor funded projects, millers and farmers). With increased operating revenues from
seed sales, the stations are able to do even better maintenance of assets provided under
the project. However, replacement of such equipment after their useful economic life will
still have to be made either by the government, which is the owner of these assts. The
longer term financial sustainability of seed stations hinges on broader seed sector reforms,
which could include privatization of some seed stations and their assets, and full
commercialization of their operations. The government is considering this option.

The project was supposed to finance laboratory equipment for seed quality control. Since
this activity was also supported under the LUFSIP, and given that responsibility for seed
quality control lay under the Department of Agriculture and not NAFRI, it was decided
not to pursue acquisition of this equipment. Instead, the project procured lab equipment
and materials for soil testing which was needed to determine more precise fertilizer
application rates for different soil types. The lab equipment is located in Soil Survey and
Land Use Planning Center under the Department of Land Management of NAFRI, and is
being used for soil testing.

Component 2: Support to Farmer Seed Groups and On-Farm Demonstrations (base
cost $1.09 million, 36.3% of the project cost). This component would establish and
support up to 200 farmer groups of about 20 farmers each in about 70 Kum Bahns in each
of the selected provinces (Khammouane, Savannakhet, Champassak and Saravane) as the
basis for broader dissemination of seed multiplication technology and scale-up of



1
  There was not an independent seed quality control system in place in Laos during implementation of
RPIP. Such system is being established under LUFSIP.



                                                  22
improved seed use. The project was to support farmer groups over six crop cycles (three
years), each group receiving support for two cycles. Technical support and monitoring
was provided by participating Seed Multiplication Stations as well as Provincial and
District Agricultural and Forestry Offices (PAFOs and DAFOs), with the assistance of 14
Junior Consultants (young graduates of agricultural colleges) specifically recruited for
this purpose by the project. These Junior Consultants, who were based in project villages,
worked closely with DAFO staff and supported them on farmer outreach, training and
follow-up, and field data collection. At the end of the project, 4 Junior Consultants found
employment with NGOs and 10 were hired by the government and work now as DAFO
extension staff. As such, this capacity build under the project will continue to support
agricultural development in Laos. This approach of seconding Junior Consultants with
DAFO staff has proven to be successful and is being now replicated under the LUFSIP.

Component outputs (Satisfactory). The establishment of 200 farmer group within three
years proved to be too ambitious (partly because the project lost one cropping season due
to delays in procuring fertilizer). In total, 178 farmer seed multiplication groups,
comprised of 4,600 families, were established under the project. More than 500 on-the-
job training days, 153 tons of R2 seed, and 532 tons of fertilizers were provided to farmer
groups. The training provided to the farmers covered the topics related to rice seed
production and soil improvements, and included the following specific technical themes
and activities: farmer group formation and site selection, rice seed preparation and
seeding, planting techniques, and postharvest technologies, land preparation and fertilizer
application, and compost making. The beneficiary households increased their yields and
production significantly and have seen their incomes increase substantially when judging
from return to labor (see Annex 3) while participating in the scheme. Participating
farmers produced 9,066 tons of R3 equivalent seeds over the six cropping cycles of
which an estimated 4,417 tons were utilized as seed.

Table2: Main inputs distributed to farmer groups during 2009-2012
    Season         Wet Dry season Wet                    Dry season Wet          Dry      Total
                  season 2009/2010 season                2010/2011 season       season
                   2009             2010                            2011       2011/201
                                                                                   2
    Seed            23.2         11.4         29.1          34.6       36.5       18      152.8
    distributed
    (tons)
    Fertilizer      69.0        28.92         109.9         123.7      128.9     71.5     531.4
    distributed
    (tons)




2
    Low amount of fertilizer is due to procurement issues that year.




                                                       23
Table 3: Seed production by farmer groups and their usage during 2009-2012
Season        Wet        Dry        Wet        Dry         Wet        Dry         Total
             season     season     season     season      season     season
              2009     2009/201     2010     2010/201      2011     2011/201
                           0                     1                      2
No. of
Farmer         26         11          20          33        60          28        178
groups
Seed
produced,    1,092       1,032      1,522        2,433    1859.5     1128.6      9,066
tons
Seed
             474.8       434.7     1042.8        1041.6    776.7      646.6      4,417
used, tons

It is estimated that 46% of the seeds produced during the 2009-2012 wet season were
used as seeds (sold, exchanged or own use). According to the Project Completion Report,
NAFRI estimated that overall seed used by farmers over the project period was 4,147
tons throughout exchanges, own used and preserved and sold. The M&E system does not
provide information about the proportion of the farmers participating in the seed
multiplication groups who adopted and are maintaining the use of all or part of project
input packages (target result: “at least 25%?). However, considering that about 60 groups
will continue to participate in government rice seed production programs as a
conservative lower bound estimate, one can conclude that at least 34% of seed
multiplication groups will maintain the use of all or part of project input packages. This
figure does not include those seed multiplication groups (estimated 10-20 groups) who
may continue to produce seed for rice mills under contract farming arrangements created
by EMRIP, since it is not clear whether these groups will also participate in the
Government program.

Other unintended outcomes and impacts. At GOL request, the project contributed to the
emergency response to damage caused by Typhoons Haima and Nock-ten (July and
August, 2011) in three project provinces. A total of 420 tons of R3 seed was procured
from project farmers and distributed to affected families to permit the planting of 4,000
ha of rice during the 2012 wet season, creating thus market for R3 seed while addressing
emergency recovery needs.

It should be noted that the impact of the project went beyond the direct beneficiaries
(farmers participating in seed multiplication groups). Many non-participating farmers
living in project villages exchanged paddy against the seeds produced by participating
farmers (generally on a one-to-one basis), to test the new varieties and sowed a portion of
their land with good seed. According to data from NAFRI, about 572 tons of seed were
exchanged against paddy over the project life. Assuming a seeding rate of 100 kg per
hectare, the area sown under good seed would amount to about 5,100 ha with a harvest of
about 4,300 hectares after crop losses. Assuming a conservative 15 percent incremental
yield increase as a result of good seed, ceteris paribus, the incremental production from



                                            24
such seed exchange would be about 1,900 tons of paddy over life of the project or
$553,000 using economic net incremental value estimates.

Component 3: Management Monitoring and Evaluation (base cost US$0.59 million,
19.6% of the project cost). This component supported overall project management and
coordination, as well as the establishment and implementation of a detailed M&E system.
Project management was the responsibility of a small management team established at
the Headquarters of the NAFRI in Vientiane, consisting of a Project Director, Deputy
Project Director, Procurement and Financial Management specialists and short term
consultants.

Component Outputs (Moderately Satisfactory)

The project team managed to meet most agreed targets. There were no major fiduciary
issues and project audit reports were unqualified. The project established a good M&E
system, which included a baseline survey and crop season-specific benchmarking surveys.
This system, which tested credible under the RPIP, was later replicated under LUFSIP
with some additional technical improvements. Although the project quarterly reports fell
short of using the richness of data generated by the M&E system, project management
used this information to inform management decisions. While, project team had limited
capacity in terms of quarterly reporting (primarily limited to English language skills) they
were technically very knowledgeable and worked diligently to drive results on the ground.
The internal NAFRI management reports contained a wealth of information on project
inputs and outputs and this data was subsequently presented in final project report, which
was of good quality and provided substantive inputs for the preparation of the ICR.




                                            25
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Overview

This annex presents results of the analysis of economic and financial impacts and
efficiency of resources used for RPIP. The PDO was to increase rice productivity and
overall volume of rice production among smallholders in four selected provinces, thereby
increasing incomes and improving food security for small farm households.

The results of the analysis indicate that the project represented an efficient approach to
addressing food security needs of participating farmers in Laos. As this was an
emergency project, a conventional economic and financial analysis was not carried out
during appraisal to calculate the net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return
(ERR) estimates. The efficiency and effectiveness of project investments were evaluated
through the analysis of gross margins and returns to labor using farm budgets. The ICR
aims to replicate this analysis by constructing farm budgets which were developed based
on the data which was collected through field work over February to May, 2012.

Methodology

Gross Margin Analysis was carried out for paddy (R4) and R3 production. Farm budgets
for wet and dry season rice production systems were developed based on the data which
was collected during supervision missions and field work in project provinces in
February-March 2012. The output and input price data come from the same time period.
The October 2012 ICR mission confirmed no significant changes to these price levels. It
was not possible to replicate the analysis of farming margins carried out during appraisal
due to lack of details of farm budgets. The comparative analysis was thus done only for
return to labor indicators, albeit the results should be interpreted with caution given the
differences in model assumptions and parameters.

The incremental yield increases for wet and dry season paddy crop come from the project
baseline and benchmark surveys. The “without project? scenario assumes that farmers
use old recycled seed of improved varietals produced on their farms, while under “with
project? scenario farmers use good seed (R3) which will be recycled every three years.
The average wet season paddy yields increased from 2.5 tons per hectare under the
“without project? scenario to 3.9 tons per hectare under the “with project scenario?. This
is about a 56 percent increase and is considered reasonable for the package of good seed,
fertilizer and improved farming practices. The average dry season paddy yield increased
from 3.5 tons per hectare to 4.4 tons per hectare, or a 26 percent increase. These
incremental yields are consistent with a total average incremental yield increase of 1.2
tons per hectare over wet and dry seasons as projected at appraisal.

The main changes in wet season input use come from increased application of fertilizer
as suggested by the project (200 kg of NPK fertilizer, 100 kg of urea per 1 hectare) and
reduced use of seed (from 120 kg per hectare to 80 kg per hectare). It is assumed that
application of good agricultural practices which were introduced by project-led training



                                            26
would increase the use of family labor by seven days during the wet season, or a six
percent increase. The total cost of wet season seed and fertilizer use increased from
466,000 Kip without the project to 1,577,280 Kip with the project. These figures are
lower than appraisal assumptions of seed and fertilizer costs of 1,031,000 Kip and
1,816,500 Kip respectively in 2008.

The input use cost for dry season paddy production has remained essentially constant
between “without? and “with? project scenarios. In fact, the cost of seed and fertilizer
declined marginally from 1,844,000 Kip under the “without? project scenario to
1,777,333 Kip under “with? project due to more rational and efficient use of fertilizer and
seed, and adoption of good farming practices as farmers tended to overuse fertilizer, or
used poor quality or the wrong type of fertilizer.

The analysis shows that paddy production is a relatively marginal economic activity
under the “without? project scenarios at 2012 farm-gate prices of 1,800 Kip per kg for
wet season paddy and 2,000 Kip per kg for dry season paddy. The “without project?
return to family labor for wet season paddy was $3.3 per day, which is well below
prevailing off-farm wager rates of $4.5 per day in the project areas during 2012. The
“without project? return to labor for dry season paddy production was $4.5 per day.
Under the “with project? scenario, return to labor for wet season paddy production rose to
$4.6 per day (37 percent increase) and for dry season paddy to $5.8 per day (29 percent
increase) (Tables 1 and 2).

These estimates are lower than return to labor calculations done during project appraisal
(about $9 per day for wet season paddy and $13.5 for dry season paddy). There may be
two reasons for that. First there is the methodological difference in parameters of farm
budgets and underlying assumptions. The details of the farm model calculations made
during appraisal could not be found. The second was the differences in price levels. The
average paddy prices in 2008 were 2,226 Kip per kg. Applying this price to the gross
margin models would increase the “with project? return to labor for wet season paddy
(R4) production to $6.4 per day and to dry season paddy to $6.8 per day.

Table 1. Gross margin analysis and return to labor for WS paddy (R4) production
                                                Without        With        %
                                 Unit            project      project    change
 Production                     Kg/ha              2,500       3,900       56
 Revenues                       Kip/ha          4,500,000    7,020,000     56
 Costs of inputs                Kip/ha          1,601,556    2,783,947    73.8
 Gross margin                   Kip/ha          2,898,444    4,236,053    46.1
 Family labor                     p-d               109         116        6.4
 Returns to family labor        Kip/p-d           26,591      36,518      37.3
Note: 1US$ = 8,000 Kip




                                            27
Table 2. Gross margin analysis and return to labor for DS paddy (R4) production
                                                Without         With
                                 Unit            project      project   % change
 Production                     Kg/ha              3,500        4,400     25.7
 Revenues                       Kip/ha          7,000,000    8,800,000    25.7
 Costs of inputs                Kip/ha          3,071,778    3,095,111     0.8
 Gross margin                   Kip/ha          3,928,222    5,704,889    45.2
 Family labor                     p-d               109          123      12.8
 Returns to family labor        Kip/p-d           36,039       46,381     28.7
Note: 1US$ = 8,000 Kip

The results indicate that at the current price levels, paddy production is an attractive
economic activity only when farmers have access to irrigation which would allow them
to practice double-cropping.

R3 production gross margin analysis. Since baseline and benchmark surveys did not
differentiate between farmers who received R2 seed for R3 production, the ICR used the
following assumptions for R3 production gross margin analysis. First, the ICR assumed
that the price of R3 seed is in average 20 percent higher than R4 seed. This was
confirmed during supervision missions. Although farmers were not able to sell all their
R3 production at this price premium, it is assumed that it would be a reasonable proxy for
higher yields of R3 production. Secondly, it was assumed that production of R3 seed
would require about 20 percent more labor than paddy (R4) production. The results of
gross margin analysis are presented in tables 3 and 4.

The “without project scenario? results are the same as for paddy (R4) production –
farmers use old recycled seeds of otherwise improved varietals. The results show that
“with project? return to labor increases to $5.1 for wet season R3 production (11 percent
increase compared to paddy) and $6.3 for dry season R3 production (9 percent increase
compared to paddy).

Table 3. Gross margin analysis and return to labor for wet season R3 production
                                                Without         With       %
                                   Unit          project       project   change
 Production                         Unit           2,500        3,900     56.0
 Revenues                          Kg/ha        4,500,000     8,424,000   87.2
 Costs of inputs                  Kip/ha        1,601,556     2,783,947   73.8
 Gross margin                     Kip/ha        2,898,444     5,640,053   94.6
 Family labor                     Kip/ha            109          139      27.5
 Returns to family labor            p-d           26,591       40,576     52.6
Note: 1US$ = 8,000 Kip




                                           28
Table 4. Gross margin analysis and return to labor for dry season R3 production
                                                Without          With       %
                                   Unit          project        project  change
 Production                         Unit           3,500         4,400     25.7
 Revenues                          Kg/ha        7,000,000     10,560,000   50.9
 Costs of inputs                  Kip/ha        3,071,778      3,095,111    0.8
 Gross margin                     Kip/ha        3,928,222      7,464,889   90.0
 Family labor                     Kip/ha            109           147      34.9
 Returns to family labor            p-d           36,039        50,782     40.9
Note: 1US$ = 8,000 Kip

A financial analysis was not carried out for R1 and R2 production as these costs were
treated as intermediary inputs in R3 and R4 production models. The EPP presents also an
economic analysis of an organic non-glutinous rice production model. This analysis was
not replicated by the ICR since the project did not support the production of non-
glutinous rice. It should be noted that annual production of non-glutinous rice makes up
about 10 percent of total rice production in Laos or about 300,000 tons of paddy which is
being primarily grown under informal contract farming arrangements for trade with
Thailand.

Food security analysis was carried out using farm budgets for wet season paddy (R4)
production. The data from the baseline and benchmarking surveys shows that average
area of wet season paddy in project areas declined from 1.9 hectares per household in
2010 to 1.7 hectares per household in 2012. The average production of wet season paddy
per household increased from 4,750 kg of paddy under the “without project? scenario to
6,600 kg of paddy under the “with project? scenario. Assuming 12 percent postharvest
losses and 100 kg of seed use per hectare before conditioning, this would leave a farm
level surplus of 5,650 kg of paddy available for consumption and sales. This is converted
into milled rice equivalent using a milling ratio of 61 percent which reflects the relatively
low processing quality of village mills. The surplus rice per household under the “with
project:? scenario is thus 3,482 kg per household compared to 2,489 kg per household
under the “without project? scenario, or a39% increase.

The EPP argues that the average annual consumption needs of rice farming household are
2,600 kg of rice. Assuming that average household size is six members, this would imply
a rice consumption level of 433 kg per person per year. This analysis argues that this
estimate is grossly overstated. According to rice consumption data analysis carried out
under the Lao PDR Rice Sector Study, using LECS 4 data from the 2007/08 household
survey, the average rice consumption in Laos was 179 kg per capita in 2007/08, with
average rice consumption in rural areas being higher at 199 kg per capita. Using a 199 kg
per capita rice consumption estimate, the annual food consumption requirements of the
average rural household with six members would be about 1,200 kg leaving the rest for
sales or animal feed. The marketable surplus of rice has thus increased from 1,289 kg per
household under the “without project? scenario to 2,282 kg per household under the
“with project scenario? or almost double. The value of this surplus in paddy equivalent



                                             29
increased from Kip 4.7 million ‘without project? to Kip 6.7 million “with project?, or a
43% increase, when using average paddy farm-gate prices from 2008 and 2012.

In sum, the average production and consumption estimated from farm model calculations
do not seem to support the argument that rural household in project areas experience rice
shortages. This is consistent with the findings of benchmarking surveys which show that
only 3 percent of rural households in project areas experience rice shortages, equivalent
to one month rice consumption requirements.

Benefit-Cost Analysis (BCA)

The BCA was carried out only for activities under Component 2 which provided support
to farmer Seed Groups and On-Farm Demonstrations. The BCA was not carried out for
investments under Component 1, which supported rice research and seed multiplication
centers to due difficulties in attributing the values for the long-term public good and
services generated by these investments.

Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) from increased paddy production (R4) by 178 target farmers
and from incremental paddy production from seed exchanges between project and non-
project farmers over six cropping seasons under Component 2 was 1.2. This BCR was
calculated conservatively against the full cost of US$1.1 million of Component 2 without
deducting US$0.4 million which was allocated for seed purchases for emergency
distribution after the project restructuring.

The BCR of 1.2 should be treated as a conservative lower bound estimate. The reasons
why BRC are underestimated are two-fold. First, it does not consider the economic value
of R3 seed production due to difficulties of assigning prudent values for R3 seed which is
currently not traded in private markets in Laos. Secondly, it does not account for possible
incremental production through area expansion due to lack of information. It is assumed
that all incremental production comes only from yield improvements, which is a
conservative assumption, since some R3 seed production could have surely come from
additional land being brought under production. As such, the BCA shows that project
investments on seed multiplication activities were relatively efficient (and probably more
than what can be derived from the presented data).

Assumptions and approach. Incremental value of production was imputed by using
“with project? yields in harvested paddy areas as reported by NAFRI and deriving the
“without project yields? using the percentage changes for wet and dry season yield
increases from baseline and benchmark surveys used in the gross margin calculations
above. The reference farm gate prices of paddy (economic prices) were derived from
reference Thai border prices (FOB) which were calculated to estimate Producer Subsidy
Equivalents (PSE) in the Laos PDR Rice Sector Study. The reference farm gate price for
paddy was 3,163 Kip/kg for 2009/10 farming season and 4,276 Kip/kg for 2010/11
farming season. It was assumed that the reference farm gate prices for 2011/12 farming
season were 4,200 Kip/kg. It was assumed that financial prices of purchased inputs and
family labor reflected their economic values. The incremental production values where



                                            30
calculated using net margins which included the cost of family labor. Lastly, the analysis
assumes that, given the short duration of the project, no discounting need be applied to
the estimated benefits and costs. The results are presented in Table 5.

Table 5: Calculation of incremental benefits of paddy (R4) production by project
farmers
              Harvested                  Yield        Yield                                     Incremental
                area         R4          With       Without         Incremental      Net          value of
              under R4    Production    Project      Project         Production     margin       production
                (Ha)        (MT)       (MT/ha)      (MT/ha)            (MT)        (US$/ton)       (US$)
2009WS          268         1,092        4.1          2.6              395              183        72,322
2009/10DS       267         1,032        3.9          3.1              213              155        33,008
2010WS          353         1,522        4.3          2.8              546              332       181,391
2010/11DS       524         2,433        4.6          3.7              502              330       165,676
2011/WS         492         1,860        3.8          2.4              668              296       197,637
2011/12DS       256         1,129        4.4          3.5              233              286        66,629
Total           2,160       9,068                                     2,557                       716,662

Table 6: Calculation of incremental benefits of paddy from seed exchange
                 Seed        Area          Area         Incremental                           Incremental value
              exchanged     planted      harvested       Production           Net margin        of production
                (MT)         (Ha)          (Ha)            (MT)               (US$/MT)              (US$)
 2009WS          41           369           258                97                 183              17,726
 2009/10DS       53           477           467             245                   155              38,040
 2010WS          93           837           628             235                   332              78,155
 2010/11DS       141         1,269         1,155            606                   330             200,067
 2011/WS         184         1,656         1,358            509                   296             150,729
 2011/12DS       59           531           451             237                   286              67,770
 Total           571         5,139         4,318            1,930                                 552,487




                                               31
 Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


   (a) Task Team members
Name                Title/Specialty                 Unit      Remarks
Lending

Rahul Raturi             Sector Manager             EASRE     At the appraisal
Mona Sur                 Peer Reviewer              ARD
Michael Morris           Peer Reviewer              AFTAR
Riika Rajalahti          Peer Reviewer              ARD
Indira Ekanajake         Peer Reviewer              LCSAR
Kanathee Danaisawat      Financial Manager          EAPCO
Chinnakorn Chantra       Procurement Specialist     EAPCO
Phetsila Somsanith       Program Assistant          EACLF
Olga Hoxon-Rizo          Program Assistant          EASRE
Richard Chisholm         Task Team Leader           EASRE
Manida Unkulvasapaul     Environmental Specialist   EASRE
Viengkeo                 Environment Specialist     EASRE
Phetnavongxay
Guzman Garcia-Rivero     Consultant                 EASRE
Dan Gibson               Senior Social Scientist    EASSI
Tony Zola                Consultant                 EASRE
John Richardson          Consultant                 EASRE
Sybounheung              Social Development         EASSO
Phandanouvong            Specialist
Nipa Siribuddhamas       Financial Management       EAPCO
                         Specialist
Thalavanh                Program Assistant          EACLF
Vongsonephet
Supervision/ICR
Richard Chisholm         Task Team Leader           EASRE
Paavo Eliste             Task Team Leader           EASTS
Chinnakorn Chantra       Procurement Specialist     EAPCO
Viengkeo                 Environment Specialist     EASRE
Phetnavongxay
Sybounheung              Social Development         EASSO
Phandanouvong            Specialist
Nipa Siribuddhamas       Financial Management       EAPCO
                         Specialist
Guzman P. Garcia-
                         Consultant                 EASIS
Rivero
Stephanie Anne Kuttner   Consultant                 LCSAR
Roch Levesque            Senior Counsel             LEGAM



                                          32
                          Financial Management
Siriphone Vanitsaveth                                 EASFM
                          Specialist
Malarak Souksavat         Financial Management        EASFM
                          Analyst
Khamphet                  Procurement Specialist      EASR2
Chanvongnaraz
Christopher Robert        Christopher Robert          EASFM
Fabling                   Fabling
Chanhsom Manythong        Rural Development           EASTS          ICR author
                          Specialist
Jean-Paul Chausse         Rural Development           EASTS          ICR co-author
                          Advisor
Thalavanh                 Program Assistant           EACLF
Vongsonephet
Brong Lee                 Program Assistant           EACLF


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                US$ Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                consultant costs)
Lending
FY 09                                          6.39                  69.18

                           Total:              6.39                  69.18
Supervision/ICR
FY 09                                          2.30                  13.91
FY 10                                          6.53                  61.92
FY 11                                         21.68                  59.82
FY 12                                         23.83                  56.85
FY 13                                         11.95                  27.39

                           Total:             66.29                 219.89




                                           33
      Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


N/A




                      34
                 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

List of Participants of ICR Consultations

No    Name and Family name       Institution/Responsible
I     Meeting participants in Savannakhet
1.    Mr. Sayaloun               Provincial Coordinator-Savannakhet
2.    Mr. Chanmany               Assistant Provincial Coordinator assistant-Savannakhet
3.    Mrs. Saythong              District-Coordinator-Outhomphon
4.    Mr Som On                  District-Coordinator-Champhon
      Mr. Khamseng
5.                               Head of Savannakhet Agriculture division
      Sorphamixay
6.    Mrs. Vangchai              Savannakhet Agriculture division
7.    Mrs. Khetsana              Savannakhet Agriculture division
8.    Mr. Senmaleng              District-Coordinator-Xaibuli
9.    Mr. Thavon                 District-Coordinator-Khaison
10.   Mrs. Somkhamdee            District-Coordinator-Xonbuli
11.   Mr. Khatsomboun            Provincial Coordinator-Khammouane
12.   Mr. Chanthaphon            District Coordinator-Sebangfai Khammouane

13.   Meeting participants in Champasack
14.   Mr. Somvang               Head of Phon Ngam Station
15.   Mr. Vongvilay             Provincial Coordinator assistant-Champasack
16.   Mr. Vorachit Sihathep     Provincial Coordinator assistant-Champasack
17.   Mr. Sithanat              Provincial Coordinator-Salavane
18.   Mr. Somxai                Head of Nongdeng station -Salavane
19.   Mr. Vongsavan             District-Coordinator- Vapee




                                            35
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                             36
37
38
39
40
      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                     41
                    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


GOL            National Growth and Poverty Elimination                   2004
               Strategy
World Bank     Country Partnership Strategy for the Lao    March         2005
               People’s Democratic Republic
IRRI           Sowing seeds in lab and field:                            2006
               socioeconomic impact of the Lao-IRRI Rice
               Research and Training Project
WFP            Comprehensive Food Security and                           2007
               Vulnerability Analysis (CFSVA)
World Bank     Lao PDR Country Economic Update             July          2008
World Bank     Emergency Project Paper                     December      2008
GOL            Lao Expenditure and Consumption Survey                    2008
               (LECS IV)
World Bank     Financial Agreement                         March         2009
World Bank     Grant Agreement                             March         2009
GOL/MAF        Project Baseline Survey                     April         2010
GOL            Agriculture Strategy 2011-2015              September     2010
GOL/MAF        Ethnic Minority Participation Framework     May           2011
World Bank     Project Restructuring Paper                 November      2011
World Bank     Laos Rice Brief Policy Note: Rice Price     November      2011
               Study
GOL/Helvitas   Project Benchmarking Survey                 February     2011
GOL/Helvitas   Project Benchmarking Survey                 October      2011
GOL/Helvitas   Project Benchmarking Survey                 March        2012
GOL/Helvitas   Project Impact Report                       May          2012
GOL/Helvitas   Project Benchmarking Survey                 June         2012
World Bank     Rice Policy Study                           October      2012
World Bank     Aide Memoires of the Project                      2009-2012
               Implementation Support Missions
World Bank     Implementation Status and Result Reports            2009-2012
GOL/MAF        Project Quarterly Reports                           2009-2012
GOL/MAF        Project Completion Report                                  2012




                                      42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 36573
 100˚                                                          102˚                                               104˚                                                                       100˚                           105˚                   110˚




                                                                                                                                                                      MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHINA
                             CHINA                                                                                                                                                                 LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEOPLE'S                          Gulf               20˚
                                                                                                                                                                                                 DEM. REP.                           of
                                                                                                                                                                                          Vientiane                                Tonkin
22˚                                                                                                                                                22˚
                                                          1A

                                                                                                                                                                                           THAILAND
                                                               19   Phongsaly                                     VIETNAM                                      15˚
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       15˚




                                                                                                                                                               Andaman Sea
                                                                    PHONGSALY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         VIETNAM
                                                               1B
MYANMAR                                                                                                                                                                                                     CAMBODIA
                                                                                 2E
                              17                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21∞
                                Luang
                              Namtha                                                                                                                           10˚
                                                                                                                                                                                             Gulf
                               LUANG               Muang                                                                                                                                      of
      g




               BOKEO                                                                                                  Sam
     n




                              NAMTHA                  Sai                                                                                                                                  Thailand
 Meko




                                                                    13N
                         3
                                                                                                                      Neua
                   Ban                        OUDOMSAI                                                                           6
                                                                                                                                                                                    100˚                          105˚                         110˚
                   Huaisai                     2W                                             1C
      Chiang                                                                  LUANG
                                                                                                                       HOUAPHAN                                                                                             This map was produced by
       Kong                                                g                 PRABANG                                                                                                      106˚
20˚                                Pak Beng             kon                                                                                                                                                                 the Map Design Unit of The
                                                    Me                                                                                                                                                                      World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                          4B              Luang                                                                                                                                             colors, denominations and
                             SAYABOURY                                    Prabang         XIANG                                                                                                                             any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                         KHOANG                                                                                                                             the part of The World Bank
                                               4A                                                      7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                        Xiang                                                                                                                               legal status of any territory,
                                     Sayaboury                                         Khoang                                                                                                                               or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            acceptance of such
                                                                           13N                                                                                                                                              boundaries.

  THAILAND                                                     Vang Vieng                          5
                                                              VIENTIANE                 Xisomboun                1D
                                              4
                                                                                       XAISOMBOUN                                                                                                                              GULF
                                                                    Pone                                               BOLIKHAMSAI
                                                                                                            Paksane
                                                                    Hong              Nam Ngum                                                                                                                                     OF
                                             ng




                                                                                                                      Namkading
                                             eko                                  10
                                                                                       Reservoir
                                         M




                                                               11
                                                                                                                           13S                8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TONKIN
                                                                                                                      Me




                                    Sanakham                                                   Thanaleng                                                                                                                                               18˚
                                                                                                                      ko




18˚
                                                                                                                       ng




                                                                                       A12                                             Ban
                                                              VIENTIANE                                                               Nongsu           1E
                                                                                             PREFECTURE OF
                             Kenethao                                                        VIENTIANE                                       KHAMMOUANE
                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                             Thakhek



                                                                                                                                                                              1F

                     LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                 Keng
                                                                                                                                             9A
                                                                                                                                                       Seno         9
                          RICE PRODUCTIVITY                                                                                          Kabao

                                                                                                                           Savannakhet
                                                                                                                                                  9B   Ban     SAVANNAKHET
                        IMPROVEMENT PROJECT                                                                                                             Laksamsipha


                                                                                                                                                                                             1G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15                                    16˚
16˚
                              SUPPORT TO RRSMCs* AND FARMER GROUPS                                         AIRPORTS
                                                                                                                                                                                  SARAVANE                  Saravane
                              SUPPORT TO RRSMCs*                                                           SELECTED TOWNS                                                                        15
                                                                                                           PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS                                                                      1H
                              PRINCIPAL HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                                                                  Sekong
                              HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                20                                  SEKONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                      16
                                                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                              OTHER ROADS                                                                                                                                    16                            16B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1I
                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           Champassak CHAMPASSAK
                              BORDER CROSSINGS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Attapeu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18B
                              *Rice Research and Seed Multiplication Center.                                                                                                                          18A
                                                                                                                                                                                   g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ATTAPEU
                                                                                                                                                                                  Mekon




                                                                                                                                                                                      13S                              1J

               0        50          100            150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                             Khong

14˚            0        25          50             75          100 Miles                                                                                                                                                                               14˚

                                                               102˚                                               104˚
                                                                                                                                         CAMBODIA                                          106˚

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OCTOBER 2008
