Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20678
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-24032)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
June 29, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2000)
Currency Unit = Convertible Mark (KM); equivalent 1:1 to
Deutsche Mark
DEM I = US$ 0.481693
US$ 1 = DEM 2.07612
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CI           Cooperazione Italiana
EC           European Commission
EU           European Union
ICR          Implementation Completion report
IDA          International Development Association
IMG          International Management Group
PIU           Project Implementing Unit
RBB          River Basin Bodies
SRP           Sector Recovery Program
TF           Trust Fund
TOR          Terms of Reference
USAID        United States Agency International for Development
VBH          Vodopriveda Bosnia and Herzegovina
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn (ECAVP)
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan J. Poortmnan (ECC04)
Sector Manager/Director:    Walter Stottmann/Ricardo A. Halperin (ECSIN)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Seema Manghee (ECSIN)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   8
6. Sustainability                                                                       9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     12
9. Partner Comments                                                                    13
10. Additional Information                                                             17
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   31
Amex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P044458                                       Project Name: WATER, SANITATION, URGENT
WORKS
Team Leader: Seema Manghee                                TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: WATER, SANITATION, URGENT WORKS                LIC/TF Number: TF-24032
Country/Department: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                   Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: WS - Sewerage; WW - Water Supply & Sanitation
Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/15/95                                 Effective: 05/24/96           05/24/96
Appraisal:  03/26/96                                  MTR:
Approval:  04/01/96                                Closing: 06/30/99             06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/VODOPRIVREDA BIH
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                     Christine 1. Wallich
Sector Manager:      Walter Stottrnann                          Margret C. Thalwitz
Team Leader at ICR:   Seema Manghee                             Richard A. MacEwen
ICR Primary Author:   Seema Manghee
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Conditions Prior to the Project
During the 1991-95 war, water supply and waste management systems suffered extensive damage. At
war's end, the resulting problems were further increased by the division of the country and by massive
population movements. Even prior to war damage, the lack of adequate maintenance and rehabilitation in
the water and wastewater sector was a problem. The main reasons for the deterioration of service at the
end of the war were: (a) inefficient operation of water supply and wastewater networks due to a lack of
maintenance and repair; (b) the utilities' management and operational weaknesses as many qualified
managers and engineers left the water sector, both in Vodopriveda Bosnia and Herzegovina (VBH) and at
the municipal level; (c) increased demand for water and waste management services due to the influx of
refugees; (d) inaccessibility of important water sources as a result of the war; (e) poor financial situation of
the utilities due to low cost recovery and collections; and (f) impairment of solid waste systems.
Inefficient operation of systems. In regard to water supply, the main problems were high system losses,
and in some cases, reduced supply capacity. Water leakage losses, which averaged around 30 percent
before the war, increased to 60 percent by war's end. In the Federation, 40 percent of the population no
longer had 24 hour water supply. Clogged sewer and drainage systems left areas flooded for extensive
periods. Also, there was little household water conservation as taps were left running and broken pipes
remained without repair.
Management and operational weaknesses.  The war had significant impact on the structure and
effectiveness of sectoral institutions.  Although the division of responsibilities between the central
government and the municipalities did not change, VBH, located in Sarajevo, was created as the
independent water management enterprise for the Federation. Managerial and other staffing at both the
VBH and the municipal levels was affected drastically because the most qualified personnel chose to leave
the country or found more lucrative jobs in the private sector. This continues to be a problem today.
Increased service demand. The influx of displaced persons into already overpopulated urban areas further
increased the demand for water supply and sanitation services. Delivery of drinkiing water of appropriate
quality and quantity was constrained by network problems or capacity constraints in the source, treatment
and transmission systems.
Water sources made inaccessible. Lack of cooperation between ethnically divided communities resulted
frequently in water sources being inaccessible to one community or the other. In those cases the provision
of sewerage and solid waste services was generally divided that greatly reduced efficiency of operations and
prevented the optimum allocation of the available resources.
Poor financial situation of the utilities. The war conditions adversely impacted on the economic situation
of both domestic and other consumers. The utilities' cash flow was severely curtailed due to the inability to
enforce the collection of bills from consumers. Lack of funds further compounded the deterioration in their
financial situation by preventing the necessary maintenance and repairs.
- 2 -



Solid waste services. Prior to the war, most municipalities had fairly well organized solid waste collection
services, ensuring delivery to landfill sites or temporary disposal areas. This service practically collapsed
since many garbage trucks were destroyed during the war, or became non-operational due to lack of
maintenance. Collection equipment sustained extensive damage, access to landfills was severely limited by
landmines and small urban tipping areas became overburdened. River banks and forests became dumping
sites as waste transport became unavailable. While most larger towns had permanent landfill sites prior to
the war, only the towns of Tesanj, Mostar and Sarajevo had properly designed and constructed sites. Many
municipalities had lost access to garbage trucks and containers to handle their refuse. After the war, new
and used garbage collection trucks were gradually supplied by donors.
Sector Recovery Program
To address the situation, a Sector Recovery Program (SRP) was prepared by the Federation with the
assistance of the International Management Group (IMG) and World Health Organization (WHO). IMG
was founded in 1993 by the European Union (EU) to provide technical assistance to the Federation as well
as Republika of Srpska for the restoration of war damaged infrastructure. The overall program was to be
implemented through three successive country-wide projects: the first project was for urgent works; the
second project for rehabilitation works; and the third project for system upgrading works. The envisaged
implementation period for the program was three years.
The objectives of the overall program were to: (a) meet the immnediate needs of the affected population; (b)
return water-management facilities to their pre-war conditions; (c) make selected improvements of high
priority; and (d) help establish the institutions needed to sustain the sector over the long-term.
Project Objectdves
The project was designed as the first part of the phased three year program. It aimed at addressing the
most immediate needs, and its objectives were to: (a) take selected actions to improve service quickly and to
remove risks to public health; (b) start the preparation of works that would take a longer time to implement;
and (c) start making institutional changes that would result in the long-term sustainability of the sector.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included five components: (a) the supply of equipment and materials; (b) urgent works for the
provision of water supply, sanitation and solid waste services in municipalities; (c) emergency sector
planning; (d) institutional strengthening through the provision of technical assistance, training and recurrent
cost financing; and (e) preparation of technical assessments for a potential second project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components remained the same during project implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory taking in account the emergency nature of the project and the
circumstances in which it was prepared. Given the urgency of responding immediately to the most serious
and immediate post-war needs of the affected population, the project was prepared and presented to the
-3 -



Board within a period of four months. The preparation mission took place in November 1995; negotiations
started on March 21, 1996 and Board approval was on March 28, 1996.
The state of readiness of the various components at Board approval reflected the emergency nature of the
project. The investment components, list of participating municipalities as well as the specific list of
investments to be undertaken were completed after loan effectiveness. The municipalities eligible for
support under the project were divided between the Bank and donors, with the Bank responsible for the
residual list after the donors had established their preferences. The differences in terms and conditions of
the Bank and donor financing resulted in some inequities of treatment to the municipalities - with some
receiving other non-repayable funds while others received repayable amounts under the Bank loan - without
a clear definition of underlying criteria other than donor preferences. The need for coordination with the
donors also led to some delays in the finalization of the lists of eligible investments. Although the project
was presented as a single, integrated project financed by the Bank and the clonors, no satisfactory
arrangements were defined for monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the project as a whole.
The project objectives for the institutional components may, in hindsight, have been somewhat narrow -
largely limited to provision of training and preparation of additional investments to be undertaken in the
next phase of the SRP. As a result, the project design did not permit essential elements of the SRP being
advanced to any significant extent. A related outcome was insufficient coordination between the Bank and
donors in the design and implementation of the sector reform. However, given the emergency conditions
existing at the time, this criticism may not be fully justified.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome can only be evaluated for a part of the total project - that financed by the Bank and the
Cooperiazone Italiane (CI). Jointly, this accounted for US$25.2 million out of the anticipated project cost
of US$70 million. In the end, the only co-financing was provided by CI. The balance of the project was
undertaken by various donors under bilateral funding arrangements.
Even at appraisal, there was a financing gap of US$30.3 million. At that time, it was understood that if the
fmancing gap was not met, the project would be reduced by number of municipalities and projects to be
prepared for the follow up phase would be reduced. As the project was designed with sub-projects in
different municipalities, each designed independently, the components could be safely expanded or reduced
to meet the available financing.
For the part financed by the Bank and the Italian Government, the overall outcome of the project is rated as
satisfactory. The project largely achieved its stated objectives as summarized below:
(a)    Taking selected actions to improve services quickly and remove r isks to public health.
The list of investments undertaken were selected on the basis of the need for increasing
availability of drinking water to the most affected segmnents of the population, and
rehabilitating wastewater collection and treatment systems where dangers of infiltration
and pollution were high. As a result of the investments, it is estimated that the quality and
quantity of water supplied has been improved for an estimated 300,000 persons. Coverage
of the drinking water network has been extended to approximately additional 60,000
persons.
-4 -



(b)    Preparation of long lead-time investments.  An Emergency Development Plan was
prepared to provide a basis for prioritizing further investments in the water supply and
sanitation sector to be undertaken by the local governments.  Detailed preparation,
including feasibility studies, final designs and procurement documentation has been
completed for a set of investments that could comprise possible follow up projects in the
sector.
(c)    Start making the institutional changes that will result in the long-term sustainability of
the sector.  The project has achieved its narrow institutional objectives as defined.
Training was provided at the federal, municipal and utility levels. Technical assistance
was provided as envisaged. Sustained, long-term institutional impact would depend,
however, upon the depth of local commitment to achieving the other aspects of sectoral
reform foreseen under the SRP, in the furthering of which the project had only a limited
contribution.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The following outputs were achieved per component:
(a)    Supply of equipment and materials. As planned, this component provided for financing
of materials such as construction equipment, pipes, fittings, spare parts and other repair
materials to the utilities to allow them to carry out urgent repair and rehabilitation works.
Eligible municipalities were those that had sufficient resources to readily use the supplied
materials without requiring additional financial assistance. The final allocation for this
component was US$1.40 million as against the original budget of US$15.30 million.
Implementation under the component was satisfactory.
(b)    Urgent works for the provision of water supply, sanitation and solid waste services in
municipalities. Details of the urgent works financed from the Bank loan are provided in
Section  10.  Investments in water supply largely related to rehabilitation and
reconstruction of networks and treatment facilities, but in some cases, where warranted,
capacity expansions were also undertaken where the original facilities were deemed to be
inadequate for restoration.  Wastewater investments were principally for rehabilitation
and repair of collection systems. In addition, although not originally planned, some
investments were also made for flood protection since they were judged to be urgent. The
final allocation for this component was US$21.76 million against the original budget of
US$46.80 million. Implementation under the component was satisfactory.
(c)    Emergency sector planning. The Emergency Development Plan assessed the needs of the
water, sewerage and solid waste systems in the municipalities and provided a prioritized
list of assessments. This list was useful in targeting a priority plan for investments. The
Plan also served as an evaluation for future investrnents in the sector. The final allocation
for this component was US$600,000 thousand similar to the original estimate of
US$600,000 thousand. Implementation under the component was satisfactory.
- 5-



(d)    Institutional Strengthening. Under this component, training was provided at the federal
level in sector reformn, private sector involvement in the provision of municipal water,
sanitation and solid waste, leakage reduction, and intemational practices in water
management. At the municipal level, training was provided in project and financial
management, reduction of physical losses, and computer skills. At the utility level,
training was provided to utility staff in sector strategy and organization, project
management, private sector involvement in the provision of municipal water, sanitation
and solid waste, and fmancial control.  The final allocation for this component was
US$1.40 million against the original estimate of US$2.30 million. Implementation under
the component was satisfactory.
(e)    Preparation of a follow up Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Rehabilitation Project
Final designs and procurement documentation for the contracting of works for
implementation under a potential second project have been prepared as envisaged. The
final allocation for this component was US$100,000 million against the original estimate
of US$5.0 million. Implementation under the component was marginally satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A net present value/economic rate of return was not originally calculated for this project, and has not been
calculated for this ICR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not originally calculated for this project, and has not been calculated for this
ICR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As indicated earlier (in Section 3.1), the project was conceived as the first phase of a three-phase SRP
which was essentially put together on the basis of work undertaken by other agencies, including IMG,
WHO, the United States Agency for Intemational Development (USAID) and the EU. In designing the first
project, lirnited to undertaking urgent works, it was assumed that the SRP would continue in parallel, and
that the institutional objectives of the SRP would be pursued in the course of the program, including two
successor projects to the first project.
Consequently, the project's institutional development impact was limited by its nature as an emergency
project, focused on implementation of urgent physical investments for providing relief to the affected
population. The relative emphasis on physical investments is reflected in the rather modest institutional
objectives sought to be achieved, and the design of the specific components. An implicit and not
unreasonable assumption seems to have been that the accompanying wider sector dialogue would continue
in the broader program context. At the same time, the fact that the sector program was prepared and
implemented under donor assistance limited the Bank's direct contribution to, and involvement in, the
proactive furthering of the SRP.
The project's direct contributions to institutional strengthening were through its components for training
and technical assistance. Thus, at the utility level, the project helped enhance implementation capacity in
VBH and the PIU, including project financial management, through provision of technical assistance and
training. Success of the effort is reflected in the fact that, over time, the assistance was phased out as the
- 6-



local agencies were increasingly able to carry out the work themselves. Training was also provided under
the project to officials and staff at the federal and local levels in design, analysis and sectoral organization.
By enabling the early preparation of an Emergency Development Plan, the project contributed to providing
a basis for prioritization of future water and sanitation sector investments covering 70 municipalities,
including the imparting of associated skills and training to the staff concemed.
The project has also been instrumental in introducing the participating municipalities' and utilities'
awareness to improve their financial situation and to eventually reach full cost recovery. The Bank
required the municipalities and utilities to enter into time-bound Action Plans (sample in Section 10) with
monitorable targets for progressive achievement of full cost recovery, based on a combination of improved
collection performance and tariff levels. With some delays, all participating municipalities through their
mayors, have endorsed their respective Action Plans. USAID, through a series of workshops, provided
technical support to the municipalities and utilities in developing more detailed computer based analyses for
updating of the Plans.
Outside of the project, improvements have also been achieved under the SRP in regard to the enabling and
policy framework vital for sustained institutional strengthening, although important issues still remain to be
addressed. These initiatives have largely been pursued under donor initiatives, and the degree of Bank
involvement has varied in each case. The status with regard to the more important of these initiatives is
summarized below:
After the war, one of the priorities of the Government was to establish efficient institutions for water
management at all levels of govenmment. The reconstruction of the water management sector was hindered
by an inefficient institutional framework, unclear assignment of responsibilities, and a shortage of qualified
personnel. To address this situation, the Government sought to: (a) prepare a new framework for water
management; (b) establish a new legal and regulatory framework; and c) enact a new Water Law.
The first step was to prepare a plan for the new waste management framework and an implementation
program. IMG, the consultants responsible for donor co-ordination and the EU were responsible for
preparing the first draft terns of reference (TOR) for the associated studies. The TOR was submitted for
review to the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forest, VBH and the Bank and agreed upon
by all three parties prior to proceeding with implementation.
The studies of the water supply sector were divided in the following sub-topics: legal, institution-building,
financial/cost recovery, human resources and water quality. The institutional strengthening component was
funded by the EU and has been completed. The Human Resources study, funded by the Spanish
Government, is underway. The remaining studies have not yet started.
The institutional resulting study proposed a model to restructure the water sector and implement a River
Basin Body (RBB) concept as the principal institutional mechanism for water sector management. A new
Ministry of Environment and Water was proposed. The Bank reviewed the institutional strengthening
study and determined that the long-run costs of running a restructured sector need to be carefully assessed.
In the short and medium term, the costs of restructuring and operating the sector are expected to be
subsidized by local governments and external donors. In the long run, however, the operating and
investment costs will need to be covered by sector revenues. Water pricing issues, both in terms of costs
and of the ability of consumers to bear those costs, needs to be examined in detail and an equitable system
developed for meeting costs. Unemployment is high, salaries are low and substantial investments will be
needed to meet EU standards.
-7-



At this point, there are some differences between the position of the Government and the findings of the
institutional strengthening and management capacity study that are yet to be resolved, leading to a
significant delay in institutional reorganization decisions. The Bank will remain engaged in assisting the
Government in this area.
The Water Law was passed in 1998. This complex piece of legislation was rewritten to correspond to the
new governmental structure but needs further revisions. In the Water Law, the responsibility for water
management is shared by a) the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry; b) VBH; and c)
cantons. The current Water Law establishes the regulatory functions of the Ministry, VBH and the
Cantons but the division of responsibilities between the three partners is not always clear from the text of
the law. The municipalities are not mentioned in the law. The levying of water extraction charges is an
element of the new Law, but at present this is not implemented.
There are still revisions needed to the law such as defining the responsibility of the Cantons in the
establishment and operation of VBHs. Also, a framework of responsibility needs to be established between
the Cantons, the Federation Government and RBBs. The Water Law seeks to establish various agencies,
such as the Water Management Business Association and a Federal Water Council which may be an
excessive number. The Bank is working with VBH to clarify the needed changes in the Water Law.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or impiementing agency:
Inadequate donor coordination. Coordination on the part of the Bank and the various donors could have
been far better in regard with both the project and the SRP. The project as presented was estimated to cost
US$70 million equivalent, of which the Bank was to contribute US$20 million and donors the remaining.
In practice, the Bank and donor (except the Italian Government) funded components were implemented
independently under different criteria. The evaluation of project impact could consequently only be made
for part of the originally conceived project. Similarly, in important elements of the policy framework, such
as the new Water Management Framework, the Bank and donors could have firther coordinated in
communicating their views to the Government.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements. There were some delays in signing of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements between the Federal Government and the municipalities. A major contributory factor
was the delays, at the municipal level, in adoption of the Action Plans for improvement of the utilities'
financial situation.
Lack of movement in settlement of arrears. Large governmental institutions and agencies, at both the
federal and municipal levels, continue to be major defaulters in payment of their dues to the utilities. There
has been little or no action at the respective governmental levels to start to address these issues which
would provide credibility of their commitment to implement the Action Plans.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
VBH and the PIU were competent and proactive in implementation of the physical investment and training
components under the project (as discussed in the Borrower section). VBH was less successful in
improving its financial situation as it was severely limited by its inability to enforce collections of dues.
-8 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the start of project implementation, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$70 million
equivalent, with US$20 million to be financed by IDA, and the balance of US$50 million from various
donor sources. Based on this amount, the Government had provided a priority list of investments so that
the entire amount of US$70 million could be used. The initially envisaged components were: (a) an
equipment supply component to be funded and managed by the EU; (b) a partially funded project
preparation component for a future Bank supported project; and (c) a USAID financed component for
purchase of goods and or/works for water supply systems for the Municipalities of Zenica, likuas, Vogosca
and Hadzici. In addition, USAID was also considering the financing of designs, repair and reconstruction
works for the war damaged Sava and Bonsa River dikes. Tender documents for fast tendering
(design/construct) were also prepared for Zenica with funds from the Austrian government.
Eventually, however, despite well meaning intentions of donor coordination, most donors financed their
own projects and worked independently. This resulted in imbalances in financing between municipalities
and lack of focus on institutional strengthening. The components in the other donor financed components
were implemented to various extents but did not include all of the municipalities in the Government's
priority list. No specific details are available on the costs, financing, and impact of the donor financed
components.
Under the project, the only cofmancing was provided by CI. The project cost of the Bank and Italian
financed part of the project is estimated at US$25.2 million equivalent, financed by IDA (US$20 million)
and CI (US$5.2 million). In the agreement signed on November 15, 1996, the Bank was requested to be
the executing agency for investments amounting to US$5.2 million. The CI list consisted of 22
municipalities from the Government's priority list including: Odzak, Sanski Most, Bos Grahova, Kresevo,
Grude, Rami and Livno, as well as consultancy services for planning activities of water supply and
sanitation facilities.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is rated as unlikely. This rating is based in part, due to country
conditions beyond the control of the sector and the Bank but also because much of the reform agenda still
remains to be implemented. While a great deal was achieved under the project, a sustainability rating of
unlikely seems prudent. The technical achievements under the project will be sustained in the short to
medium terms as VBH and the municipalities have the technical skills to operate and maintain the facilities
and equipment. Their longer-term sustainability, however, would depend upon adequacy of funds for
effective maintenance and replacement. Financial sustainablility of the project must also be rated as
unlikely at this time, since it depends significantly on the overall improvement in economic conditions in the
country. Massive efforts will be required to achieve full cost recovery. Inability of the utilities to enforce
collections of arrears and dues remains a major issue. Although collection performance has improved
gradually, the pace still remains very slow, and collections in the aggregate still remain around 50 percent
in most utilities. Action Plans have been entered into at the level of the municipalities and their respective
utilities for enabling financial recovery of the utilities, but their realization remains subject to the political
will at the federal and local government levels to enforce collections and raise tariffs. Important consumers
such as the army, large factories, and public institutions such as hospitals, remain major defaulters in
payment. Any improvement in this area is subject to the federal and local government's willingness to
enforce settlement of arrears from these large and/or public institutional consumers.
-9-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project investments have been fully integrated into the regular operations of the utilities. Major further
improvements at the institutional and financial levels are necessary to enable the utilities to achieve viable
operations. The necessary financial improvements have been described above. In addition, metering is
rare, and few incentives are in place to use water and other resources efficiently. Tariff rates are not set or
evaluated based on cost criteria. Few tariff increases have taken place since 1996. A legacy of socialist
management has resulted in systems that have little regular maintenance. Physical losses average around
60%, even in those systems untouched by the war. Private sector participation, as conditions permit, may
be the only solution to achieving efficient and viable operations, but progress in this regard would depend
upon the willingness of international operators to work in Bosnia.
Meanwhile, there are two follow up studies of importance for future investments: the Master Plan for the
Canton of Sarajevo covering water supply, sewerage and solid waste, and the Regional Solid Waste Study
covering the entire Federation and Republic Srpska. The Master Plan for the Sarajevo Canton will be
financed by Kuwait and is planned to be completed by 2001. The Regional Solid Waste Study, financed by
the EU, is expected to develop a solid waste strategy management strategy which will cover domestic,
industrial, medical and construction wastes and will define appropriate waste management approaches.
In addition to the above, the World Bank, under the Local Development Credit, has planned a municipal
finance facility that will make commercial loans available to qualifying municipalities. Lessons learned
from this project and relevant donor experience will be taken into account in the design and implementation
of any investments in the water and sanitation sectors that may be financed under the Credit. In the case of
loans for water system improvements, the local utility will have to meet commercial credit standards to
qualify for the loans. Technical assistance is provided to the municipalities to restructure their financial
management and create a regulatory framnework for municipal borrowing. In a joint effort, USAID's
objective with the utilities is to help them achieve the financial sustainability, transparency, and operational
efficiency that would meet the World Bank program's comnmercial credit standards and enable them to
qualify for loan financing for modernization and expansion of the water systems. The ability to attract loan
fiancing from independent conmmercial banks will depend upon the utility's undertaking adequate
organizational reform, and would provide a benchmark for evaluating progress.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in lending is rated satisfactory, although it could have been stronger in some
respects, specifically in coordination with the donors. The Bank inmmediately replied to the country's
request for an emergency loan in a post-conflict situation. When the donors first arrived after the war, the
aim was that the Bank would co-ordinate donor financing. Project design was therefore undertaken in the
expectation that other parts of the sector recovery program, dealing with institutional improvements, would
be undertaken in parallel with the project, and deepened under the two successor projects. As donor
co-ordination was unsystematic, institutional objectives under the project were therefore particularly
modest. Over time, most donors worked independently. This led to some lack of consistency in the
approaches to selection of participating municipalities, criteria for investments, and terms and conditions of
the various sources of financing. The Bank's impact on strengthening of the sector policy and institutional
framework was thereby limited.
- 10-



7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is rated marginally satisfactory due primarily to the fact that the
Bank did not attempt sufficiently to seek the donor financing as estimated at appraisal. However, the need
for the Bank to address the existing emergency conditions and the often strongly divergent interests of
donors, were mitigating circumstances in this regard. On the other hand, coordination with donors could
have been stronger in regard to the progress of the SRP, including in key policy and institutional initiatives.
Bank supervision was satisfactory in regard to monitoring the progress of the physical investments under
the Bank financed parts of the project. This was carried out largely through a consultant (a retired Bank
staff residing in Germany) who assisted the Borrower by visiting Bosnia three to four times a year to follow
up on project progress. This expedited procurement matters and allowed the project to disburse in a
relatively short period of time. These frequent supervision missions also enabled addressing the problems
of: (a) municipalities that blocked refugee returns but still sought to be included in the project; (b) delays
in preparation and signing of the Action Plan and eventual emphasis on cost recovery; and (c) analysis of
least cost investments.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, although it could have been more effective in regard to
institutional strengthening and donor coordination.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. Due to lack of funds immediately after the
war, VBH could not cover operating costs and staff were not motivated to work. The allocation of
US$500,000 under the Bank loan to cover the incremental operating costs enabled VBH and the PIU to
handle all matters related to design, construction and supervision services. VBH made all the necessary
staff available to work on the project and showed full commitment to speedy preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. There were delays in the
signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Federal Government and benefiting municipalities,
and also the Action Plans for cost recovery between the municipalities and their utilities. It was in
December 1998, two years after start of project implementation, that the Government approved the draft of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies (VBH and PIU) in the physical and training components of
the project was satisfactory. VBH, PIU and the Bank agreed during the first supervision mission in June 3,
1996 on the framework for a procurement plan and periodic reporting for the project. Monitoring and
reporting by VBH and the PIU were satisfactory. At the end of each sub-project, VBH/PIU prepared and
submitted completion reports. VBH also carried out its tasks well in of providing information and guidance
to the different municipalities to explain Bank procurement guidelines, matters of land acquisition and
resettlement, and the preparation of Action Plans to emphasize cost recovery matters.
- 1 1 -



VBH and the PIU competently handled their project implementation responsibilities and their technical
ability was of high caliber. By May 1997, the Bank no longer requested foreign technical assistance for
monitoring of quality of designs, construction supervision and construction quality. The satisfactory
construction activities were confirmed by the Bank's various site inspections.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the project that may have relevance for other emergency reconstruction
projects are:
(a)   Emergency projects, such as this one, by their nature tend to fcicus on the more urgent
physical investment interventions, yet their eventual sustainability is affected by the
achievement of the necessary institutional and policy improvements. The project design
should include, therefore, explicit objectives to be achieved in a phased manner, including
initiation of progress in improvement of the financial situation of the utilities, and in
management and operational strengthening.
(b)   In emergency projects where Bank financing is one among several complementary sources
of financing, the Bank should seek to take the lead in proactively seeking and achieving
donor coordination and consistency in key project matters, including the design and
implementation of the policy and institutional framework.  Due to lack of donor
co-ordination, some municipalities covered under the Bank project were provided with loans
(on IDA terms), whereas nearby municipalities that were economically stronger were given
outright grants for infrastructure rehabilitation by various donors. The utilities felt that it
was unfair that richer municipalities were receiving grants and that they were forced to
repay their investments. In the case of the project, the Bank's impact in these areas could
possibly have been improved through better upfront and ongoing coordination.
(c)   Given the uncertainty at the project design stage regarding the amounts of financing that
would become available from the various sources, the content and impact of the project
should be assessed conservatively, around the core of the Bank financing allocated to the
project. The possible additional benefits and impact from less firm elements in the
financing package should be clearly demarcated in project analysis and documentation.
(d)   Implementation arrangements should build on locally available expertise, and the utilization
of expatriate technical assistance should be limited to areas where they clearly add value.
In the case of the project, local staff proved to be of high technical caliber, and over time,
the technical assistance provided since the inception of project implementation was phased
out.
- 12 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Background (Submitted by VBH)
Total direct and indirect war damages in the "water" sector in Bosnia and Herzegovina amounting to US$950
million. Large migrations of people caused by the war resulted in people concentrating in urban areas. There
were big problems in functioning of communal infrastructure systems even in areas where direct damages were
minor, due to impossibility to maintain the systems (financial and personnel problems), which lasted for four
years.
"Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent Works Project" initially amounting to US$70 million was defined
as the first phase of the three-year program. The project included an urgent supply of equipment for
communal companies, realization of urgent works on the reconstruction of communal infrastructure,
preparation of necessary technical documentation to include strategic planning, as well as institutional
strengthening and preparing of organizations for future projects. The entire project was earmarked to the BiH
Federation.
Project Objectives
The following objectives were defined for the project:
3  to meet the immediate needs of the affected population;
3  to return water management facilities to pre-war conditions;
3   to make selected improvements that are of high priority;
*  to help establish the institutions needed to sustain the sector over a the long term.
Having in mind extremely large needs for the whole sector, it was clear that re-establishing to the pre-war
situation would require more time. Therefore, the aims of the project (first phase - Urgent Works) were to
undertake activities which would, in a short period of time, improve the quality of services and reduce the risk
of damaging people's health. Certain institutional changes were also included, if necessary, the aim of which
would be organizational strengthening in order to facilitate a better realization of future long-term projects.
Project Description
In order to realize the aims defined, the project included the following five parts:
* supply of equipment and materials;
* urgent works for the provision of water-supply, sanitation and solid waste services in
municipalities;
* emergency sector planming;
* institutional strengthening through the provision of technical assistance, training and recurrent
cost financing;
* preparation of project for a potential second project.
According to the initial Financial Plan, the total funds needed amounting to US$70 million would be provided
through the World Bank (US$20 million), EC (IJS$14.7 million), Netherlands (US$2 million), Austria (US$3
million) and the remaining amounting to US$30.3 million would be provided by other donors or creditors.
- 13 -



ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
Suitability of the Project Objectives
The global aims of the project were well set by the World Bank. As concrete works to be realized were not
defined in the Technical Annex or the Contract, a list of priority works was made in June 1996. The list was
made jointly by the BiH Federation Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry, the World
Bank, PIU and Vodoprivredas from Sarajevo and Mostar. Necessary funds for the defined works were
estimated at US$32 million.
In the meantime, the Italian Government confirmed that they would provide approximately US$5 million.
Works (from the priority list) to be financed with these funds were defined with Cooperazione Italiana as the
representative of Italy.
It is necessary to emphasize that the upgrading and extension of the pre-war systems were included in some of
the defined works. This was accepted jointly, primarily because the rehabilitation of the existing systems in
certain municipalities would not give proper results. Some of the existing systems had not been adequate even
before the war broke out, and thus the necessary project documentation was made or even serious
reconstruction works were commenced.
Although urgent works regarding flood protection were not included in the origina"l plan for this phase of the
project, particular works from this field were defined when the list of priority works was made for the whole
sector.
One of the aims of the project was to re-establish, actually to increase cost recovery from the municipalities.
In order to ensure the reimbursement of credit funds, it was planned that municipalities define the full cost
recovery in the following period by an Action Plan. According to the Action Plan, it was necessary to increase
billing and improve collections to cover all operational costs in the first two years. In seven years time, capital
costs should also be covered.  Provided those conditions are fulfilled, a sustainable functioning of
water-supply and sewage systems in municipalities will be facilitated.
Adequacy of the Project Design and Components
In accordance with the defined conditions of the World Bank, a preliminary review of the documentation for
particular works (main projects, bidding documentation and project tasks) was done by the World Bank or
organizations authorized by the World Bank. Most of the necessary documentation was made by project
companies from BiH, even though the economic situation at the time was extremely difficult, and even more
difficult to estimate the actual capacity of companies. The technical documentation done before the war was
used for some projects, but was updated accordingly.
Although it was concluded that the quality of technical documentation was satisfactory, additional works
needed to be done for particular projects, because it was impossible to foreseen all necessary works on the
reconstruction of systems. Thus, a clause was added in the bidding documentation related to unexpected
works, as a 5% contingency.
After the analyses of necessary reconstruction works had been made in some municipalities, the decision was
made to do larger reconstruction activities since the reconstruction of inadequate pre-war systems would not
be appropriate.
- 14 -



The smaller number of projects required co-ordination of activities together with some projects from other
sectors (reconstruction of roads or other infrastructure systems).  Regardless of co-ordination in the
preparation phase, additional problems would often arise during implementation but were solved.
Assessment of the Project Implementation
The BiH Federation Government established the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to implement the project.
The main task of the PIU was to implement the projects funded by the World Bank or other projects defined
by the inter-state agreement.
The PIU was responsible for the implementation of the following agreements within the "Water, Sanitation
and Solid Waste Urgent Works Project":
* Trust Fund Credit Agreement between IDA and BiH, TF 024032 BiH - US$20 million.
* Italian Grant Agreement between BiH and IDA (as Administrator of Grant Funds)- US$5.2
million.
The World Bank organized a number of very successful seminars in order to inform the PIU staff and
Vodoprivredas about standard bidding procedures. The seminars enabled the PIU to successfully carry out
bidding procedures during project implementation. After the General Procurement Notice was published in
Development Business and local press, more than 300 companies worldwide and 150 local companies
expressed interest in the project.
One of the immediate problems that occurred during the preparation of bidding procedures was the capacity of
the existing contractor and consultant companies. Many experts from pre-war companies either left the
country or started to work in some of many newly established private companies. There were pre-war
companies with many references but lacking the experts who used to implement projects. On the other hand
there were small newly established private companies "without references" but with extremely qualified
experts. As a result, it was agreed to carry out post-qualification procedures although pre-qualification
procedures was also planned.
The bidding procedures approved by the World Bank were used during the implementation as well as the
standard forms of documents.
During project implementation, the PIU signed a total of 152 contracts; 64 contracts related to technical
documentation, 58 for works and goods; and 30 contracts for supervisions.
The Dutch Trust Fund also provided funds to engage international consultants who were supposed to assist the
staff of the PRI and Vodoprivredas in preparing documentation, carrying out bidding procedures and
supervising work performance. Representatives of the World Bank reviewed the quality of the work of the
local staff and decided that it was not necessary to engage additional experts.
One of the primary objectives of the World Bank was to build local capacity. We can confirm that this was
fully achieved since all phases of the project were almost fully completed by local companies (designing,
performance and supervision).
The replenishment of the Special Account created additional problems on a number of occasions due to
lengthy and bureaucratic procedures, but fortunately the problems were solved.
- 15-



Regarding the quality and speed of implementation, it must be taken into consideration that the project started
immediately after the war. There was a need to start the works as soon as possible (which occasionally caused
problems), planned works to be done in more than twenty municipalities, and also that the different countries
and implementing agencies involved in the reconstruction effort had their own way of performing works.
Regardless of certain delays during some projects, works were fully completed in a quality manner.
Performance of the PIU and Vodoprivedas
When the World Bank started working after the war, there were two Vodoprivredas in the BiH Federation,
Sarajevo and Mostar. Upon establishmnent of the PIU, it was considered best to directly engage a small
number of experts from the existing companies taking into account their experience and awareness of
problems in the municipalities. We were believed that it would be necessary to involve VBH to implement the
project. All those assumptions turned out to be correct. By involving all Vodoprivreclas' staff in the project
implementation, the institutional strengthening was partly achieved. A number of staff attended seminars in
which they were informed about the work methodology of the World Bank and standard bidding procedures,
which assisted to improved the quality of work.
In a certain way, the problem regarding the engagement of employees was solved by using staff from
Vodoprivredas. After the project was completed, all staff returned to their old jobs. Wilth regard to the special
objective to establish and strengthen implementation capacities, we believe this objective was well defined and
successfully set achieved. One of the reasons is that funds for salaries and material costs of the PIU and
Vodoprivredas were provided within the credit resources.
In accordance with the terms of the contract between the World Bank and BiH, both financial and procedure
revision of the project were carried out on regular basis. The financial revision was done by the Dutch
Company, Coopers and Lybrand, while the procedure revision was carried out by PMAU established by the
BiH Federation Government and in close co-operation with the World Bank. All findings of the revisions were
positive.
Performance of the benefiting municipalides
All projects were realized in co-ordination with municipal institutions. Municipal. representatives were
involved in all activities from the bidding procedure up to the final account and technical acceptance of
reconstructed structures.
In the first implementation phase, it was difficult in certain municipalities to explain that it was impossible that
a Water Works Company, as a final beneficiary, performn the rehabilitation and reconstruction works on
infrastructure systems as it used to be done in these areas.
Regardless of problems and much time that was spent, full cost recovery, as one of the aims set up by the
World Bank within the Agreement, was achieved by signing the Subsidiary Credit Agreements with
municipalities. The Action Plan for full cost recovery was attached to the Subsidiary Agreement.
Performance of the World Bank
The World Bank had a key role in the overall Reconstruction Program in BiH, from organizing donor
conferences up to constant activities regarding co-ordination with other donors and creditors involved. We
would like to stress an extraordinary support and co-operation expressed by all representatives of the World
- 16-



Bank, the Task Manager and the whole team from Sarajevo and Washington who were involved in the
realization of this project. The work and daily activities of the PIU were eased to a great extent. In any
difficult situation, representatives of the World Bank were on our disposal and ready to provide full support to
solve any problems.
It is also important to emphasize the contribution of a number of seminars, held by the World Bank, to the
further strengthening of the whole sector. The municipalities and their water works and sewage companies,
PIU and VBHs benefited greatly from these seminars. By carrying out the World Bank bidding procedures,
local companies as well as municipalities learned about conditions for transparent selection of the most
qualified bidders. It resulted in better quality of offers by contractor and consultant companies.
PERFORMANCE OF OTHER DONORS
Performance of Italy
The Italian Government approved the grant funds for the BiH water sector. The funds were entrusted to IDA
as the administrator. The decision on projects to be financed by those funds was made in co-operation with
Cooperazione Italiana as the official representative of Italy. The Italian Government already approved those
funds in July 1996, and were made available in March 1997, after the agreement had been signed between
Italy and the World Bank; World Bank and BiH; and BiH (state level) and the BiH Federation. All works
were completed by using the same methods and bidding procedures used for the World Bank funds.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Submitted by Embassy of Italy
The World Bank Project, "Water Sanitation, Solid Waste Urgent Works", aimed at the rapid improvement of
Bosnia's public services, has been particularly important under several points of view. The final aim of the
project was the removal of risks to public health, therefore its importance is undeniable considering the social
and public benefits for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the outset, the Italian Government firmly
believed in the important role that the project could have played in the reconstruction of the country and for
this reason Italy has decided to support its implementation with a contribution of 5.2 million USD, becoming
one of its main donors. Through this cofinancing line, whose disbursement started in 1997, 22 projects in the
water sector have been accomplished throughout the country in several municipalities of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. As far as it concerns the results achieved by the project, Italian Government has been satisfied
by the efficiency and the technical and managerial abilities and sldlls proved by the World Bank's PIU in the
implementation of the activities. The project's distribution on the territory of the Federation has been equal
and balanced between the different areas of the Federation. Therefore Italian Government would like to thank
the World Bank and its' PIU for the positive and useful collaboration which demonstrated a great deal of
success.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Operating costs finded to VBH. After the war, government funding to the water sector ceased. Hence,
the critical need was to provide funding to the Vodopriveda and the PIU for salaries, office equipment, and
to keep the staff who were willing to remain in their jobs and most importantly, define a work program. In
light of this situation, the Bank agreed that VBH could use US$500,000 from the proceeds of the Credit to
- 17 -



finance its own salaries and operating costs. In return for this funding, VBH would provide design,
construction and supervision services for implementation of the works under the project.
Use of local contractors. Due to the break up of the pre-war public enterprises, new contracting firms had
to be created by personnel who had recently lost their jobs. The local consulting fims were largely firms
established by individuals who had worked for the design institutes that did the bulk of the engineering
work in former Yugoslavia. As the firms had recently established their own businesses, financial backing
was virtually non-existent. The Government did seek to encourage the development of the local
construction and consultation industry and fully supported the idea that most engineering and construction
work be done by local firms. As the bid packages were fairly small, it was assumed that most of the works
would be awarded to contractors within or adjacent to Bosnia as the size would not interest foreign
contractors. It was also believed that neighboring firms from Slovenia and Croatia would have good
chances of winning a large percentage of the works contract because of local knowledge and common
language ties.
Dutch Trust Fund. A Dutch Trust Fund (TF) was obtained as a fall back position in case foreign technical
assistance would be required to overview final design and preparation of tender documents. The
construction site supervisors prepared and submitted monthly progress reports including the reporting of
delays, additional cost and other problems. It was agreed that main test results (such as pipeline pressure
tests and concrete cube tests) should be recorded in the progress reports. The technical ability of VBH/PIU
was of high caliber. As a result, by May 1997, the Bank no longer requested foreign technical assistance
for monitoring of quality of designs, construction supervision and construction quality.
Issue of development of new sources. VBH requested that the Bank finance the construction of new water
sources on the territory of the Federation for the municipalities of Gradacac, Celic and Kalesija as an
alternative to restoring the original sources which are located on the territory of the Republika Srpska.
However, according to the Dayton Agreement, the three municipalities and others whose sources are not
located in the Federation should have access to the existing water sources. Therefore, the proposed
sub-projects in the three municipalities did not meet the Bank's criteria as being the least cost solution and
were not eligible for financing from the Bank credit.
Even during negotiations, as recorded in the minutes of negotiations, the topic of new source development
was addressed. At that point, the BiH delegation was advised that IDA would not finance for new source
development if the existing production capacity in the system in question was adequate. The IDA
delegation had stressed that if the primary purpose of the project was to provide standby capacity because
the existing source was located in territory of the Republika Srpksa this would not be an acceptable
criterion for project selection.
Eligibility criteria of selected municipalities. It was agreed that eligibility criteria should only be based on
need and not on implementation capacity. The rationale was that the municipalities with the greatest need
are also the least prepared to implement projects. It became VBH's responsibility to assist municipalities in
developing the capacity needed to implement their projects. Agreement was reached on the following
criteria for selecting municipalities, to be applied sequentially: deficiency in water quantity; deficiency in
water quality constituting a severe threat to public health; large number of beneficiaries; and deficiency in
water supply, sanitation or solid waste disposal which constitutes a constraint to economic development.
- 18-



The criteria for selection of municipalities/projects was reached with some difficulty as to which
municipalities to target, since funding had to be based on a fair allocation between the Bosniac and Croat
sides. The final selection allocated 75% of the funds to the Bosnian cantons and the remaining 25% to the
Croat cantons.
Political issues related to the financing of priority projects which were not yet in compliance with the
Dayton Agreement. Firstly, in Capljina and Stolac, Bosniac refugees were not allowed to return to their
homes. Secondly, in Gradacac, Corazde, Celic and Kaleskja, homes were located in Federation territory
but existing sources in Republika of Srpska that were not accessible. These areas sought to develop new
sources in the Federation. On these two matters, the Bank sent letters to the High Representative
requesting guidance on appropriate ways to proceed. In the end, it was agreed that all project towns would
have to comply with the Dayton Agreement and confirmed again that refugees must be allowed to return
back to their home and all current sources (regardless of location) must be made accessible.
SUMMARY OF SUB-PROJECTS IN THE MUNICIPALITIES
MUNICIPALITY OF KLJUC             Population in the Municipality: 8,300
Project: Rehabilitation of Water-Supply Systems in the Local Communities of Velagi, Kaniak and
Krasulje (DM391,455.00)
Project Description: The works included the reconstruction of pump plants on sources, rehabilitation of
water-supply system, rehabilitation of low-voltage electricity network and protection of sources.
Proiect Impact: The water-supply systems were made operational and water was provided for about
3,000 persons living in the local communities.
MUNICIPALITY OF SANSKI MOST              Population in the Municipality: 60,000
Population in the Town: 38,000
Project: Water-Supply System Sanski Most (DM2,114,089.64)
Project description: Construction of the main 3000 m long supply pipeline with 8 facilities on the
pipeline, 2 facilities of the pipeline crossing the rivers of Zdena and Sana and the rehabilitation of
water-intake on the source of the Zdena river.
Project Impact: Water cuts which were lasting up to 14 hours per day ended. Completion of works on
the Zdena source facilitated the increase of water-intake from 60 1/s to 90 I/s. It is now possible to
provide water for two suburbs with 6,000 population by extending the water-supply network.
MUNICIPALITY OF SANSKI MOST
VILLAGES OF VRHPOLJE, FAJTOVAC AND HRUSTOVO
Population in the villages: 5,000
Proiect: Construction of Water-Supply Systems in the Villages of Vrhpolje, Fajtovac and Hrustovo
(DEM388,831.00)
Project Description: Construction of three separated water-supply systems. The works included the
construction and rehabilitation of a 6,800 m long pipeline, procurement and installation of seven VCV
pumps with capacity of 180-250 1/m and also provided electricity to the pump station.
Proiect impact: All three water-supply systems were put in function.
MUNICIPALITY OF BUZIM             Population in the Municipality: 17,400
Population in the Town: 1,800
- 19 -



Project: Construction of the Bukim Water-Supply Well (DM1 31,600.00)
Project Description: Boring of the well casing with steel pipes with three 45 m long filter areas and
laying of a filter course around the pipe casing and well.
Project Impact: Water was provided for about 1,800 persons of Buzim and the constructed
water-supply system will extend water supply for 8,500 population by extending the secondary
water-supply network.
MUNICIPALITY OF ODJAK            Population in the Municipality: 25,000
Proiect: Rehabilitation of the Water-Supply System ODJAK (DM661,516.95)
Project Description: Rehabilitation works included the procurement and installation of three new pumps
on the main source (total capacity of 50 I/s), works on the automatization of pumps including all the
necessary electrical and mechanical operations, as well as the reconstruction of the damaged
water-tower and the installation of a system for water-treatment. Seven pumps have also been provided
for village water-supply systems.
Proiect Impact: During the war, basic facilities were completely damaged. Water is now provided for
about 10,000 population. Consumption of electricity has been decreased by the automatization of
pumps. Drinking water has been provided by installing the system for water-treatment. By
reconstructing and putting in function wells in the villages near Odjak, drinking water has been provided
for about 5,000 population.
MUNICIPALITY OF BANOVICI   Population in the Town: 9,100
Project: Water-Supply System Banovici (DMI,551,465.90)
Project Description: Construction of a 2776 m long pipeline and reconstruction of the pump in the
Strabenica Pump Station.
Project Impact: Newly constructed water-supply system facilitated water for suburb settlements (7,250
population) and a part of the Banovici industry (4,650 population) with a maximum daily consumption
of 140 V/inhabitant/day.
MUNICIPALITY OF KLADANJ    Population in the Municipality: 22,500
Population in the Town: 10,500
Proiect: Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of the Water-Supply System Kladanj (DM2,110,820.43)
Proiect Description: Construction of 2 interceptions, a 6419 m long pipeline from. the source to the
Gomja zona water tank, as well as the construction of the Gomja water tank Gomja and a 738 m long
pipeline from the Gomja water tank to the existing Hrastovac water tank.
Project Impact: After the project, an additional 53 I/s have been provided as well as a construction of a
distribution network for the wider area of the town.
MUNICIPALITY OF BREZA            Population in the Municipality: 17,375
Population in the Town: 4,100
Project: Water-Supply System Breza (DM637,289.81)
Project Description: Construction of a new 3400 m long pipeline from the Milkino source Milkino to
the water-treatment plant in Breza.
- 20 -



Project Impact: New quantities of water have been provided. Previous 90 llinhabitantlday have been
increased to 150 l/inhabitant/day and a number of surrounding settlements have been connected to the
water-supply system.
MUNICIPALITY OF VISOKO                  Population in the Municipality: 46,100
Population in the Town: 14,150
Proiect: Construction of the Main Sewer in the Old Town of Visoko (DM350,427.40)
Project Description: Construction of the main sewer on the left bank of the river Fojnica in the old town
of Visoko.
Project Impact: The project has facilitated connecting of the secondary network to the main sewer and
draining of waste water outside the town.
MUNICIPALITY OF BUSOVACA Population: 19,500
Project: Reconstruction of the Pipeline Tisovac-Busovaca (DM155,769.70)
Project Description: The Tisovac-Busovaca pipeline has been replaced.
Project Impact: After war damages on the water-supply system, only 2,500 population had access to
water. Water cuts were lasting up to 12 hours per day. By replacing the pipeline, water has been
provided from the source to the main water tank. The town and majority of suburbs have been supplied
with water by gravitation. Around 7,000 population are now connected to the town water-supply
network and another 5,000 population provided with water.
MUNICIPALITY OF FOJNICA           Population: 14,600
Protect: Construction of the Water-Supply System Bakovici, I Phase (DM206,597.98)
Project Description: The following facilities were constructed: Bakovici and Stange water intakes, soil
drains I and II, hole, cessation chambers I and II. Complete assembly of the soil and cessation
chambers has been installed. A 1430 m long pipeline, 3" and 4", made of PEHD pipes with "zibo"
joints has been laid.
Project Impact: Before the war, Fojnica had about 16,600 population. Water capacity was 7-8 V/s.
During the summer, water cuts lasted for 14 hours per day. After the project, another 1,500 population
were provided with water. Water capacity has been increased from 7-8 I/s to 32 I/s. There are no water
cuts during the summer.
MUNICIPALITY OF FOJNICA           Population in the Municipality: 11,460
Population in the Town: 4,900
Project: Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of the Water-Supply System Fojnica (DM3,646,209.31)
Project Description: Construction of the Fojnica water tank, Luka water tank, and the construction of a
7000 m long pipeline from the Tovariste water tank Tovariste to the Fojnica water tank.
Project Impact: Water capacity of 70 I/inhabitant/day have been increased to 300 I/inhabitant/day.
Sufficient quantities of water have been provided for suburbs with about 3,000 population, so that the
total of 9,000 population are now provided with water. There are not water cuts.
- 21 -



MUNICIPALITY OF KISELJAK           Population: 22,000
Proiect: Reconstruction of the Water-Supply System Borina and Construction of the Water Tank Doci
(DM439,095.38)
Project Description: New quantities of water have been provided.
Project Impact: By reconstructing the Borina water-supply system, the capacity of water has been
increased to 27 I/s. By constructing the Doci water tank: more than 250 new households (1,000
population) in Borina and around 400 new households (1,600 population) in Doci have been provided
with water.
MUNICIPALITY OF KRESEVO            Population: 5,000
Project: Water-Supply System Scona (DM1,122,500.00)
Project Description: Construction of an interception of the Scona source with capacity of 12 I/s and a
supply pipeline to the town water tank with the associate structures (two cessation chambers).
Project Impact: During the summer, water cuts were lasting for 4-8 hours per day. The total capacity
of the system has been increased to 20 I/s. There are no water cuts during the summer.
MUNICIPALITY OF CITLUK              Population: 18,000
Project: Pump Stations and Water Tanks with Electrical and Mechanical Equipment and Electrical
Equipment and Works for the Remote Supervision and Control of the Water-Supply System
(DMI,165,721.45)
Proect Descrption: The following equipment has been provided for the four pump stations: - Gradnici
I pump station has been equipped with two pumps of 22 kW each, with capacity of 20 l/s;
Project Impact: Before the war, Citluk had about 15,000 residents of which 9,000 were supplied with
water from the town water-supply system. After the war, the population increased to 18,000. By
equipping the pump stations and water tanks, around 7,700 population have been provided with drinking
water.
MUNICIPALITY OF JABLANICA Population in the Town: 7,300
Project: Water-Supply System Jablanica (DM309,136.00)
Project Description: A 1334 m long pipeline has been constructed and two pumps provided.
Project Impact: Water capacity has been increased from 65 to 90 I/inhabitant/day, and covered the
requirements.
MUNICIPALITY OF KONJIC                   Population in the Municipality: 37,000
Population in the Town: 16,500
Project: Water-Supply System Konjic (DM3,588,151.77)
Project DescAption: This included the construction of a water-intake on the Ljuta source, 2972 m long
pipeline, Cemer water tank with two chambers, access road to the water tank and the rehabilitation of
the constructed section.
Project Impact: Konjic has been provided with another 153 I/s totaling 263 I/s. Suburb settlements are
now provided with water.
- 22 -



MUNICIPALITY OF NEUM              Population: 4,500
Proiect: Rehabilitation and additional construction of the Water-Supply System Gabela - Neum
(DM421,994.06)
Project Description: Rehabilitation works included the procurement and installation of two new pumps,
repair of one pump as well as the repair of the main pressure pipeline. Second phase of the Hutovo
water tank, V=500 m3, was constructed.
Proiect Impact: There were water cuts during the winter and especially during the summer because of
the insufficient capacity of the water tank and also due to constant break down of pump stations. There
are no water cuts now.
MUNICIPALITY OF RAMA              Population: 20,000
Project: Rehabilitation Works on the Water-Supply System and preparation of the documentation for an
Extension of the system (near the Rama Lake) (DM437,308.29)
Project Description: Complete rehabilitation of the electro-mechanical part of the pump station and the
rehabilitation of the facility. A new chlorinating system has been installed in the Krc water tank.
Project Impact: Water cuts were lasting 5-6 hours per day during the sumrner. Functioning of the
pumps with total capacity of 180 I/s is now automatic. There is a chlorinating system. Prerequisites to
continue constructing the system have been created. By completing the joining pipeline the high zone
has now been supplied with water.
MUNICIPALITY OF GRUDE                   Population: 16,350
Prolect: Rehabilitation of the Waste Water-Treatment System and additional construction of the Sewage
System (DM981,848.42)
Project Description: Rehabilitation works (construction, mechanical and electrical) and testing drive of
the waste water-treatment system in Grude (phase I, 2,500 ES) as well as the additional construction of
the sewage system.
Project Impact: During and upon completion of the testing, the quality of water influent and effluent has
been tested. The results of the test have shown that the quality of the waste water-treatment is
satisfactory.
MUNICIPALITY OF LJUBUSKI           Population: 35,000
Project: Construction of the Water-Supply System Vitina (DM4,400,377.78)
Project Description: The following works were completed: Vriostica water-intake with capacity of 265
Vs, Vitina pump station has been equipped with four new pumps and 90 Ils capacity each; a 3150 m
long pipeline and the Vitiana water tank.
Project Impact: Water cuts were lasting for 12-20 hours per day during the summer. By constructing
the above facilities, there are no longer water cuts.
MUNICIPALITY OF SIROKI BRIJEG Population: 28,000
Proiect: Rehabilitation of the Water-Supply System Siroki Brijeg and Procurement of Water-Supply
Material and Pipes. (DM614,249.74)
Project Description: Two new pumps with capacity of 2x95 kW have been installed. There is
automatic supervision and control of the water-supply system. The old electrical installations have been
- 23 -



replaced. Water-supply material for a 1470 m long pipeline was constructed.
Proiect Impact: Quality of water has improved, control and supervision of water distribution is easier,
work protection has been improved and consumption of electricity has been decreased. Water capacity
is 75 Ifs, as it used to be, but there are no water cuts.
CITY OF SARAJEVO
Proiect: SS-1 - Reconstruction and Rehabilitation of the Sarajevo City Sewage System
(DM4,696,599.12)
Project Description: Reconstruction and cleaning of part of the Sarajevo City sewage; rehabilitation of
the sewage facility, workshop and garages; reconstruction works on the working premises on the plant
in Butile and provision of machines and other equipment for the maintenance of the Sarajevo City
sewage.
Project Impact: The sewage network has been reconstructed in the most polluted streets in the city and
maintenance of the sewage network has improved with the modem equipment.
CANTON SARAJEVO
MUNICIPALITY OF ILIDZA - Settlement of Dobrosevici
Population in the Settlement: 2,020
Project: Water-Supply System Dobrosevici (DM321,723.65)
Proiect Description: Construction of the first phase of the water-supply system. Construction of the
distribution pipeline and construction of the pump station Bojnik with capacity of 20 I/s.
Project Impact: Construction of the primary distribution water-supply system connected to the city
water-supply system enabling water to be provided for residents in Dobrosevici. This allowed for the
return of displaced persons and refugees.
CANTON SARAJEVO
MUNICIPALITY OF TRNOVO            Population in the Municipality: 1,600
Population in the Villages: 250
Project: Water-Supply System in the Villages of Brda and Milisici, Bobovica and Ozimine
(DM362,257.92)
Proiect Description: Before the war, villages of Brda and Milisici used to have a local water-supply
system which was just partly functioning, while the villages of Bobovica and Ozirnine did not have a
water-supply system. This project included the construction of a gravitation system with four
interceptions, construction of a pipeline and reconstruction of the existing water tank for the villages of
Brda and Milisici, as well as the construction of a pumping system with 2 or 1 interception, construction
of 2 pump stations and 2 water tanks and a 2700 m long distribution pipeline for the villages of
Bobovica and Ozimine.
Project Impact: Sufficient quantities of water have been provided for population of all four villages
(120 I/inhabitant/day for the villages of Brda and Milisici, 130 I/inhabitant/day for the village of
Bobovica and 100 I/inhabitant/day for the village of Ozimine). Displaced persons and refugees have
returned to those villages.
MUNICIPALITY OF BOSANSKO GRAHOVO
Population: 800
Project: Rehabilitation of the Water-Supply System (DM429,764.78)
Project Description: The project included the rehabilitation of the following facilities: interception of the
- 24 -



Peci source, gravitation pipeline Peci - P. K. Gradina with associate structures, pump stations Vrba and
Gradina, Gradina and Basinac water tanks as well as a part of the distribution network.
Project Impact: After the war, the population decreased from 8,000 to 500. After the rehabilitation of
the water-supply system Bosansko Grahovo, almost 600 have been provided with water from the town
water-supply system. Those works have not solved the problems completely as during the summer,
water cuts last 12-24 hours per day because the capacity of the Peci and Vrba source decreases to 2-5
I/s.
MUNICIPALITY OF LIVNO                    Population: 40,500
Project: Reconstruction and additional construction of the Water-Supply System Livno
(DM752,912.26)
Project Description: Construction of the Duman pump station and the water-supply system for the
Centar II settlement. The Duman pump station provides water to the whole system. Funds for
procurement and electro-mechanical equipment have been provided through ECHO and Abruzzo
Region, Italy.
Proiect Impact: Constructed pump station has provided better rationalization of water consumption.
The water supply system for the new settlement of Centrar II, resulted in an additional 2, 000 persons to
be provided with water.
MUNICIPALITY OF TOMISLAVGRAD Population: 31,000
Project: Reconstruction of the Water-Supply System (DM539,441.03)
Proiect Description: B -2 well with capacity of 8 I/s has been connected to the system. New pipelines
have been constructed within the sub-system Stipanjici.
Proiect Impact: Connection of the B-2 well to the town system has increased capacity crom 40 V/s to 48
l/s. Prior to the project, there were water cuts which were lasting approximately 10 hours per day
during the summer. After the project, water cuts are extremely rare.
MUNICIPALITY OF GLAMOC                   Population: 4,200
Proiect: Organization Works on the Water Source Suvanj - Jakir (DM36,029.50)
Proiect Description: Water source protection zone and replacement of necessary fittings and
reinforcements in the reinforcing chamber.
Project Impact: The water source has been put in function according to regulations.
WORKS IN FLOOD PROTECTION
Total amount of all the works: (DM 1,319,523.23)
Projects have been completed in the following municipalities: Ljubuski, Novi Travnik, Livno, Mostar,
Capljina and Tomislavgrad. Most urgent works were cleaning of river channels and the rehabilitation of
facilities in the flood control systems. Part of the works related to the reconstruction of hydrologic
stations as well as the geodetic surveying of the Neretva river channel.
TECHNICAL DOCUMENTATION
Technical documentation for development programs has also been done within the project in over twenty
municipalities in the BiH Federation. Technical documentation is related to the additional construction
of water-supply and sewage systems and also for waste-related issues.
- 25 -



ACTION PLAN FOR FULL COST RECOVERY
SAMPLE
Municipality:
Water/sewerane situation prior to proiect (1977)
Estimated average water production                 m3/year
Estimated average water sale                       m3/year
Revenue from water sale
Capital costs:                   DM (                        US$)
Condition A. (for 1999/2000) - within 2 years recover all operations and maintenance costs
(O&M costs) - excluding capital repayment
O&M O&M include also costs of sewerage if exists costs include (in DM/year):
*   costs for staff (technical and administrative)     -DM
*   cost for electricity                               -DM
*   costs for chemicals                                -DM
*   costs for repairs and maintenance (material costs)  _DM
*   other kind of normal working costs                 -DM
TOTAL  :                        -DM
Water sale Water sale is total amount of billed water minus % of bad receivable bills
m3/year
Average Water price Average water price is average of price for domestics and industrials users, and
include also price for sewerage if exists :                  DM/m3 (water sale/all costs)
In the first year average water price will be       DM/im3
In the second year average water price will be      DM/m3
Condition B. (2001/2005) - Within 7 years recover all O&M costs and capital cost
*   O&M cost estimated (raised than for two first years)                  DM/year
*   Capital cost (repayment per year capital costs / 30 years)            DM/year
ALL COST                                                       _DM/year
Water sale:                  m3/year
Water price:                  DM/m3 (water sale/all costs)
In the third year water price will be           DM/m3
In the forth year water price will be           DM/m3
In the fifth year water price will be           DM/m3
- 26 -



In the sixth year water price will be          DWm3
In the seventh year water price will be        DMWm3
Remarks:
We, the undersigned, agree with the concept of full cost recovery from the beneficiaries of
water/sewerage services provided by the Water and Sewerage Works and support achievement of the
above indicators/targets for period 1999.-2005.
Director                                                              Mayor
Water & Sewerage Works
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Indicators of Development Outcome/Impact that were pre-defined and achieved include:
* Customers with 24 hours water service.
* VBH fully staffed and operational.
* Final designs and bidding documents completed.
* Sub-projects completed.
A logicalframework matrix was not originally done for this project.
-28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    LUS$ million
Part A. Equipment and Materials                        15.30            1.40             9
Part B. Urgent Works for Municipalities                46.80           21.76            49
Part C. Emergency Sector Planning                       0.60            0.60            100
Part D. Institutional Strengthening                     2.30            1.40            61
Part E. Project Preparation (Second Project)            5.00            0.10             2
Total Baseline Cost                                    70.00           25.26
Total Project Costs               70.00            25.26
Total Financing Required               70.00            25.26
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Categry      ICB        Procurement Method           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     10.20        2.50          3.60         8.80         25.10
(10.20)      (2.50)       (3.60)        (0.00)       (16.30)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.60        32.00         32.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.60)       (0.00)        (0.60)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         1.70         6.00          7.70
Consultants' Services     (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)        (1.70)
4. Procurement Agents'       0.00          0.00         0.10         1.50          1.60
Services
1-)      1 )        (O.1D        (0.00)        (0. I0
5. Recurrent Costs           0.00          0.00         1.30         1.70          3.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.30)       (0.00)        (1.30)
Total                     10.20         2.50         7.30         50.00        70.00
(10.20)       (2.50)      (7.30)        (0.00)       (20.00)
c                           Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         15.40         0.00         4.60         20.00
(0.00)       (15.40)      (0.00)       (0.00)        (15.40)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.80         0.60          1.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.80)       (0.00)        (0.80)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         2.40         1.30          3.70
Consultants' Services     (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.40)       (0.00)        (2.40)
-29 -



4. Procurement Agents'           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
Services
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Recurrenit Costs              0.00           0.00           1.40           0.00            1.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (1.40)         (0.00)         (1.40)
Total                         0.00           15.40          4.60           6.50           26.50
(0.00)        (15.40)         (4.60)         (0.00)        (20.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incrernental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Com ponent (in US$ million equivalent)
6 ~~~~~~~praisl Es00 00                      :     Y2;timate  Actual / atest Rtit:00 i ' tettt;; 
Part A. Equipment&        0.60      0.00      14.70      _a         0.00      0.60    133.3   0.0    4.1
Materials
Part B. Urgent Works for    18.10   0.00      28.70      17.70      0.00      5.30     97.8   0.0   18.5
Municipalities
Part C. Emergency         0.00      0.00      0.60       0.00       0.00      0.60     0.0    0.0   100.0
Sector Planning
Part D. Institutional     1.30      0.00       1.00      1.40       0.00      0.00    107.7   0.0    0.0
Strengthening
Part E. Project           0.00      0.00       5.00      0.10       0.00      0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
Preparation
(Second Project)
Total                    20.00      0.00      50.00     20.00       0.00      6.50    100.0   0.0    13.0
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was not undertaken for the project.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performnce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
2/96                           1   Sanitary Engineer
I   Financial Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/96                           I   Sanitary Engineer
I   Counsel
I   Disbursement Officer
I   Financial Analyst
I   Procurement Specialist
Supervision
5/96                           1  Sanitary Engineer                      S                  S
6/96                           2   Sanitary Engineer                     S                  S
12/96                          1  Sanitary Engineer                      S                 S
8/96                           1  Sanitary Engineer                      S                 S
7/97                           1  Sanitary Engineer                      S,                S
5/98                           1  Engineer                               S                  S
12/98                          1  Financial Analyst                     S,                 S
I  Sanitary Engineer                     S                  S
ICR
4/00                           1   Financial Analyst                     S                  S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                14.6                         40.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                     11.2                         30.9
Supervision                               70.2                        199.4
ICR                                        3.5                         10.0
Total                                     99.5                        280.6
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
M Macro policies                        O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
N Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
0 Physical                              *H OSUOM ON ONA
[ Financial                             OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
 Institutional Development             0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
D Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
2 Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
z Public sector management              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
MOther (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
OI Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHUT
O Supervision                                       OHS OS  O  U  OHLU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
LI Preparation                                      OHS OS  O  U  O HU
LI Government implementation performance            O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency,performance                 O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina: Water Sector Institution Building
Legal, Institutional, Financing/Cost Recovery
Water Quality and Human Resources Development Aspects, October 1997,
prepared by USAID/EHP Experts: Alan H. Schultz, Richard M. Kobayashi
- 35 -



