Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6829-BIH
TECHNICAL ANNEX
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
March 12, 1996
Agriculture and Urban Development Operations Divisions
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1, 1996)
Currency Unit  =  Bosnia and Herzegovina Dinar (BHD)
100 BHD   =  US$0.67
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH             Bosnia and Herzegovina
CY             Calendar Year
DC             Direct Contracting
EBRD           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC             European Commission
EC             European Commission
FY             Fiscal Year (of the World Bank)
GPN            General Procurement Notice
GSP            Gross Social Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IMF            International Monetary Fund
IMG            International Management Group
IS             International Shopping
LIB            Limited International Bidding
MAWRF          Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Government Organization
NS             National Shopping
PA             Procurement Agent
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
TA             Technical Assistance
TFBH           Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
VBH            Vodoprivreda BiH
WHO            World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
A.  BACKGROUND  .................................................   1
Sector Organization   ..............................................    1
Sector Issues and Policies ...........................................    1
Bank Pre-war Involvement in the Sector ...................................    2
B.  BANK  RESPONSE  AND  STRATEGY   ...................................   3
Sector Recovery Program   ...........................................    3
C.  THE  PROJECT    .................................................    6
Project Objectives   ...............................................   6
Project Description  ...............................................   6
Project Cost and Financing Plan .......................................   7
Financial and Economic Justification  ...................................    10
Environmental Aspects   ...........................................    10
D. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION    .....................................    10
Project Organization  .............................................                                                        10
Project Implementation   ...........................................    11
Procurement  ..................................................    12
Disbursements  .................................................    16
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting   ....................................    18
Supervision Plan   ...............................................    18
APPENDIX
1.  Sector Strategy for Water & Waste Management in Bosnia and Herzegovina
2.   Equipment and Materials to be supplied under Part A  of the Project
3.   List of Benefitting Municipalities Under Part B of the Project
4.   Project Organization Chart
5.   Project Implementation Schedule
6.   Project Procurement Plan
7.   General Procurement Notice
8.   List of Supporting Documents in the Project File
MAP IBRD 27767






Technical Annex
Page 1
A. BACKGROUND
1.  The massive movements of population, and the concentration of people in those parts of Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BH) considered safer than others, have resulted in major problems in the delivery of basic
water, sanitation and solid waste services to the population. Water supplies in many urban centers are
grossly inadequate for the number of people requiring services, leaving many people suffering from
serious privation. Waterborne diseases are becoming increasingly common, water service is intermittent
and water contamination from insufficiently treated wastewater remains a constant hazard. Furthermnore,
arrangements for the disposal of solid waste have almost collapsed, bringing new health hazards to
citizens.
2.  Bosnia and Herzegovina (the State, comprising the Bosniac-Croat Federation and the Republic of
Srpska) estimates the total sector requirements for restoration of service to prewar levels and upgrading
to meet changed conditions at $950 million. Taking into consideration the implementation capacity of
the existing institutions, the Bank has proposed a 3-year US$380 million program that would be
implemented with three separately financed projects. The proposed Project would be the first one in the
program. It comprises equipment supply, urgent works, strategic planning, institutional strengthening
and preparation of the next project at an estimated cost of $70 million and would target needs in the
Federation. The second and third projects would address needs in both the Federation and the Republic
of Srpska.
Sector Organization
3.  Federal Level. The responsible Ministry is the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Forestry (MAWRF). The MAWRF sets policies and standards and recommends legislation for all water
management functions. Implementation of the policy and legislation is the responsibility of Vodoprivreda
BH (VBH). This is the organization that is responsible for the rehabilitation of the sector and would
manage the proposed Project. VBH's headquarters are in Sarajevo. At present, there is only one
regional office which is located in Mostar. VBH has plans to establish two more regional offices in Tuzla
and Bihac.
4.  Municipal Level. Municipalities have primary responsibility for the provision of water supply,
sanitation and solid waste services in BH. They provide these services through komunalcos (municipal
service companies) that function like municipally owned joint stock companies. Tariffs must be approved
by the municipalities served, but finances are kept separate from municipal revenues. In the past project
proposals for investments generally were initiated by the komunalcos. If the projects were local and did
not require federal funding, they were planned and implemented by the komunalcos If they were
regional, they were implemented by VBH.
Sector Issues and Policies
5.  Water Supply. The quality of water supply service in BH has deteriorated sharply since 1991.
Whereas in the past, piped municipal water supply coverage in most urban areas was good (90% of
population served) and 24 hour service was the norm, now in many areas service is intermittent and water
quality has deteriorated. The main reasons for the deterioration of service have been: (i) increased
demand from the influx of refugees; (ii) existing water sources having been made inaccessible as a result
of the war; (iii) waste by consumers when water is available because meters are no longer read and bills
are no longer collected; (iv) excessive water leakages in transmission and distribution networks as a result
of lack of maintenance during the war; and (v) direct damage resulting from the war. The lack of
maintenance, the primary cause of today's problems, resulted from constraints on labor and capital during



Technical Annex
Page 2
the hostilities as well as the widespread practice of charging very little for water, so that funds were
generally not available for maintenance. Also, many technicians left, leaving water and sewerage works
organizations undermanned. For example, the Sarajevo Water and Sewerage Works is currently operating
with only one-third of their pre-war staff. While coverage in the pre-war period was good in urban areas,
most rural areas still relied on dug wells or vender supplied water. Piped water supply coverage in rural
areas is only 56% of the population. Thus, a timebound program to introduce water charges, taking into
account peoples' capacity to pay, seems to be an essential precondition for any major investments beyond
the initial "firefighting" effort.
6.  Sewerage. Prior to 1991, BH had made significant progress in developing water borne sewage
collection and treatment systems. Collection system coverage in urban areas averaged 70% as compared
to 90% for water supply. Less than 10% of the rural population was connected to a water borne
sewerage system. Most of the population relied on septic tanks which were satisfactory. Secondary
treatment of wastewater in modern treatment plants was the exception. The largest and most important
wastewater treatment plant is in Sarajevo, but few other towns have made investments beyond screening
and grit removal. As is the case for water distribution, lack of maintenance has also been a problem.
Leaky sewer systems with collectors dating back to 1920 create the potential for contamination of the
water system and nearby aquifers. This lack of maintenance and in some places war damage have
contributed to sewer pipe blockages, sewer pipe breaks, pumping station failures and treatment plant
shutdowns. In Vitez, Novi Travnik and Gornji Vakuf, the sewerage systems are in such poor condition
that reconstruction of the system is the only economic alternative. Geologically, the South-Western
region of BH with its sensitive "karst" area relies heavily on the use of groundwater for water supply,
calling for special efforts to avoid contamination of groundwater aquifers. Rivers used for water supply
are also being polluted from untreated discharges of municipal and industrial wastewater, but this is not
a new condition resulting from the war. Rivers most affected are the Sava, Bosnia, Litvia, Lasva and
Vrbas. There is much to be done towards improving wastewater collection and treatment. In the
proposed Project, priority would be given to the repair and rehabilitation of the collection systems.
7.  Solid Waste. Prior to 1991, most municipalities had fairly well organized waste collection services,
ensuring delivery of solid wastes to landfill sites or temporary disposal areas although few of the sites
were properly designed. Service has collapsed in many urban areas because most garbage trucks were
either destroyed or became inoperable during the war due to lack of maintenance and availability of spare
parts. Municipalities that had joint disposal sites before the war, today in some cases, refuse to share
facilities and many divided municipalities have lost access to garbage trucks and containers to handle their
refuse. In many urban areas, restoration of dependable solid waste collection service is as critical as
improving water supply services.
Bank Pre-war Involvement in the Sector
8.  The Bank made 28 loans to BH as a former Republic of Yugoslavia, two of which included water
and sanitation components. They were: (i) Ln 1263 Sarajevo Water and Wastewater Project; and (ii)
Ln 2233 Tuzla Region Water and Environmental Project. The two loans totalled $51 million. The
Sarajevo project comprised rehabilitation and expansion of the water distribution networks and the
construction of a wastewater treatment plant (This plant was damaged during the war and requires
extensive repairs to be placed in operation). The Tuzla project increased production capacity and
provided for a major interceptor to convey wastewater to the site of a proposed wastewater treatment
plant. The wastewater treatment plant, also included in the project, was not built because of a shortage
of counter-part funds. Components that were completed in each project were well executed. In 1990,
BH while still a part of Yugoslavia, opened discussions with the Bank about possible financing of several
regional water supply systems. These discussions were suspended with the breakup of Yugoslavia in
1991.



Technical Annex
Page 3
B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
Sector Recovery Program
9.  The sector recovery program for BH is based on planning carried out by the Federation, the
Republic of Srpska, the International Management Group (IMG) and the World Health Organization
(WHO). The IMG was established in 1993 by the European Union to provide technical assistance to the
Federation and the Republic of Srpska for the restoration of war damaged infrastructure. The Federation's
planning is based mostly on requests for assistance received from municipalities and local sector operating
organizations. IMG and the WHO have carried out a limited number of pre-feasibility studies for water
supply rehabilitation projects in Federation municipalities and have carried out inventories of needs in the
Republic of Srpska. The program is designed to be implemented in three years through three phased
country-wide projects. The first project would comprise urgent works, the second project rehabilitation
works, and the third project system upgrading works.
10. The objectives of the program are: (i) to meet the immediate needs of the affected population; (ii)
to return water management facilities to pre-war conditions; (iii) to make selected improvements that are
of high priority; and (iv) to help establish the institutions needed to sustain the sector over the long term.
The cost of the program is estimated at $380 million (which works out at approximately $115 per capita
for the population of 3.3 million in the BH).  The implementation period is three years. A cost
breakdown is in Table 1.



Technical Annex
Page 4
Table 1: Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Management Program
(US$ million)
Water Supply
Urgent Works                                         38
Rehabilitation                                       66
Upgrading                                            86
Subtotal                                            190
Sewerage
Urgent Works                                         13
Rehabilitation                                       44
Upgrading                                            10
Subtotal                                             67
Solid Waste
Urgent Works                                          9
Rehabilitation                                       17
Upgrading                                             8
Subtotal                                             34
Irrigation
Urgent Works                                          0
Rehabilitation                                        3
Upgrading                                             8
Subtotal                                             11
Flood Control & Drainage
Urgent Works                                          0
Rehabilitation                                       15
Upgrading                                            10
Subtotal                                             25
Vodoprivreda Policy, Planning & Development
Water Management Strategic Plan                       1
Water Management Master Plan                          3
Institutional Development                             5
Salaries & Equipment                                 21
Subtotal                                             30
Project Management, Engineering & TA                     23
11.    Under the first project, top priority would be given to urgent works ($60 million)'. The proposed
works would deal with the most serious and urgent needs of the population which can be met quickly
(i.e., replacement of tools, equipment and repair materials lost or expended since 1991 by local operating
organization, works which do not require a major lead time for the final design or supply of equipment).
For water supply ($38 million), the Project would provide maintenance equipment to local water works
and make critical on-site repairs of broken water distribution pipes and temporary repairs to water
I  Does not include US$10.0 million in engineering, planning and recurrent costs.



Technical Annex
Page 5
treatment plants and pumping stations to ensure that clean water is delivered to consumers. For sanitation
($13 million), the urgent works would cover the provision of equipment for unblocking sewer pipes and
the replacement of critical sections of collectors in places where the most serious health hazards have been
identified. For solid waste ($9 million), the works would cover the supply of trucks and equipment as
well as the development of some landfills where needs are identified as critical and major health risks are
assessed.
12.   Following the startup of the first project, rehabilitation works requiring a longer lead time and
more careful preparation would be phased in through a second project ($145 million). For water supply
($66 million), the works would involve repairs to pumping stations, replacement of water mains,
installation of valves and control structures, and setting up stocks of spare parts. For sanitation ($44
million), almost 60% of the required works would be for Sarajevo ($30 million) where a major effort to
restore the sewerage network to its pre-war condition would be implemented through jetting to remove
blockages, network reconstruction, replacement of pumping equipment and repair of the Sarajevo waste
water treatment plant. The Trnovo waste water treatment plant upstream of Sarajevo would also be
repaired ($8 million). The operation of this plant is important because Trnovo is upstream of Sarajevo
and its sewage if not treated could endanger the quality of Sarajevo's drinking water supply. For solid
waste disposal ($17 million), major landfills would be improved and garbage trucks distributed to the
larger municipalities. For irrigation ($3 million), damaged systems serving consumers that are prepared
to use the water most effectively would be rehabilitated. Finally, for flood control and drainage ($15
million) systems where human life is most at risk would be rehabilitated.
13.   The third project would comprise system upgrading works ($122 million) which would be
introduced in areas where systems are operational but in serious need of upgrading either because their
economic life is coming to an end or because outdated technology is causing unacceptably high operating
costs or inadequate performance. In the water supply sector ($86 million), piped water supply would be
extended to unserved populations, water production and treatment facilities would be expanded, water
distribution networks would be reinforced and administrative buildings would be upgraded. For
sanitation ($10 million), primary treatment plants would be constructed where health and environmental
benefits are clearly identifiable. For solid waste ($8 million), the Project would extend the rehabilitation
project actions in land fills and equipment to further locations. For flood control and drainage ($10
million) the level of protection of existing systems where the benefits exceed the cost by a wide margin,
would be increased. For irrigation ($8 million) the project would continue the work started under the
Rehabilitation Project.
14.   In addition to the investments described above, it would be necessary to provide funds in all three
projects for recurrent costs of the local operating organizations and to help establish and build up sector
institutions at the level of the republic and the regions. This would support the new structure of the
country emerging from the peace negotiations. Clearly significant amounts of equipment (vehicles, office
equipment, computers, etc.) will be needed to support this investment effort and the future management
and development of the sector. The estimated cost of these activities and needs over the three year period
is $30 million. This amount would also permit studies in water management of key river basins to be
conducted as well as some basic work on water strategy planning. Such studies have been identified by
government engineers as sorely lacking and necessary to establish the coherence of the water management
effort. The cost of these studies within the $30 million allowance is estimated to be $4 million. In
addition an allocation of $23 million to cover the costs of project management, engineering and technical
assistance has been included. Out of the $53 million, $10 million would be spent under the first project,
$25 million under the second project and $17 million under the third project.



Technical Annex
Page 6
C. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
15.   The deterioration of the water, sanitation and solid waste infrastructure as a result of the war has
been described above. Full recovery to pre-war conditions will take time. However, there are some
actions that can improve service quickly and remove risks to public health. Also, actions must be taken
now to prepare for those works that will take more time to implement and to start making the institutional
changes that will result in long term sustainability of the sector. These are the objectives of this Project.
Project Description
16.    To meet these objectives, the Project would comprise five parts. (i) the supply of equipment and
materials; (ii) urgent works for the provision of water supply sanitation and solid waste services in
municipalities; (iii) emergency sector planning; (iv) institutional strengthening through the provision of
technical assistance, training and recurrent cost financing; and (v) the preparation rehabilitation and
upgrading type projects for implementation under a second project. Each part of the Project is described
in detail as follows:
17.    Part A. Supply of Eguipment and Materials (US$ 15 million equivalent). During the war, much
rolling stock and construction equipment used for maintenance and repair was either destroyed, stolen
or stopped working for lack of spare parts. Also, pipes, fittings, repair materials and small tools
maintained in reserve for emergency repairs were either destroyed or used up without replacement. Since
the war's end, many utilities have identified urgent repair works that could be carried out with their own
maintenance personnel if they had the materials. This component would be aimed at meeting all these
needs. The needs of operating organizations serving about 40 municipalities would be met under this
component. Equipment and materials under this component would only be provided to municipalities that
have demonstrated that they have sufficient resources to use them without additional financial assistance.
A list of the first 12 municipalities selected to be assisted under this part of the Project and their needs
is in Appendix 2.
18.    Part B. Urgent Works for the Provision of Water Supply, Sanitation and Solid Waste Services
for Municipalities (US$47 million equivalent). Many of the water supply and sewerage systems in Bosnia
suffered both direct damage from shelling or indirect damage from lack of maintenance. Also, shifts in
population have resulted in increased demands being put on some systems while others have seen a
decrease in demand. The situation in Sarajevo is typical of that found in many other smaller cities.
Water service is intermittent with some areas of the city only receiving water for an hour or so every
other day. Because of the low system pressures, the upper floors of some apartment buildings receive
no water at all. Also, when consumers have water pressure, their is no incentive to conserve it because
meters are either broken or not read. As a result of all these deficiencies, system losses exceed 50% of
production. The sewage collection system also suffers from neglect. Back-ups into buildings and the
flooding of streets with sewage are common occurrences. This component would comprise repair and
rehabilitation type works (including goods, consultants' services and commercial services) aimed at
reducing these problems in Sarajevo, Zenica, Tuzla, Travnik, Bihac and 15 other priority municipalities.
Typical works to be undertaken in all the municipalities are as follows:
*      Rehabilitation of well field and pumping stations to restore capacity
*      Rehabilitation of booster pumping stations



Technical Annex
Page 7
*     Investigation and repair and/or replacement of leaking pipes and appurtenances in the water
distribution network
*     Investigation and replacement of leaking service connections
*     Testing, repair and/or replacement of customer water meters
*     Cleaning of the sewage collection system
*     Replacement of damage sewer pipes
19.   A list of the municipalities from which the 20 municipalities comprising Part B of the Project
would be selected is in Appendix 3.
20.   Part C. Emergencv Development Plan for the Water Management Sector (US$0.6 million
equivalent). The planning done to date for the reconstruction of the water management sector by IMG
and the WHO is only partially complete. Also, these plans have been prepared in isolation so that it is
difficult to determine priorities. The emergency development plan would inventory every water and
sewerage and solid waste system serving the Federation's 70 municipalities, assess needs and recommend
solutions to overcome existing problems. Alternative solutions would be evaluated. The final result
would be a prioritized list of interventions integrated into an overall plan for all 70 municipaliLies.
Emergency planning for Sarajevo and Mostar has already been completed; therefore, they are not
included in the proposed study; however, their projects would be integrated into the final project priority
list resulting from the plan.
21.   Part D. Institutional Strengthening (US$2.0 million equivalent). This component would have
two parts. The first part would comprise training. At the Federation level, the training would focus on
strategic planning, sector organization and project management. An important aspect of the training
would focus on private sector involvement for the provision of municipal water, sanitation and solid waste
services, starting with solid waste collection.  Training in the financial control of projects and
bookkeeping for the financial staff would be an important part of the project management training. At
the municipal level, the focus would be on project management, financial management, maintenance
management, computer skills and the reduction of unaccounted-for water. Twinning arrangements with
water and sewerage works organizations in donor countries would be used to the maximum extent
possible. The second part of the Project would provide financing of incremental operating costs for VBH
and the municipalities to implement and start up the Project.
22.   Part E. Preparation of the Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Rehabilitation Project (US$5.0
million equivalent). The scope of work would comprise final designs, procurement documentation and
the contracting of works scheduled for implementation under the second project. The works would be
identified in the Emergency Plan.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
23.   Proiect Cost. The total cost of the Project not including customs duties and taxes equals US$70.0
million equivalent. Duties and taxes could add another US$2.0 million. No physical or price
contingencies have been included given the nature the Project which can be modified to meet the funds
available. Project costs are given in Table 2. below.



Technical Annex
Page 8
Table 2: Project Cost Estimate a/
Part A. Equipment & Materials
Office Equipment & Computers               1,500
4WD Vehicles                               2,500
Trucks                                     5,200
Excavators                                 3,700
Repair Clamps                              1,000
Small Tools & Instruments                   600
Commercial Services                         800
Subtotal                                 15,300
Part B Urgent Works for municipalities
Well Field & PS Rehabilitation             6,000
Repair of Water System Leaks               7,900
Water Distribution Pipe Replacement       19,000
Service Connection Replacement             5,000
Meter Testing and Replacement              1,900
Cleaning of Sewage Collection System       1,400
Sewer Pipe Replacement                     4,000
Engineering & Administration               1.600
Subtotal                                46,800
Part C. Emergency Development Plan             600
Part D. Institutional Strengthening
TA & Training                              1,000
Equipment & Recurrent Costs                1,300
Part E. Project Preparation (Second Project)  5.000
a/  Costs are net of duties and taxes
24.    Financing Plan. The financing plan for the Project is in Table 3. The European Commission
(EC) has made available US$ 14.7 million equivalent in parallel grant financing that will be released in
two tranches. The first tranche is for US$ 9.8 million. The EC will manage the use of their funds and
the procurement undertaken with them in coordination with the Bank. The Netherlands Government has
committed $2.0 million equivalent in trust funds and direct aid for the Bank to administer in grant form,
and the Austrian Government has committed US$3.0 million for Part E of the Project. Of the total cost,
the Bank wouid finance US$ 20.0 million on IDA terms. Other donors that have expressed interest in
providing the remaining $30.3 million are the Council of Europe Social Development Fund and the
Government of Japan. The benefitting municipalities would be responsible for paying duties and taxes.
If the financing gap of $30.3 million is not met, the scope of Part B of the Project would be reduced from
20 municipalities to 8 and the number of projects to be prepared for the next project would reduced.
Because the Project is comprised of about 65 sub-projects in 50 different municipalities, each designed
as an independent project, the Project can be safely be expanded or reduced to meet the available
financing.



Technical Annex
Page 9
Table 3: Financing Plan
(US$ thousand) a/
Part A.   Equipment & Materials    647        14,700           -              -      15,347
Part B.   Urgent Works for
Municipalities          18,083           -          1225        27,500      46,808
Part C.   Emergency
Development Plan            -            -           575             -        575
Part D.   Institutional
Strengthening, TA &
Training
TA & Training               -            -           248           752       1,000
Equipment &
Recurrent Costs         1,270            -            -              -       1,270
Part E.   Project Preparation         -            -         3,000         2,000      5,000
a/     Costs are net of customs duties and taxes
b/    The Netherlands - $2,048,000; Austria - $3,000,000
25.   Onlending Arrangements. The State would be the Borrower and would onlend the proceeds of
the Bank Credit to the Federation. The Federation, through VBH as its agent, would use the proceeds
of the Bank Credit to provide credits to the benefitting municipalities under Part A, B and D of the
Project. During negotiations, it was agreed that the onlending terms would be 30 years maturity at zero
interest including 7 years grace. The credit agreements between the Federation and each municipality
would provide for a percentage of the amounts received to be forgiven. The percentage would be
determined as soon as the repayment conditions of all financing for the project is known. It would be
calculated by dividing the amount of grant financing in the financing plan by the total cost of the Project.
It is estimate that about 60% of each municipal credit could be forgiven. The cost of Parts C and E of
the Project would be paid by the Federation.
26.   Cost Recovery. Most water and sewerage works in the Federation have been unable to collect
for their services during the conflict. It would be difficult to reinstate charges in the short term, and it
is unlikely that any municipality would be able to contribute to the cost of the Project from any other
source except in kind. However, there should be some commitment by the benefitting municipalities to
obtain cost recovery in the future so that they can repay the credits. During negotiations, it was agreed
that each benefitting municipality would submit an Action Plan for increasing the revenues for water,
sanitation and solid waste collection services to a level that would permit recovery of operating costs in
two years and all costs, including depreciation, in seven years. It was further agreed that the submission



Technical Annex
Page 10
of the Action Plans would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit agreements between Federation
and each benefitting municipality.
Financial and Economic Justification
27.   The Project is primarily focussed on rehabilitation work, which has in general economic rates of
return in excess of 30 percent. These returns result from reduction in the large amounts of unaccounted
for water (estimated to be greater than 50 percent) and the related declines in usage of electricity and
chemicals. Moreover, the crucial rehabilitation effort at this juncture on severely deteriorated works will
save millions of dollars in investments that, in the absence of the Project, would have to be made to
totally or in large part replace systems for both water and wastewater.
28.   To ensure that only the most economically viable projects are undertaken, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that all municipal project components would be selected based on an assigned
priority. Criteria for assigning priorities, which would be applied sequentially, are as follows:
(i)    Deficiency in water quantity;
(ii)    Deficiency in water quality which constitutes a severe threat to public health;
(iii)   Large number of beneficiaries;
(iv)   Deficiency in water supply, sanitation or solid waste disposal which constitutes a
constraint to economic development; and
(v)    The proposed project includes cost-effective interconnection of systems.
Environmental Aspects
29.   The Project would have positive environmental impacts as a result of reduction in water losses,
a safer water supply, improved sewage collection and proper disposal of solid waste.  There is no
resettlement involved. In addition, all work would be monitored during supervision to ensure that there
is no degradation to the environment. In project components that include the extension or improvement
of sewage collection systems, special care will be taken to mitigate the effects of concentrating sewage
discharges so that surface water and ground water sources of public water supply are not endangered.
The Project has no significant negative environmental impact and has been placed in environmental
screening category "B".
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Organization
30.   The responsible Government Ministry is the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Forestry (MAWRF). MAWRF would have general oversight for the Project and set policy. VBH would
have overall responsibility for implementing the Project. Organizational changes and staffing of VBH
would be approved by MAWRF. Regarding the Project, MAWRF would approve recipients of the
financial assistance under Parts A, B and D of the Project and deal with any other related matters. The
MAWRF would also be responsible for negotiating the conditions of other potential donors. Decisions
about implementation of the Project would be left to VBH as the agent of the Federation.
31.   A special Projects Development Department has been established in VBH with the responsibility
of managing all reconstruction projects. The Projects Development Department Director would have
overall charge of the Project. Reporting to the Director would be two division heads--one for engineering
and one for research and development. The VBH Legislative Management Division would advise on



Technical Annex
Page I 1
legal matters and review contracts.  The Investments Department would be responsible for all
procurement and the Finance and Administration Department would oversee the financial management
of the Project. The VBH regional offices would be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the
Project in their respective areas. For purposes of the Project, the head of each VBH regional office
would report to the Project Development Department Director. VBH would be responsible for approving
all equipment requests from the municipalities benefitting from Part A of the Project and passing these
requests on to the EC project office in Sarajevo to procure and deliver. VBH would carry out the
procurement for its own equipment under Part A of the Project and all works and consulting services
under Part B of the Project. The municipalities would be responsible for supervising the contracts after
they are signed.
32.   As a result of the war, many managers and engineers have left VBH; and there is a shortage of
qualified personnel required for the task of managing the reconstruction program so that VBH needs
strengthening. To assist with the rebuilding and strengthening, VBH would hire five foreign advisors
on a full-time basis and short-term experts on an as needed basis under Part D of the Project. An
internationally experienced water operating company would be contracted to provide for the short-term
experts. Most of the assistance would be for advice in the area of project design and procurement.
33.   The Federation would like to encourage the development of the local construction and consulting
industry by seeing as much of the engineering and construction work contracted to local firms. The local
consulting firms are for the most part firms comprising individuals who used to work for the design
institutes that did most of the engineering work in former Yugoslavia. Individuals and small firms from
Croatia and Slovenia are also expected to be competitive and win contracts for some of the engineering
consulting assignments. Local contractors and contractors from Croatia and Slovenia would have good
prospects of winning a large percentage of the works contracts because of their local knowledge and the
fact that most of the bid packages would be too small to interest foreign contractors. The local
contractors would comprise recently formed firms founded by local entrepreneurs who use to work for
the large construction institutes that did most of the work in former Yugoslavia. Many of these new
groups are supported technically and financially by foreign construction companies.
34.   A project organization chart for the Project is in Appendix 4.
Project Implementation
35.   The equipment and materials to be supplied to the municipalities selected under Part A of the
Project, Supply of Equipment and Materials, would be procured by the VBH Procurement Division. To
benefit from this part of the Project, the municipalities would be required to make a formal request to
VBH (this has been done), to sign a credit agreement with the Federation and to confirm receipt of the
goods when they arrive.
36.   The municipalities selected for assistance under Part B, Urgent Works for Municipalities, would
follow the same procedures as in Part A. VBH would contract and provide general oversight of the
works, and the municipalities manage implementation of the contracts. Small works with an aggregate
value of about US$2.0 million would be carried out with the municipality's own staff and day laborers
under force account. However, most work would be performed under contract. The VBH regional
offices would verify the works and approve payments. The funds would be disbursed from the VBH
main office in Sarajevo. Contractors under the supervision of the municipality komunalcos would
implement the larger works. The VBH Sarajevo office would contract the large works. The regional
offices would contract the small works. For force account work, agreements specifying the scope of
work and the terms for reimbursement would be entered into between VBH and the executing
municipality.



Technical Annex
Page 12
37.   A typical project selected for implementation under a works contract would be implemented in
the following manner. The VBH regional office in consultation with the municipality would define the
scope of the project. The VBH regional office would then contract a consultant (a local consultant if
qualified) to prepare designs and bidding documents under their direction but in consultation with the
municipality. When the documents have been approved by the municipality, the VBH regional office
would carry out the bidding and the bid evaluation. However, the municipality would have an
opportunity to comment on the results of the evaluation before the award is made. The VBH regional
office would negotiate and sign the final contract and approve payments to the contractor. The
municipality through its komunalco would supervise its execution.
38.   Project Implementation Schedule. Implementation of Parts A and C of the Project, provision of
equipment and preparation of the National Emergency Plan, are already in progress. Orders have been
placed for computers, office equipment and vehicles to reestablish VBH. Their headquarters were
completely destroyed during the war. Other parts of the Project are still undergoing preparation. All
project funds should be committed in 1996. The Project is expected to take two years to implement. The
project completion date is June 30, 1998. The proposed credit closing date is June 30 1999. A project
implementation plan and schedule is in Appendix 5.
Procurement
39.   The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below and are in line with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995. The proposed
project procurement plan is in Appendix 5. In case of parallel financing (such as funding by the
European Commission or by bilateral donors), the applicable procurement procedures of the respective
financiers would be applied. To respond in a timely fashion to the post-war emergency situation in the
Federation, the below-described procurement methods would be used for Bank-financed procurement.



Technical Annex
Page 13
Table 4: Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
1.  Goods                                      -           -          577      32,000       32,577
(-)         (-)        (577)         (-)       (577)
2. Works
2.1     Contracted                        10,300       2,500         1,600      8,740       23,140
(10,300)     (2,500)      (1,600)         (-)    (14,400)
2.2     Force Account                          -           -         2,000          -        2,000
(-)         (-)      (2,000)         (-)     (2,000)
3.    Consultant Services b/                   -           -         1,683      6,000        7,683
(-)        (-)       (1,683)         (-)     (1,683)
4.    Commercial services c/                   -           -           70       1,530        1,600
(-         (-           (70)         (-         (70)
5.    Recurrent Costs d/                       -           -         1,270      1,730        3,000
(-)         (-)      (1,270)         (-)     (1,270)
.           .. ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... 
............  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .    ..   ...
NBF = Not Bank Financed
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
OTHER = International Shopping (0.5 m); National Shopping (0.1 m); Small Works (1.6 m)
a/ Figures in parenthesis represent Bank financing.
b/  Consultant services consist of a number of individual consultants. Their services would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for selection of consultants.
c/  Commercial services comprise procurement agent fees, transport and inspection of goods. These serv ices would be procured in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for the selection of consultants.
d/  Recurrent costs include office rent, utilities, local staff cost, chemicals and expendable materials.
40.      Goods.  The aggregate value of goods to be procured with Bank funding would not exceed
US$0.6 million. Therefore, procurement procedures for goods would be limited to International
Shopping (IS) and National Shopping (NS). Direct Contracting (DC) for goods would be provided for
in the Credit Agreement, but at the present no DC of goods is anticipated. For IS, NS and DC, the limits
and procedures would be as follows:
(a)      IS/NS. International Shopping  (IS) would  be used  for procuring  equipment and materials
estimated to cost between US$200,000 and US$2.0 million per contract. Awards would
be based on comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers in two
countries. A sample document, including contract conditions, has been prepared by the
Bank and would be used for IS contracts. National Shopping (NS) would be used for
goods available within BH, such as office furniture and supplies, up to an estimated cost
of US$ 200,000 per contract with at least three quotations from national suppliers. The
aggregate amount of Bank-financed goods using IS would not exceed US$0.5 million.
The aggregate amount of Bank-financed goods bid using NS would not exceed US$0.1
million.
(b)      DC.    Direct Contracting (DC) would be used for proprietary items, for reasons of compatibility
or standardization, as well as for reasons of timing. No DC is foreseen for those goods



Technical Annex
Page 14
financed by the Bank. Any DC during project implementation would require prior Bank
approval. Existing contracts would not be extended. At the time of project appraisal,
no DC was anticipated.
41.   Contracted Works. For works carried out under contract, the following procedures would be
followed:
(a)   ICB.  ICB would apply for works contracts estimated to cost more than $5.0 million each.
Regarding advertising procedures, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be
published in the "Development Business" and the local press in March 1996 (see
Appendix 6). The notice would include information about the nature of goods and
services to be procured and invite interested and eligible contractors to send their
expressions of interest to VBH. A specific advertisement for prequalification and
individual contracts would appear in the local press. Copies of the advertisement would
be sent to contractors who respond to the GPN. The Bank's Standard Bidding Document
for Works would be used. Any modification would be approved by the Bank prior to the
documents being issued. Bid and payment currency would be limited to one currency
widely used in international trade. The aggregate amount of Bank-financed works bid
using ICB would not exceed US$10.3 million.
(b)    NCB. Because foreign contractors are unlikely to be interested in small works that would be
widely dispersed, National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be used for works
contracts between US$1.0 and US$5.0 million per contract.  Interested foreign
contractors would be allowed to tender for NCB contracts. Contractors for NCB would
be prequalified. The procedure would differ from the Bank's normal procedure in that
an open registry of prequalified contractors would be kept and based on information
submitted contractors would be prequalified by category of works and contract price. A
prequalification notice would be put in the local press at least once during project
implementation but could be repeated if more firms are needed. The prequalification
document would be approved by the Bank. The ECA Region's sample document for
works using NCB dated September 1995 would be used for all tenders. The currency
of the bid and contract would be Deutsche Marks. Announcements of tenders would be
sent only to contractors on the registry that meet the minimum requirements of the
tender. The aggregate amount of Bank-financed works bid using NCB would not exceed
US$2.5 million.
(c)    SWP. Small Works Procurement (SWP) would be used for works contracts estimated to cost
less than US$1.0 million per contract. Contracts would be lump sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation would include a detailed description of
the works, the basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of
agreement and drawings when relevant. The award would be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price. The aggregate amount of Bank-financed Works bid using SNCB
would not exceed US$1.6 million.
42.   Force Account Works (FA). For the installation of equipment and minor repair work within the
capability of the staff of municipal water, sanitation and solid waste organizations and valued at less than
$150,000, FA would be allowed. To qualify, organizations would need to demonstrate that they have
the equipment, capacity and experience to undertake the work. The total value of FA permitted any one
municipality would be limited to US$0.5 million. FA work would be paid on the basis of standard unit
prices developed from the bids received for similar work carried out by private contractors. The



Technical Annex
Page 15
aggregate amount of Bank-financed works bid using FA would not exceed $2.0 million.
43.   Recurrent Costs, Tuition and Travel. VBH and other municipalities that qualify for incremental
operating costs would be reimbursed monthly based on an approved program and budget. Tuition and
travel would be reimbursed based on actual expenditures. The aggregate amount of Bank-financed
recurrent costs, tuition and travel would not exceed US$1.3 million.
44.   Consultants and Commercial Services. Consultant and commercial services would be procured
in accordance with Bank guidelines which shall include both competition, sole sourcing and the selection
of individual consultants. The sole sourcing would be justified in each case. Such justifications may be
the timing constraint, continuity, unique expertise, and lack of candidates given the situation in BH.
Follow-up assignments would be permissible to the extent that they are indicated in the initial Terms of
Reference for the assignments. The aggregate value of Bank-financed consulting and commercial services
is estimated at US$1.7 million of which US$1.0 million would be through shortlisting of firms and
US$0.7 million would be for individual consultants, representing assignments of specialized and short
term nature.
45.   Procurement Implementation Capacitv. At present, VBH lacks the capacity to undertake the
procurement under the project without outside assistance. Local consultants under the direction of VBH's
Project Development Department, would carry out all the procurement for works under the Project. To
instruct its own staff and the local consultants, VBH will seek the assistance of the procurement advisors
engaged for the Emergency Recovery Project (approved by the Board on February 29, 1996). Because
most of the goods would be procured by the contractors for the works, procurement agents (PA) for most
of the goods to be procured under the project would not be required. In cases where it is necessary to
procure goods separately, VBH would seek the assistance of the procurement unit of the Emergency
Recovery Project or employ an individual procurement consultants on a contract by contract basis.
46.   Prior and Post Bank Review of Procurement Documents. Bank Standard Bidding Documents
would be used for ICB procurement packages for works. The Bank Standard Prequalification Document
would be used to prequalify works contractors for ICB. A simplified prequalification document prepared
by VBH would be used to prequalify works contractors for NCB. Sample bidding documents prepared
by the Bank would be used for NCB and IS. These documents would be used also for procurement under
the Project. All ICB contracts for works, the first three contracts for NCB and IS, all contracts for DC
and agreements for works to be carried by FA would be subject to the Bank's prior review as stated in
the Procurement Guidelines. Also, prequalification documents for both ICB and NCB would be reviewed
prior to being issued, and the results of all prequalification results would be subject to prior review. For
consultants' contracts, the Bank's standard form for consultants' contracts would be used. Terms of
reference for all consultant contracts with firms above US$100,000, contracts with individuals above
US$50,000 and sole source contracts, if any, would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Post reviews
of procurement actions would be carried out on a quarterly basis by Bank supervision missions.
47.   Local Control of Procurement. In order to ensure transparency in procurement arrangements for
the Project, especially because there would be a large number of small civil works contracts, likely to
be financed by local firms, during negotiations agreement was reached with the Borrower that they would
cause the Federation to establish a water management sector Procurement Review Committee. The
Committee would be responsible for ensuring compliance with Bank and donor procurement procedures
and approving all contract awards. Membership of the Committee would comprise the Director of VBH
who would serve as secretary, an Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry who
would serve as chairman and three other members, one of which would be from a municipality
participating the Project. IMG would advise the Committee on technical and



Technical Annex
Page 16
procurement matters, as needed. Organizationally, the Committee be an adjunct to the Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry with the Minister responsible for making the appointments.
Disbursements
48.   The estiniated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 5. Disbursements are expected to be
completed within a period of three years from the date of effectiveness. The Bank credit would finance
the categories of expenditures outlined in Table 6. In the case of works, to ensure that Bank funds would
not be used to finance taxes, it was agreed during negotiations that the disbursement percentage for works
specified in the Credit Agreement would specifically exclude disbursements for taxes. The costs for
works included in the project cost estimate were calculated on the assumption that no taxes are collected
for works. During negotiations, it was agreed that if any change occurs which has the effect of levying
and collecting taxes in relation to works, the disbursement percentage for works would be reduced by
amendment to the Credit Agreement.
Table 5: Disbursement Schedule
....JllliS.E S
Semi-Annual      Amount      2.3      2.5      5.4      4.5       3.6      1.5      0.2
Percent    11.0    13.0    27.0       22.0     18.0      8.0       1.0
Cumulative       Amount      2.3      4.8    10.2      14.7      18.3    19.8      20.0
Percent    11.0    24.0    51.0       73.0     91.0    99.0    100.0



Technical Annex
Page 17
Tab'" 6: Disbursement Categories
....... .   ...   ................j        .         ....  ,.
0 .0.                                                            ,:... e . . W  ,,
.~~~~~~~~.
(1) Works under Part B of the    5,000          100% (net of taxes)
Project
(2) Force Account under Part     2,000          100% (net of taxes)
B of the Project
(3) Goods under Parts A and      9,730      100% of foreign
B of the Project                        expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory)
and 85 % of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(4) Consultants' Services          900                100%
under Part B, C and D of
the Project
(5) Commercial services            370                100%
under Parts A and B of the
Project
(6) Recurrent costs, Tuition     1,000                100%
and Travel Expenses
under Part D of the Project
Unallocated                  1,000
.*.                             .  *.  . ..-..-00  . .;  . .*.*.*..iS..-.. ...
49.    Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Recipient would establish,
maintain and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in U.S. dollars in the
Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina or a commercial bank. The authorized allocation of the Special
Account would be limited to US$ 2.0 million, representing about four months (average) disbursement of
the Bank's share of estimated expenditures expected to be paid from the Special Account. Replenishment
applications would be forwarded to the Bank at least every three months, and would include reconciled
bank statements as well as other appropriate documents.
50.    Statement of Expenditures. Disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for the following types of expenditures:
(i)    expenditures for goods under contracts not exceeding US$2,000,000 equivalent;
(ii)    expenditures for works under contracts not exceeding US$1,000,000 equivalent;
(iii)   expenditures for employment of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent;
(iv)    expenditures for commercial services under contracts not exceeding US$100,000
equivalent;



Technical Annex
Page 18
(v)    expenditures for individual consultants under contracts not exceeding US$50,000;
(v)    expenditures for force iccount works;
(vi)   expenditures for employment of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent; and
(vii)  incremental operating costs.
Detailed documents evidencing expenditures would be reviewed by VBH and made available for the
required audit as well as Bank supervision missions. Disbursements for contracts exceeding the above
limits would be made against presentation to the Bank of full contract documentation.
51.   Credit Closing Date. The Credit closing date would be June 30, 1999.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
52.   Accounts.  During negotianions, agreement was reached on the following arrangments for
accounting, auditing and reporting. Separate and auditable accounts would be established by VBH for
the Project. These accounts would include: (i) a record of all commitments and expenditures; (ii) a
record of withdrawals from all funding sources including the Bank Credit (Trust Fund); (iii) copies of
all disbursement requests and underlying documentation; and (iv) a record of transactions on the Special
Account and the copies of the bank statements on this account. Technical assistance has been included
under the Project to establish proper accounts and financial controlling procedures.
53.    Audits. The project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors and under terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank. Separate audit statements would be prepared for the Special Account
and for Statement of Expenditures. All audit reports would be made available to the Bank at the latest
six months after the end of the fiscal year. Project accounts would be maintained for one year after the
closing date.
54.   Reporting. VHB would prepare and furnish to the Bank a quarterly progress report showing the
status of implementation of the Project as well as a financial report in a format acceptable to the Bank.
Supervision Plan
55.   Project implementation would incorporate a large degree of flexibility in view of the fact that it
would need to adapt to rapidly changing circumstances in the country. Implementation progress would
be formally evaluated at mid-term, i.e. approximately 6 months after effectiveness. In addition, during
the first 6 months of implementation, the Bank's new Resident Mission in Sarajevo would continuously
supervise all initial project implementation steps, and would assist closely on matters requiring advice and
rapid decisions by the Bank. In particular, procurement and disbursements would require intensive
supervision.
Agreements Reached
56.   During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
a.     onlending arrangements and terms (para 25);
b.    the preparation of Action Plans by the benefitting municipalities for achieving full cost
recovery (para 26);
c.     criteria for the selection of municicipalities and projects (para 28);



Technical Annex
Page 19
d.    the establishment of a procurement review committee (para 47);
e.    the financing percentage for works (para 48); and
f.    accounting, reporting and auditing requirements (para 52, 53 and 54).






APPENDICES






APPENDIX 1
Page 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
Sector Strategy for Water f  Waste Management in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Issue              Short-Term Strategy       Long-Term Strategy          Reconstruction Program
Water Supply. Increased    Institute demand            Plan and implement    TA: Training ot local water works
service demand in excess    management and loss        new source             personnel in demiland management,
of capacity of existing    reduction programs in       development in areas   leiak detection and repair. Carrying
assets resulting from      areas with increased        were population        out of procurenmot (short-term and
influx of refugees to      population.                 increase is           long-term).
urban areas.                                           permanent.
Investment: Provide leak detection
equipment, repair materials and
replacement customer meters to
systems whose personnel participate
in training (short-term). Construct
new facilities to meet current and
long-term needs according to agreed
priorities (long-term).
Water Management.          Implement emergency        Implement permanent   TA: Training in maintenance
Deterioration of existing  repairs and replacements.   replacements.          management (long-term).
assets resulting from a    Carry out leak detection
combination of neglect     and repair programs.                               Investinent: Provide materials,
and war damage.                                                               tools and equipment (short-term) and
replace assets (long-term)
Water Supply and Solid     Make cooperation a          Make cooperation a     N.A.
Waste. Lack of             condition for assistance.   condition for
cooperation in ethnically                              assistance.
divided communities.
Sewerage. Inadequate       Implement emergency         Construct main         TA: Traiining of local sewer works
wastewater management.   repairs to existing           collectors and         personnel in sewerage collection
wastewater collection and    primary treatment    system  inspection and repair.
treatment systems.         plants in priority hot   Carrying out of procurement (short-
spots. Construct no    term and long-tertii).
secondary treatment
plants until coverage    Investment: Provide TV inspection
with primary plants is  equipment and repair equipment and
substantially          materials for collection systems
complete.              (short-term). Construct main
collectors and primary treatment
plants according to agreed priorities
(long-term).
Water Supply. Sewerage.    Provide 100% grants for     Gradually implement   TA: Carry out tariff affordability
Solid Waste and            emergency repairs and       affordable tariffs,    studies and develop an Action Plan
Irrigation. Insufficient   operating subsidies, where   until full cost       for eventually achieving full cost
cost recovery.             required until economy      recovery is achieved.   recovery (short-term). Implement
recovers. Operating                               Action Plan (long-term).
subsidies would have a
limited life.
Water Management.          Implement emergency        Implement a training    TA: Implementation of emergency
Weak institutional,        programs and carrying out   program. Gradually    programs. Carrying out of
financial and regulatory   planning for rebuilding of   replace management    procurement and training using
framework. Loss of         institutions and           consults with trained    management consultants or a large
experienced personnel.     establishing a new          locals. Carry out      water service company to strengthen
regulatory framework,      Action Plans for       local institutions (long-term and
including development of    institutional         short-term).
Action Plans. Design a     strengthening and
training program for       implementing new
sector managers.           regulations and
I policies.






APPENDIX 2
Page I
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
Equipment and Materials to be supplied under Part A of the Project
Organization/Municipality    | Population    | Requirements
Bihac Municipality                70,896  pipe, materials and equipment
Capljina Municipality             28,000  Pipes, fittings and repair materials
Livno Municipality                 4,000  Pipes, fittings and repair materials
Mostar Municipality              126,000  Pipes, fittings and repair materials
Orasje Municipality               28,000  Pipes, fittings and repair materials
Sarajevo Municipality            525,980  Vehicles, pipes and fittings for
network rehabilitation
Travnik Municipality              70,402  Equipment, pipes and fittings
Tuzla Municipality               131,861  Equipment, pipes and fittings
Unsko-Sanski Canton              100,000  Equipment, pipes and fittings
Vitez Municipality                28,000  Equipment, pipes and fittings
Zenica Municipality              145,577  Equipment, pipes and fittings
Vodoprivreda                           -  Office equipment and computers






APPENDIX 3
Page 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
List of Benefitting Municipalities Under Part B of the Project
MUNICIPALITY                 POPULATION
Sarajevo                           525,980
Zenica                             145,577
Tuzla                              131,861
Bihac                               70,896
Travnik                             70,402
Cazin                               63,406
Sanski Most                         60,119
Gracanica                           59,050
Zavidovici                          57,153
Lukavac                             56,830
Gradacac                            56,378 
Kakanj                              55,857
Zivinice                            54,653
Bugojno                             46,843
Visoko                              46,130
Jajce                               44,903
Konjic                              43,636
Gorazde                             37,505
Prozor                              19,601
Ravno                               20,000
Stolac                              18,845
B. Krupa                            15,135
N. Travnik                          11,520






APPENDIX 4
Page 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECr
Project Organization Chart
1*   U    0
. .
..... ..........i 






APPENDIX 5
Page 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
0
z
0
c0
I.I
A1,;I-                    -s --  I!
;2_Li': ~~~~~~~~~~~~' _:::_::_ IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
404 ! E L i s i04  
'E~~~~~~~~~~#-r                  -I
jU                                                  II~~~~~



APPENDIX 5
Page 2
0
z
0
C',
I
p
I
F
0.
LA..
-
0
z
0
Co
-                                                         w
-                                               ..L
-
*
p
-9
-I
-                                                                     IL
I
U  I                                                                        II.


U  I                     .!              flu
a                    w
a                    c    *    -=    =   3.-  =.
I II
I    i.            j.
*jI*  .!      I                               jIll
-        !Ui                 J  II          I                    II
a         I    ii  '                                          ii
U,  E   2 hiJ                       I
*                           t
*                           U
I-                          A-
-     1    Y        1    N    N    N    N    N    N    N    N    N
CEO    *    I-   W    *    a    -   N    c   4    EO



o3i   _  1    ]    |    ]    1tlSlt~~~~~~~~~~~     tow   w    w    w X
FA                                                       -" I'
*~~~~~1 l~ i         ev              X         e          Siii,
111 i]  I' ''   ''''"   "''    """"'''''                                    a
l                ..     Ii  I             ' 
KI -L                              I1II
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
9I
z
C                                                                            -
I _  __I ::
 ae
S XIcIN3ddV



o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
y~~~    a i  M  ___ .ig_   X  __    4 
,XF F . - -- I . .. ..... i4  -4 
Sit  111111-- iL I    i
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iz
_         I         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-.~~~~~~~~~ =
9 XIGNFlddV



oO a          *      e         0        0                     0             400    10     0 S
!'l~~    6l              S   4 'l  i!   i D    ;   ..   C   a -                                 s 'i   i
0~~~~~~~~                                                       a          sF8f       f  f
EL l r ~~~~.............,,.. . ............... ...... .. ..... ... ...................... .................. ......... .... ,...,,.............................................................   .
ox                                                                                   >~~~~~~~~0 -~~o
LI~~~~~~C
i]~~~ 8-   -                                                                                        1 8
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
01:~~~~ I   I __
co
SXIGNE[ddv



APPENDIX 5
Page 6
0
0
Ca
IL
p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
0
LL~~~~I
(0~~~~~;
E. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
110.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LI.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10



Appendix 6
Page 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
Project Procurement Plan
Cost,      Procure.       Bid       Contract    Contract    Contract
Bid Package                  US$'000       Method    Invitation   Submission     Sign      Complete
1   Computers & Office Equipment for VBH      400          is          1/96        2/96         3/96        5/96
2   Office Furniture for VBH                    50         NS          1/96        2/96         3/96        5/96
3   Vehicles for VBH                           200         1s          1/96        2/96         3/96        6/96
4   Computers & Office Equipment for OCs     1.100         NBF         3/96        4/96         5/96        8/96
5   Vehicles & trucks for OCs                5,300         NBF         4/96        6/96         8/96       11/96
6   Excavators for OCs                       5,600         NBF         4/96        6/96         8/96       11/96
7   Garbage Trucks for OCs                   2,500         NBF         4/96         6/96        8/96       11/96
8   Bacevo Well Field Equipment              1,700         NBF         5/96        6/96         7/96       11/96
9   Bacevo Civil Works                         600        SWSP         5/96         6/96        7/96       11/96
10  Pipes, Fittings, Repair Clamps &        12,800         NBF         5/96        7/96         9/96       12/96
Accessories
11  Small Tools & Instruments                 600          NBF         4/96        5/96         6/96        8/96
12  Bihac Water Distribution Network         1,900         NBF
Rehabilitation
13  Small Works (Multiple contracts <$1      8,900        NBF            -           -           -           -
Million)
14  Small Works (Multiple Contracts <$1      1,000        SWSP                                                      l
Million)
15  Sarajevo Water Distribution Network &   10,300         ICB         5/96        7/96         9/96        6/96
Service Connection Repair &
Rehabilitation
16  Testing & Replacement of Meters          1,500         NCB         5/96        7/96         9/96        6/96
17  Sarajevo Sewer Cleaning                  1,000        NCB          5/96        7/96         9/96        6/96
18  Emergency Development Plan                600          NBF         1/96         1/96        3/96       10/96
19  Engineering Services for Project           600         IC            -           -           -           -
Preparation & Supervision (Multiple
contracts with individual consultants<
$50,000 each)
20  Engineering Services for Project         1,000         SL          3/96        5/96         5/96        6/98
Preparation & Supervision (Current
project)
21  Engineering Services for Project         5,000         NBF           -           -           -           -
Preparation & Supervision (Multiple
contracts with individual consultants and
firms) (Future project)
22  Engineering Services for Sarajevo Water    500         NBF         5/96         6/96        6/96       12/97
& Sanitation Works
23  Commercial Services for equipping VBH      100          IC         3/96        4/96         4/96       12/96
24  Commercial Services (Multiple Contracts  1,500         NBF           -           -           -           -
with Procurement Agents for Purchase of
Goods)
25  Consultants for TA & Training              200         NBF



Appendix 6
Page 2
Cost,      Procure.       Bid       Contract    Contract    Contract
Bid Package                  US$'000       Method    Invitation   Submission     Sign      Complete
26  Twinning Partners (Travel & Expenses of    200         NBF
Experts & Local Staff)
27  Tuition, Travel & Expenses for Overseas    600         NBF
Training
28  Incremental Operating Costs              1,300         DOC
29  Small works by force account (Multiple   2,000         FA
jobs <$150,000)
NBF = Not Bank Financed
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
IS = International Shopping
NS = National Shopping
IS = Individual Consultant
SS = Sole Source for consultants' services
SL   Short Listing for consultants' services
CS = Consultants' services
DOC = Submission of Documentation
FA = Force Account
SWSP = Small Works through Special Procedures
TOTAL PROCUREMENT
Goods (procured separately)                    $15,300,000
Goods (procured as part of works)              $17,300,000
Works (contracted)                             $24,000,000
Works (force account)                          $ 2,000,000
Consultants' services                          $ 7,700,000
Incremental operating costs                    $ 1,300.000
Commercial services                            $ 1,600,000
Tuition, travel & expenses                     $   800.000
Total                                      $70,000,000



APPENDIX 7
Page 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
General Procurement Notice
The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina is expected to receive a credit from the World Bank
Trust Fund establish for supporting the emergency reconstruction program for the country. The proceeds
of the credit would be used for a proposed Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent Works Project.
The Government is also expected to receive loans and grants from other multilateral sources, such as the
European Union and several other bilateral donors.
The loans and grants mentioned above are intended to be used for emergency recovery of the
water the reconstruction of municipal water supply, sanitation and solid waste collection and disposal
systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is intended that the credits and grants will finance the cost of the
following procurement:
*     Computers, printers related equipment
*     Office equipment & furniture
*     4WD vehicles & Trucks
*      wExcavators & construction equipment
*     Sewer cleaning maintenance equipment
*      iGarbage trucks
*     Pumps, motors & related electrical equipment
*     Pipes, fittings, repair clamps & accessories
*     Water meters
*     Civil works for pipe laying & repair & reconstruction of structures
*      ?Consultant services for design and supervision
Given the emergency nature of the project, the above mention goods and services will be
procured through accelerated procurement procedures within the framework of the procurement guidelines
and regulations of the World Bank, European Commission and other possible participating financing
agencies and bilateral donors.
Interested suppliers, manufacturers, contractors and consulting firms are invited to send their
expressions of interest to the below-mentioned address. As eligibility requirements of the World Bank,
the European Union and other financing agencies and donors vary for participation in bidding, the
Purchaser will prepare a list of interested suppliers, manufacturers, construction firms and consulting
firms according to their eligibility. As and when the Purchaser will be ready with bidding documents
or with invitations to quote, these will be sent to those who respond to this notice.
Mr. Faruk Sabeta, Director
Javno Vodoprivredno Preduzece
"Vodoprivreda BiH"
M. Tita 13/III
Sarajevo, BH
Tel/Fax 387 71 664861






APPENDIX 8
Page 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
List of Supporting Documents in the Project File
1.    Bosnia and Herzegovina: Priorities for Recovery and Growth, Discussion Paper # 1, The
World Bank and IMG, Washington, DC, December 8, 1995.
2.    Bosnia and Herzegovina: Priorities for Recovery and Growth--Sectoral Annexes, Discussion
Paper # 2, The World Bank and IMG, Washington, DC, December 8, 1995.
3.    Bosnia and Herzegovina: Priority Needs for the First Quarter of 1996, Discussion Paper # 3,
The World Bank and the European Commission, Washington, DC, December 8, 1995.
4.    Water Management Sector Reconstruction Projects, Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina/Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ministry of Physical Planning, Natural Resources
and Environment, Sarajevo, December 1995.
5.    A series of master plan reports to IMG prepared by Zavod Za Vodoprivredu d.o.o. Mostar
and BTB International, Sarajevo in 1995 for 29 municipalities in the Federation territory.
6.    A series of 19 project reports to IMG prepared by Zavod Za Vodoprivredu Ilidza, Ilidza in
1994-95.
7.    A series of 12 project reports prepared by the World Health Organization, Regional Office for
Europe, European Centre for Environment and Health, Nancy Project Office, Nancy, France, 1994.
8.    Donor Options for Strengthening the Bosniac/Croat Federation, U.S. Agency for International
Development, Office of Transition Initiatives, Washington, DC, April 1995.
9.    Report of the Special Coordinator for Sarajevo on the Actin Plan for Sarajevo--Donors
Conference, Vienna, June 14, 1995, United Nations, Sarajevo, May 30, 1995.
10.   Water Loss Reduction and Leak Detection Program in Former Yugoslavia--A Report Prepared
for SRC/ICRC, SEBA Messtechnik, Austria, Fall 1995.






IBRD 27767
I6                               17-                                1'8 
C R O A T I A                                          -.
f   >  f                   '"                (       ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i ~~~~~~45
45,                Prijedor                                       Bra   p         CO Rm
0                                              //VA~~~~~~~~~~~
0 r
Ban                                                                                 -n  n     = 
Sanski Most                                            Dob                                                     C)
agiaj0 r _               Tuzia )g 0>Loznica   m
CROATIA                               )MrkonieGrad
~~~)    \                   \J~~~~~~aice                   ~                                     , 
'  Bosansko Gr hov                \                        Zenica                      
\   O                             ) oDonji Vakuf                                     /          Srebrenica
OKnin 1       g        OGIamoc/1t4 
X,  As                                ~~~~~~SARAJIVO,                            ,,\
440~                          A,  {t'                                                                                   /" 
0Sibenik                                                                        A RrADi4j
oJablanica                                   Gor\de
0Spliit                  -
Mostar,                                                            
(0   Mosk~~~~~r                                     FEDERAL
<   '<                      !               ~~~~~REPUBLIC
4PIoce                                                             OF         43 -
~43 '\                                                                                                                        YUGOSLAVIA
0         25          50         75
.*\ ^;          KILOMETERS
Dubrovniko . \
BOSNIA   AND   H ERZEGOVI NA                                                                           -h;sasopdonotrnpiyothe pord o-f-,
I           ~~~~he World Book Group, any c,dgrnet
WATE R, SAN ITATION AND D                                                                                    l   or Iccpionca of
SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT                                                                                         - c-dep-
1 9
DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES                                        u  lo- ,. 1      >0      20                30 50
,  >    , CRZEEp~CH' -POLAND/      UK<RAINE
SERB-CONTROLLED AREAS                                                       C      .OA- GRA\Ar-I
FEDERATION-CONTROLLED AREAS                                               g'                 %QLDOVA
R   SWITZ ,jv  AUSTRIA,j HJNGARY/         '
RIVERS                                                        -.<    
420- r              1ooo>-           ROMAN A
-420                             0    SELECTED CITIES                                               t
6    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                 -O      E "tO I5-
ITALY                    BULGARIA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                        L o-
THE STATUS OF BRCKO WILL BE DETERMINED                      40**                                            40
BY ARBITRATION WITHIN ONE YEAR.                                                           REE3
TURKEY
16                                  170                                   18'          100                   200o
I1161                                                117,                                  18M _  I  I                         2IM
MARCH 1 99c,









ITMAGING
Report Nc : 4*1   6dB2,9 BIH
Type: IOP



