                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 27492




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                         BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

  WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE URGENT WORKS PROJECT
                                   (TF-24032)




                                December 29,2003




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
OperationsEvaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit =Deutsche Mark (DM) until 1997; Convertible Markfrom 1998

1996
1997              US$1.oo         DM 1.51

1998              US$1.oo         DM 1.73

                  US$1.oo
                  US$1.oo         KM 1.76

2000
1999              US$1.oo         KM 1.84

2001              US$1.oo         KM 2.12

                  US$1.oo         KM 2.19

2003 (July)
2002              US$1.oo         KM 2.23
                                  KM 1.68



Abbreviations and Acronyms

BiH               Bosnia and Herzegovina
CI                Cooperazione Italiana
EC                European Commission
EU                European Union
FSFRY             Former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP               Gross domestic product
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
IMG               International Management Group
MAWMF             Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management, and Forestry
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
PIU               Project Implementing Unit
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
RS                Republika Srpska
SRP               Sector Recovery Program
TF                Trust Fund
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
VBH              Vodopriveda of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation               : Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department            : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation               : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                          : Mr. Ronald Parker

                                                               i

1    OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.                        1
  About this Report
        The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two
  purposes: first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation processand to verify that the Bank's work is
  producingthe expected results,and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
  the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
  the Bank's lending operations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to those that are
  innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
  ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requested assessments;and those that are likelyto generate
  important lessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected for assessmentsupport larger evaluation
  studies.
       A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
  Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
  PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
  the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
  validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
  OED studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
  PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
  sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
  Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


  About the OED Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
  The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
  sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
  http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
  current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       SusfainabiMy: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
 better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
 better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
 institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
 project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
 supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
 for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance:The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
 quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
 achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
 Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

Principal Ratings         ................................................................................................................  v

Key Staff Responsible.........................................................................................................

Preface  ..............................................................................................................................     ..
                                                                                                                                           vi1

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................     ix

Background .........................................................................................................................

         The WaterSupply and Sanitation Sector ...................,.............................................l
        Bank's Role.......,....,.............,.....,....,.........,..,............,.....................,.,,.,.........,.........2
        Project Objectives......,.......,...,,,,........,.............,,............,.........................................2
        Project Components.,.........,..,..............,....,......,,,..............................,.................,....2
Implementation          ..................................................................................................................   4

Results  .................................................................................................................................   5

        Overall Progress and Operational Experience ...,..,,....,.......,.......,.,.,,..........,..,.,.....5
Ratings   ................................................................................................................................   9

        Outcome,.........,....,...............,,.......,.,,,.........,.,..,.............,..................,.....................-9
        Institutional Development Impact.........................,................................................IO
        Sustainability............,..........................            ., ...........................,......,.,..........................10
                                                                           ,.

        Bank Performance .........,.,.,.......,...,...........,.,.............,....................................
        Borrower Performance ........................................................................................
Lessons   ..............................................................................................................................    11

Annex A. Basic Data Sheet................................................................................................




This report was prepared by Tauno Skytta, who assessed the project in June 2003. The report was edited by
William Hurlbut. Helen Phillip provided administrative support.


                                                   V




Principal Ratings
                                            ICR*                   ES*---                 PPAR
                                   --_I

Outcome                                  Satisfactory          Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory-
Sustainability                            Unlikely                Unlikely               Unlikely
Institutional Development Impact          Modest                  Modest                  Modest
Bank Performance                         Satisfactory          Satisfactory            Satisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
Project                    Task ManagedLeader            Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                         Sector Director
 Appraisal                 Richard A. MacEwen          Margaret C. Thalwitz          Christine Wallich
 Completion                  Seema Manghee              Walter Stottmann          Christian J. Poortman


                                             vii



Preface

        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Water,
Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent Works Project (TF-24032), approved for a TrustFund
for Bosnia and Herzegovina credit in the amount of US$20.0 million on April 1, 1996.
The credit closed on June 30, 1999, fully disbursed and on schedule.

        This report is based on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), dated June
29,2000, and prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Region, the appraisal documents,
credit documents, project files and discussions with relevant Bank staff. An Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) mission visited Bosnia and Herzegovina in June 2003 to
discuss the effectiveness of Bank's assistance with the government, the project
implementing agencies, and a sample of recipient municipalities. The cooperation and
assistance of central government officials, management and staff of the Vodoprivedas of
Sarajevo and Mostar, and other interested parties, including the Cooperazione Italiana
(the Italian aid-agency) that cofinanced the project, are gratefully acknowledged.

        The assessed project was the first step in the international reconstruction effort to
improve the water supply, sanitation, and solid waste service in Bosnia and Herzegovina
after the war of 1991-95. The project focused on a number of communities in the
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Its concept included rehabilitation and
reconstruction of water supply, sewerage, and solid waste facilities to achieve immediate
service improvements and to remove the potential risks to public health. It also initiated
necessary institutional changes to enhance long-term sustainabilityof the sector. In
addition, the project was to prepare plans and designs for major rehabilitation and
expansion projects.

        Following standard OED procedures, this draft PPAR was sent to the borrower
and the cofinancier for comments before it is finalized. No comments were received from
the government. In accordance with the Bank's disclosure policy, the final report will be
available to the public following submission to the World Bank's Board of Executive
Directors.


                                                 ix


 Summary

         The Water, Sanitation and Solid Waste Urgent Works Project was approved
 for a Trust Fundfor Bosnia and Herzegovina credit in the amount of US$20.0 million on
 April 1, 1996. The credit closed on June 30, 1999, fully disbursed and on schedule.

         The assessed project was one of the first emergency reconstruction efforts in
 Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) following the signing of the Dayton peace accord in
December 1995. The project was conceived as the first phase of a three-phase sector
recovery program (SW).It covered immediate (urgent) works to restore water,
 sanitation, and solid waste service in a number of municipalities within the Federation of
Bosnia and Herzegovina that were most at risk from public health point of view. A
follow-up project (the second phase), to be prepared under the present project, was
envisaged to cover major rehabilitation needs. The third phase of SRP was to cover
extensive expansion of the service facilities nationwide. The project concept was that the
Bank would implement and coordinate the overall program with additional funding
coming from a number of international and bilateral agencies.

         This assessment asserts that the project achieved its central goal to restore water,
sanitation,and solid waste service in the participatingmunicipalities. The project was an
emergency operation; therefore, its institutionalobjectiveswere defined only in broad
terms. Despite this flexibility, institutional developmentachievementswere quite limited in
the components implementedby the Bank. During project implementation, the European
Union (EU) initiated the development of the national level institutional reform. The pooling
of donor hnds did not occur as anticipated;only the CooperazioneItaliana joined the
Bank in the cofinancing of this project. The anticipated follow-on project under SRP did
not materialize, and, as of June 2003 all aid agencieswere financing and implementing
independent ad-hoc interventions.

        The project achieved most of its service goals in each of the 26 participating
municipalities, but there were shortcomings in its equally important institutional
development goals. Its overall outcome therefore, is rated moderately satisfactory.
Achievements of the institutional goals were not substantive enough tojustify a higher
outcome rating. The institutional development impact was rated modest. Sustainabilityis
rated unlikely, considering that it is taking BiH longer than anticipated to recover from
the emergency, and achieve a level of cost recovery that would permit adequate
maintenance and up-keep of the facilities over the next several years. Although there is
much work to be done in terms of increasing the efficiency of operations, some of the
more advanced municipalities demonstrated real improvements and achieved further
system expansions after project completion. Bank Performance and borrower
performance are both rated satisfactory.

        Two main lessons emerge from this project experience.

        0  In an emergency reconstruction program, it is essential to have a
           workable coordination system in place to avoid duplication of effort and
           inconsistent applications of policy that lead to different treatment

                                     X


  regimes. The objectives of this project were not attained at the planned level,
  as most funding aid-agencies opted to work on their own (instead of
  contributing to the agreed upon SRP). The use of differing sets of policy and
  procedures caused confusion during project implementation, and unplanned
  overlaps in donor activities led to a reduction in the overall program scope. In
 the end, lack of coordination weakened sector reform activities, and prevented
 the phased implementation of the rest of the SRP operations within the
  anticipated timeframe.

0The rapid post-emergency appraisal of operations sometimes requires
 flexibility, but it is still necessary that key components be fully defined
 within the project implementation period. In this case, institutional
 strengthening should have included well-specified and realistic activities that
 would have assisted sector agencies to improve operational efficiencyin
 incremental steps. In the midst of hectic repair and rehabilitation efforts,
 institutional development measures such as reducing unaccounted water,
 improving efficiency and skills of staff and improving collection of bills,
 received lower priority. A stepwise package of the most urgent measures
 should have been defined in the project documents to ensure that the various
 entities could take needed first steps to return to normal operations after the
 crisis.



                                                                  &-
                                                              Gregory K. Ingram
                                                               Director-General
                                                            Operations Evaluation

                                                      1


 Background

 1.       Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), a constituent republic of the Former Socialist
 Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FSFRY) became independent in 1992.With the Dayton
 peace settlement ending nearly five years of war, BiH with a total population of 4.1
 million now comprises two entities: the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina
 (Federation), and the Republika Srpska (RS). The State of BiH Bank operations in BiH
 have been guided by a Country Assistance Strategy' (CAS) that highlights the following
 key medium-term challenges: strengthening of governance and public sector
 management, fostering private sector led growth, building social sustainability, and
 completing reconstruction.

 2.       The latest CAS progress reports a marked slowdown in GDP growth from 4.5
percent in 2000 to 2.3 percent in 2001. This was as aid flows declined, structural reform
took place more slowly than anticipated, and the supply-side response was weak. Since
2001, BiH State and Entity governments have worked more effectively together than any
time since the Dayton agreement. Economic reform has accelerated in some areas and
important steps have been taken in nation building and in strengthening institutions and
governance. Starting in 2003, GDP growth rate is projected to increase significantly, but
financial self-sustainability may not be achieved until the end of this decade.

The Water Supply and Sanitation Sector

3.       Before the project, overall water sector management in BiH was entrusted to the
Federation Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry (MAWMF).'
Implementation of sector policies and enforcement of legislation and regulations was the
responsibility of the Federation water authority (Vodopriveda, VBH), headquartered in
Sarajevo and with its main regional office in Mostar (VBH managed the implementation
of this project). Municipal service companies (vodovods)had the primary responsibility
to provide water supply, sewerage, and solid waste service at the municipal level. Piped
water supply service coverage was high (at 90 percent of population served) in most
urban areas and 24-hour service was common. The sewerage service coverage was lower,
at 70 percent in the urban areas. Except for Sarajevo, sewage treatment was not
comprehensive as the most common treatment wasjust screening and grit-removal. The
un-served population relied on septic tanks. Solid waste collection was widespread, but
few landfill sites were properly designed and operated.

4.       The quality of municipal service in BiH deteriorated sharply after the conflict
began in 1991,This was partly the result of the sector losing a significant amount of
qualified staff, both at the managerial and operational levels (because many chose to
leave the country or found more lucrativejobs in the private sector). Severe damage
caused by the war and the lack of maintenance funds further contributed to this
deterioration, leading to reduced service hours, increased unaccounted water, leaky
sewers (and related pollutions risks), and irregular solid waste collection.

1. The second CAS on BiH, dated June 14, 2000; its latest progress report is dated October 15, 2002.
2. The institutional set-up ofthe water sector remained IargeIythe same as before the conflict.

                                                    2


Bank's Role

 5.       The World Bank had a key role in the overall reconstruction program in BiH; the
activities included donor coordination, seminars,program preparation, and funding of
 selected works. The current water sector-related goals in the CAS are to help BiH address
municipal, environmental, and public utility problems and contribute to improving the
capacity in these areas by supporting sound utility practices and pricing policies; all this
is based on reforming these institutions into commercialized agencies.

6.        The Bank's involvement in the water sector projects began just after the Dayton
agreement (which covered, inter alia, post-conflict and urgent reconstruction efforts).
The project covered by this evaluation was the first significant effort in the water sector.
It was prepared for funding under the Board-created US$150 million Trust Fund for BiH
(TFBH) provided under Resolutions No. 96-1 and IDA 96-1. The Resolutions stipulate
that the funds are to be used for work related to emergency reconstruction.

7.       The Bank is currently reviewing its sector strategy and is in the process of
preparing a new mid-term program covering the years 2004-07.3 The new strategy will
recognize the Bank's perceived comparative advantage in terms of program design and
sectoral competencies. It directs the new focus on achieving fundamental institutional
transformation and a high degree of financial leverage at the utility level. Particularly for
the water sector, the draft strategypoints to prospective engagement in upgrading water
supply systems in secondary municipalities and in supporting the design and
implementation of a State level water regulator.

Project Objectives

8.       During the appraisal process, there was an international consensus that full
recovery would take time. A phased sector recovery program (SRP) was therefore created
wherein critical needs for immediate improvements were to be covered by this project. Its
development objectives were defined in the appraisal documents as follows: address most
immediate needs by (i) taking selected actions to improve service quickly and to remove
risks topublic health; (ii)starting thepreparation of works that would take more time to
implement; and (iii) starting to make institutional changes that would result in the long-
term szutainability of the sector. The original objectives were not revised during project
implementation.

Project Components

9.      The project was designed as the first step of a phased SRP and included five parts:

        Part A: Supply of equipment and materials (US$14.7 million equivalent); this part
        was fully financed by EU to provide the necessary equipment and materials for




3. Bosnia and Herzegovina: Infrastructure and Energy Strategy, Draft Main Report, dated August 14,2003.

                                                      3


         those municipalities (estimated at appraisal to number 40 in total)4that could
         carry out the necessary repairs with their own maintenance personnel.

      0  Part B: Urgent works for the provision of water supply, sanitation and solid waste
         services for municipalities (US$47.0 million equivalent); this part was to provide
         the necessary assistance for the rehabilitation of war damage in water and
         sewerage systems and in solid waste service in about 20 municipalities in the
         Federation.' This included, inter alia, the major cities of Sarajevo, Zenica, Tuzla,
         Travnik and Bihac. The works to be undertaken consisted of rehabilitation of
         water mains, well fields, pumping stations and sewer pipes, testing and
         repair/replacement of water meters, and investigation and replacement of leaking
         service connections.

         Part C: Emergency development plan for water management (US$0.6 million);
         this part was to prepare an inventory of water supply and sewerage improvements
         serving the 70 municipalities in the Federation, assess needs, and recommend
         solutions with a prioritized program of projects.

     0   Part D: Institutional strengthening (US$2.0 million); this part was to (i) comprise
         training at the entity and local levels (twinning) and (ii) financing of incremental
         operating costs for VBH and participating municipalities.

         Part E: Preparation of a follow-on water supply, sanitation, and solid waste
         rehabilitation project (US$5.0 million), i.e., second phase of the SRP; this part
         was to comprise final design and procurement/contract documentation for the
         second project that would consist of high-priority projects identified under Part C
         above.

 10.     Parts B through E were included in the project within the concept that the World
Bank would coordinate and administer funding inputs from a number of bilateral and
other funding agencies to supplement its own funding share of US$20.0 million. At
project appraisal, two bilateral cofinanciers, namely the governments of the Netherlands
and Austria, committed funding of about US$5.0 million in total. The remaining US$30.3
million was expected to come from other, but still uncommitted, funding agencies at the
time of appraisal.




4. Formal requests for funding support had alreadybeen received before project appraisal and 12
municipalities had been selected into the first batch.
5. This was the original scope for the Bank fundedpart; the total number of municipalities in the Federation
is 70.

                                                         4


 Implementation

 11.       The project concept, under which the Bank would coordinate, and administer all
 the cofinanced components, did not materialize at the planned leveL6Joint hnding was
 limited to the Bank and the Coopeviazone Italiane (CI), the only one of all the original
 cofinanciers to actually participate.' Actual project costs totaled US$25.3 million', only
 36 percent of the anticipated project costs of US$70.0 million. The balance of the project,
 Phase I of SRP, was implemented under various bilateral funding agreements outside the
 Bank project and, thus, also outside the purview of this OED evaluation. Consequently,
 the overall scope of all the activities undertaken and their total costs are not available.

 12.      The ICR explains that the project, within the part financedjointly by the Bank and
 CI, covered rehabilitation and reconstruction needs in 26 Federation municipalities
 instead of the 20 as was originally planned. This was made possible by adjusting the scale
 of works overall in individual municipalities as well as by the slightly increased amount
 available in local currency due to its fluctuations against the US dollar. The ICR further
notes that the project quickly restored services in these 26 municipalities, but that long-
term sustainability of service continues to depend on the implementation of the State
Water Law (enacted in 1998but not yet enforced). The ICR also states that Part A under
the parallel EU funding was implemented satisfactorily.

 13.      Overall, the OED assessment agrees with the above and finds that most of the
physical investment components were completed as expected. The mission interviews
also confirm that the project was instrumental in quickly restoring services. The total
implementation time was only slightly over two years as a large majority of the
participating municipalities had their systems operational by mid-1998.' The assessment
further confirms that donor activities were not systematically coordinated. One informant
described the coordination of funding inputs for the various project activities as "a
nightmare," because many donor agencies, once they dropped out of the coordinated
scheme, opted to deal with the municipalities directly without informing VBH and other
collaborating funding agencies, including the Bank itself.

14.       The OED mission visited a sample of five municipalities out of the participating
26 (within both the Mostar and Sarajevo regions) to verify the quality and extent of
works carried out under the project, review progress made after project completion, and
assess the current effectiveness of operations. In addition, a questionnaire was prepared to
provide a more in-depthperspective of the current operational status of water supply and

6 The mission was not able to clarify, and the documentation available, including the WB supervision
  ,
reports, do not state any specific reasons for bilateral donors' lack of interest to join this coordinated
reconstruction project.
7. The total amount provided by CI was US$5.3 million equivalent.
8 . Of this total amount, 86.2 percent was disbursed against Part B (urgent works), 2.4 percent against Part
C (emergency development plan), 5.5percent against Part D (institutional strengthening), and 0.4 percent
against Part E (preparation of a follow-on project). In addition, 5.5 percent of the total amount was
disbursed against Part A (supply of equipment and material), mainly funded under the EU parallel
cofinancing.
9. See Aide-Memoire of the supervision mission, dated July 31, 1998.

                                               5


sanitation at the municipality level. The results of the OED survey carried out with the
assistance of Mostar Vodopriveda are presented and discussed in detail inparas. 16 and
17below.


Results

Overall Progress and Operational Experience

15.     In summary, the project achieved its main objective to restore water service in the
participating 26 municipalities. This was achieved through rehabilitation (in some cases
reconstruction) of existing water mains, pumping stations, water wellshntakes, service
reservoirs, and treatment plants; in a few municipalities it was warranted to undertake

investments chiefly included rehabilitation and'repairof sewer lines. Although originally
supply capacity and distribution expansions as well. Insewerage systems, the

planned, no investments were made in restoring solid waste service in these communities,
instead some minor flood protection works were carried out. At project completion, it
was estimated that project investments resulted in improved water supplies for 300,000
people and the supply coverage had been expanded for another 60,000 people. The major
setback was that the project did not result in a follow-on operation under SRP although
the necessary preparation work was carried out. The main reasons for this are likely the
unsettled situation in the sector at the time and the lack of coordinated effort among the
donor community. As a result, the Bank developed its own portfolio of follow-on water
sector projects outside the SRP concept (see para. 23 and other project data in Annex A).
Mission's interviews reveal that there had been an effort by EU to reinvigorate donor
coordination, but it did not achieve much (see para. 22).

16.    The review mission arranged to collect operational information from all the
participating municipalities on the basis of a short questionnaire. Table 1 shows the
summary of the responses. The discussion of various findings follows in the paragraph
below.

                                                                  6


Table 1. Operational Indicators, Summary of Questionnaire Results, June 2003

Indicator                                                                               Average              Range
1. Unaccounted-water ratio (unaccounted water as % of total water                           61               19-87
produced)

2. Collection ratio (% collected of water billed)                                           67               20-93

3. Working ratio (total operation expenditures as % of total                               115              100-150
operation revenues)
4. Staff index (staff per 1000 connections)                                                 9.7             5.0-23.0

5. Population with 24-hour supply (% of total population)                                   51               13-100


Notes:
10 municipalities (38%) provided complete information (main gaps were in the area of financial data)
          (i) 26 municipalities participated in the project; (ii) 17 municipalities (65%) responded to the questionnaire ; (iii)

Source: OED PPAR mission survey


17.       The results show a large variation between the municipalities. Key features of
their operational status include:

    0     Unaccounted-waterratio: Only two municipalities of the 17have achieved an
          acceptable unaccounted-water ratio (19 and 22 percent) and nearly 90 percent of
          the responding municipalities report that the ratio is higher than 50 percent, that
          is, no real reduction from the pre-project level. Based on the field-visit interviews,
          commercial losses are assumed to make up a large part of the overall ratio. The
          PPAR concludes that the unaccounted-water reduction has not yet become an
          established and systematic part of municipal operations after the completion of
          initial rehabilitation and repair works within the project.

    0     Collection ratio:The collection ratio of 93 percent (in Sarajevo) was an
          impressive achievement, and even in six other municipalities the ratio was 80
          percent or higher. On the other hand, eight municipalities collected only 60
          percent or much less of their potential water revenues. Thus many municipalities
          could reasonably quickly improve their financial situationjust by improving the
          efficiency of their water bill collection process.

   0      Workingratio:The generally high value of the working ratio indicates that none
         of the responding municipalities fully meet their operation and maintenance costs.
         The project documents stipulated that they should aim at the 80 percent level of
         operating ratio (in seven years from project completion) in order to cover some of
         the future investment costs as well. The above results strongly point to the
         importance and urgency of operational efficiency improvements to achieve this
         important goal.

         Staffindex: The best staff index of 5 (two municipalities) is a commendable
         achievement under such difficult conditions. The next best municipalities were in
         the range between 6 and 8 (six of them), but nearly half of the municipalities have
         a staff index of more than 10.For comparison, it should be noted that effectively
         operated water utilities for instance in EU-countries have a staff index of 3 or less.

                                                     7


     0    24-hour sewice: This is a measure for service reliability and also an important
          goal from public health point of view. The survey shows that 24-hour service is
          available, on average, for onlyjust over half of the total population of the
         responding municipalities. Full 24-hour service is available only in one
         municipality and in three others, 75 percent of the population enjoy 24-hour
          service. This result tells that little, if any, expansion of the systems has taken
         place in these municipalities after the project.

 18.     The results of the survey show that, despite the efforts of this project, its
 institutional impact remains quite limited. Interestingly, the results from the USAID
project in ten municipalities are consistent with the findings of this survey (seepara. 24).
 The mission was informed that USAID now continues with five municipalities with the
main emphasis on institutional strengthening as per the earlier recommendations. That
project still includes necessary reconstruction of systems, however. USAID also found
that the pending enforcement of the new Water Law is a major impediment for achieving
real tangible results.

Progress in Institutional Development

 19.     The project's institutional objectives were defined in broad terms with no specific
activities designed to achieve them. Resulting institutional outputs of the project were
limited to training in project design and procurement procedures at the PIU and local
municipality levels. The staff of VBH-PIU gained practical on-the-job training and
experience focusing chiefly on disbursement and procurement procedures. This project
experience is of course now useful when PIU staff continue working in other projects        -
about half of the staff still works within the VBH programs, whereas others have joined
the private sector.

20.      The findings at the five municipalities visited during the assessment mission and
the survey results discussed above confirm that real tangible institutional achievements
are limited. The municipalities are, however, fully aware of, and indeed use, the
operational indicators for progress monitoring and achieving more efficient performance
(including financial operations). The project introduced the use of operational indicators
to monitor the efficiency of operations and this new approach seems to have had some
positive impact which is demonstrated by the fact that most (65 percent) of the
participating municipalities are now ready and able to provide reasonably complete
operational data. In some 80 percent of the municipalities the monitoring and billing
systems are computerized today.

21,     Although there is much work to be done to reach comprehensive service coverage
and efficient operations, some of the visited municipalities demonstrated that real
improvements are being achieved. During the site visits, the assessment mission was
informed anecdotally of further system expansions that have been carried out in some
more advanced municipalities after project completion, but it was not possible during the
mission to see records that adequately document the full extent to which this is
happening.

                                                      8


 22.       Other ongoing efforts to improve sectorperformance. Although the initiation of
 long-term sector development activities was one of the project objectives, the Bank
 focused on the utility-level institutional aspects and achieved some relevant, but limited
 results in this project. The Bank, among other funding agencies, encouraged EU to take
 the lead in the overall development of the institutional aspects at the State level. In June,
 the assessment mission was informed that the EU is making pr0gress;'O a study to this
 effect was completed in April 1999" for the Federation. A similar study for RS was
 completed in March 200012(both of these studies were funded by EU). These studies
 recommended, among other things, the establishment of several river basin entities to
 shoulder the responsibilities of the old VBH, adaptation of water resource management
 principles promoted by EU, and formation of independent and autonomous water utilities
 at the municipality level. Implementation of the recommendations has encountered some
 bureaucratic resistance and now EU is again in the process of undertaking a new study to
 update the recommendations to reflect the current situation. No verifiable information
 was available, however, to record the most recent progress in the implementation of the
 study recommendations.

 23.      In a new Bank project, Mostar Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Credit 3400-
 BA, approved on June 30,2000), the Bank has set the following key objectives: (i) create a
 unified water supply and sanitationutility for the city of Mostar and (ii) improve the
 consistency and quality of service.At the operational level, the project includes several
 institutional goals, such as increased cost recovery, commercially focusedutility
management, and operationalreliability. These focus areas emerge from the sector specific
goal in the latest CAS: "to enhance the capacityat the utility level, especiallyby adapting
sound utilitypractices andpricingpolicies, and by institutionaldevelopment and
commercializationof the utilities." The progress so far is reported to be reasonably
satisfactory;I3the financial situationhas improved from year to year with improved (water
bill) collections, and activitiesthat aim to reduce unaccounted water are making progress,
but the tangible results are yet to materialize. Similarly,the work to improve financial
management is undenvay. The'Mostar project continues the Bank approachto develop the
utility level institutions and its experience will be relevant for preparing future municipal
water supply and sanitation projects in BiH.

24.       USAID worked with ten municipality-level vodovods in parallel with the Bank
project. As an example of activities carried out by other funding agencies, these USAID
activities are well do~umented'~and serve as useful comparison material. The main aim


10.The Bank was actively involved in designing these activities and, indeed provided guidance in their
implementation, throughout its supervision effort of the present project, see supervision Aide-Memoires,
dated May 12, 1997, February 23, 1998, and July 31, 1998.
11.Water Sector Institution Strengthening, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina; Final Report April
1999:Plancenter Ltd - BCEOM-Hydro-Engineering Institute, Sarajevo.
12.Institutional Strengthening of the Water Sector in the Republic Srpska; Final Report March 2000:
Plancenter Ltd in association with ODP Zavod Za Vodorivredu Srpsko, Sarajevo.
13.Aide Memoire of the supervision mission, March 3-19, 2003.
14. Camp Dresser & McKee International (USA) and Hydro-Engineering Institute Sarajevo: Plan for
Institutional Strengthening in Ten Selected Pilot Vodovods; Final Report, October 6, 1999.

                                                    9


of the USAID program was to develop a plan for institutional strengthening involving ten
pilot municipalities.l5The report recommends eight priority improvement areas that deal
with the autonomy of vodovod management, revenue collection, metering of service
connections, unaccounted-water reduction, financial management systems, taxation of
vodovods, and tariff structure and rates.




Outcome

25.     The project achieved most of its water and sanitation service goals in each of the
26 participating municipalities, while there were shortcomings in its equally important
institutional development goals. Thus, its overall outcome is rated moderately
satisfactory. The overall rating follows the importance of various objectives and their
respective rating factors of relevance, efficacy, and efficiency.

        (i)    Relevance; all sub-projects, and components therein, were relevant to the
                emergency needs identified at project appraisal. The project objectives
               also fare well even against the sector-specific goals and priorities spelled
               out in the most recent update of the CAS. The project, as an emergency
               reconstruction operation, did not specify the institutional objectives in any
               great detail, and thus the design of the components was quite superficial.
               In the process, institutional development, especially at the State level,
               became mostly the responsibility of EU.
               Rating;substantial

        (ii)   Eficacy;the project's objectives were mostly achieved as expected with
               one exception for institutional objectives; there were shortcomings in
               meeting these objectives at the utility level. All physical objectives were
               achieved to their full extent and as scheduled. The respective benefits are
               significant in terms of restoring the severely interrupted water and
               sanitation service in the participating municipalities. This in turn has
               reduced the risk to public health, as anticipated. In these municipalities, no
               solid waste collection works were carried out.
               Rating; modest

        (iii)  Eficiency; the average costs of the project components was about US$70
               per capita, which compares favorably with industry standards. Due to the
               emergency nature of the project, the validation of benefits resulting from
               the project achievements was difficult to carry out, thus no economic rate
               of return (ERR) was calculated for this project at appraisal or in




15.Vodovods of Banja Luka, Bijeljina, Cajnice, Celic, Gradacac, Konjic, Orasje, Srbac, Tuzla, and Zenica.

                                                10


                 connection with ICR. The limited institutional achievements lead to
                 assume that operational efficiency is not yet at the acceptable level.
                 Therefore, the reliability of servicemay be in question.
                 Rating; modest

 Institutional Development Impact

 26.     The institutional development impact is rated modest.The project provided
 limited training in project implementation, especiallyin Bank disbursement and
 procurement procedures. This took place both at the municipality and VBH levels. In
 addition, the staff that was directly involved in project implementation has gained useful
 experience. Some municipality level vodovods also gained experience in improving their
 operational efficiency. This training and experience contributed, to a limited extent, to
 achieving the project's ID1objectives. It is noted that the ongoing Bank projects in the
 water sector pay particular attention to institutional capacity building, a key objective in
 the CAS.

 Sustainability

 27.     Sustainability is rated unlikely.The survey of vodovods participating in the
 project reveals rather poor financial results and it is assumed that many more substantial
 improvements are required before meaningful cost recovery is achievable. Technically
 for the most part, the water systems are being operated effectively, but the lack of
 financial capacity is still hampering the regular maintenance (even urgent repairs) of the
old system components. Thus, unaccounted water remains at an unacceptably high level,
on average. Reliability (hours of service) and coverage (percentage of population with
24-hour service) are significantly lower than anticipated.

Bank Performance

28.     Bankperformance is rated satisfactory.The Bank reacted to the need to restore
the water, sanitation, and solid waste service quickly and prepared this project effectively
in less than six months from the Dayton agreement. The support by the Bank staff during
project implementation was both comprehensive and effective. The Bank total resources
used in this project were about US$0.28 million, or about 1.4percent of the credit
amount; resources used for supervision were about 70 percent of the total, demonstrating
the intensity of the supervision effort. This intensive supervision was chiefly focused on
supervision of physical repair and rehabilitation works; institutional aspects received,
under the circumstances, lower priority. The Bank should have taken a stronger position
on donor coordination, although the environment to do that among a large number of
agencies with varying sets of policies and procedures was not encouraging.

Borrower Performance

29.     Borrower peformance is rated satisfactory.The sector staff worked under
difficult conditions during the initial phase of project implementation. The Bank support
to cover incremental operating costs of VBH helped its project implementation unit to

                                               11


take adequate responsibility for project management. Availability and quality of staff was
satisfactory. The PIU staff quickly learned the project implementation procedures   -  for
progress reporting, procurement and disbursement     -  and the performance was fully
satisfactory; after a familiarization period of about one year, the PIU was fully competent
to manage all activities without much outside technical assistance.


Lessons

30.     Two main lessons emerge from this project experience.

    0  In an emergency reconstruction program, it is essential to have a workable
       coordination system in place to avoid duplication of effort and inconsistent
       applications of policy that lead to different treatment regimes. The objectives
       of this project were not attained at the planned level, as most funding aid-agencies
       opted to work on their own (instead of contributing to the agreed upon SRP). The
       use of differing sets of policy and procedures caused confusion during project
       implementation, and unplanned overlaps in donor activities led to a reduction in
       the overall program scope. In the end, lack of coordination weakened sector
       reform activities, and prevented the phased implementation of the rest of the SRP
       operations within the anticipated timeframe (seeparas. 13 and 15).

    0  The rapid post-emergency appraisal of operations sometimes requires
       flexibility, but it is still necessary that key components be fully defined within
       the project implementation period. In this case, institutional strengthening
       should have included well-specified and realistic activities that would have
       assisted sector agencies to improve operational efficiency in incremental steps. In
       the midst of hectic repair and rehabilitation efforts, institutional development
       measures such as reducing unaccounted water, improving efficiency and skills of
       staff and improving collection of bills, received lower priority. A stepwise
       package of the most urgent measures should have been defined in the project
       documents to ensure that the various entities could take needed first steps to
       return to normal operations after the crisis (seeparas. 17, 19-- 21, and 26).

                                                       12                                         Annex A


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                  WATER, SANITATION AND SOLID WASTE
 URGENTWORKSPROJECT                       (TF24032)


7                                                    Appraisal          Actual or                   % of
                                                                     current estimate    apActual estimate
                                                                                            raisalas
 Total project costs                                    70.0              25.2                  36%
 Loan amount                                            20.0              20.0                 100%
 Cofinancing                                            50.0               5.2                  10%
 Cancellation


 Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                            FY96                FY97             FY98             FY99   -
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                   2.3                 10.2              18.3             20.0
Actual (US$M)                               -
                                            2.0                 18.4              19.4             20.0
Actual as Yoof appraisal        -           87%                180%              106%          "  100%
                                                                           ~~~




                                                      -Original               - Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                                                                            -
                                                                                         03/26/1996
Board approval                                                                           04/01/1996
Effectiveness                                              05/24/1996                    05/24/1996
Closing date                                               06/30/1999                    06/30/1999


Staff Inputs
                                                             ActuaYLatest Estimate
                                            N" Staff weeks                          us$us$(looo)
Identification/Preparation                       14.6                                   40.3
AppraisaVNegotiation                             11.2                                   30.9
Suoervision
rck                                              70.2                                  199.4
                                                 3.5                                    10.0
Total                                            99.5                                  280.6

Mission Data
                           Date      No. of      Specializations                 Performance Rating
                        (monthlyear) persons        represented            Implementation      Development
                                                                               Progress          Objective
Identification/            2/96         2        Sanitary Engineer
Preparation                                      Financial Analyst
AppraisalINegotiation      3/96         5        Sanitary Engineer
                                                      Counsel
                                               Disbursement Officer
                                                 Financial Analyst
                                              Procurement Specialist
Supervision                5/96         1        Sanitary Engineer                S
Supervision                6/96        2        Sanitary Enginees                 S                  ss
Supervision               12/96         1       Sanitary Engineer                 S                  S
Supervision                8/96         1       Sanitary Engineer                 S                  S
Supervision                7/97        1        Sanitary Engineer                 S                 S
Supervision                5/98        2             Engineer                     S                 S
                                                 Financial Analyst
Supervision               12/98        2        Sanitary Engineer,                S                 S
                                                 Financial Analyst
Completion                4/2000       1         Financial Analyst                s                 S

                                                   13                                  Annex A


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ON  OPERATIONS
Operation                                            Credit no.    Amount         Board date
                                                                 (US$ million)
MostarWater Supply and Sanitation Project             C3400         12.0         June 30,2000

Solid Waste Management Project                        C3672         18.0         June 20,2002

Urban Infrastructure and Service Delivery Project      N/a          12.0        Under preparation

