Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16141 MD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FIRST CADASTRE PROJECT
March 24, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 31, 1998)
Currency Unit         Leu (Lei)
Leu 1    =    US$0.21
US$1    =    Lei 4.70
MEASUREMENT
Square feet 1        0.09 Square Meter (sqm, m2)
1 square mile (27,878,400 square feet)    =    2.588 square kilometers (kin2)
1 acre (43,460 square feet)      0.405 hectare
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
BTI         Bureau of Technical Inventory
EEF          Extended Economic Facility
FY         Financial Year
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA         International Development Agency
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INGEOCAD            Institute for Geodesy and Cadastre
INGEOTECH            Institute for Technical Engineering Surveys
IRCIM          Institute for Engineering, Geodesy and Land Surveys
LAS          Land Arrangement Service
MAF          Ministry of Agriculture and Food
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MOLDGHIPROZEM               Land Survey Institute, subordinated to NAGCC
MOP          Ministry of Privatization
NAGCC           National Agency of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
(formerly Japanese Grant Facility)
PIO         Project Implementation Office
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SDR          Special Drawing Right
TA          Technical Assistance
TCO          Territorial Cadastre Office
USAID          US Agency for International Development
Moldova - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:                                               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:                                             Roger W. Grawe
Sector Director:                                              Ricardo A. Halperin
Team Leader:                                                  Mats Andersson



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
First Cadastre Project.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. SECTORAL BACKGROUND .............................................1
A. The Country and its recent Economic Development .................................................1
B. The Real Estate Sector in Moldova .................................................2
C. Bank Experience and Strategy ................................................6
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement .................................................7
Il. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................................8
A. Project Genesis .................................................8
B. Project Objectives .................................................8
C. Project Description .....9...........................................9
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS ............................................                                                 12
A. Project Costs and Financing ................................................                                            12
IV. P?,OJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ............................................                                               14
A. Implementation Arrangements ................................................                                            14
B. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision ................................................ 17
C. Procurement ................................................                                                            17
D. Disbursement ................................................                                                           21
E. Accounts and Audits ................................................                                                    22
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ............................................                                                                  24
A. Impact Analysis ................................................                                                        24
B. Cost Recovery Strategy ................................................                                                 25
C. Project Risks ................................................ 27
D. Alternative Designs ................................................                                                    29
E. Participation and Sustainability of Impact ................................................                             30
F. Distribution of Impact ................................................                                                 30
G. Fiscal Impact ................................................ 31
H. Poverty Impact ................................................ 32
I. Environmental Impact ................................................                                                   32
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................................                                                      33
A. Agreements Reached during Negotiations ............................................ 33
B. Conditions of Effectiveness ............................................                                                34
C. Recommendation ............................................                                                             34



TABLES
Table 2.1: Summary of targets for Components II and III                                              11 
Table 3.1: Summary of project cost estimates by component                                            12
Table 3.2: Financing Plan                                                                            13
Table 4.1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements                                                       20
Table 4.2: Disbursement Categories - Allocation of Credit Proceeds                                   21
Table 4.3: Estimated Disbursements                                                                   23
Table 5.1: Short term and medium term project risks                                                  28
Table 5.2: Long term strategic risks                                                                 29
Table 5.3: Fiscal Impact                                                                             31
ANNEXES
Annex 1:   Framework for a Cadastre: Legislative Activities and Methodology .................................... 35
Annex 2:   Institution and Capacity Building (Training, TA, Project Implementation Office) ............... 40
Annex 3:   Implementation Arrangements (Overviews, Organization of TCOs, PIO Organization) ...... 48
Annex 4:   Objectives and Performance Indicators ..............................................................  53
Annex 5:   Supervision Plan ..............................................................           55
Annex 6:   Detailed Cost and Procurement Arrangements ..............................................................     56
Annex 7:   Estimated Disbursement Schedule ..............................................................  65
Annex 8:   Calculation of Cost Recovery ..............................................................  66
MAP            IBRD No. 24285R3
This report is based on the findings of preparation missions and an appraisal mission which visited
Moldova in 1996 and 1997. Mats Andersson (Team Leader) and Monika Weber-Fahr (Co-team Leader)
were assisted by several teams including consultants and World Bank staff with expertise in areas related
to the project components. A large number of Moldovan officials participated in the design and
preparation of the project. Country Director: Roger W. Grawe, Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin.
Peer Reviewers: Ms. Khundavi Kadiresan (ECSRE); Mr. David Vetter (LCSPR), and Mr. Lynn Holstein
(Consultant).



REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FIRST CADASTRE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agency:    National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography, and Cadastre (NAGCC)
Beneficiaries:          Moldovan Property Owners, Existing and Prospective; Users of Real
Estate Information; Private Sector Surveyors, Notaries, and Valuers.
Poverty Category:       Not Applicable
IDA Credit Amount:      SDR 11.5 million (US$15.9 million equivalent)
Credit Terms:           Standard IDA terms, payable in thirty-five years, including ten years of
grace, with an expected disbursement period of five years.
Commitment Fee:         Variable rate between 0.00% - 0.50% (set annually by the Executive
Directors of IDA) on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after
signingl, less any waiver.
Project Objectives:     The project's objective is to develop and implement a national unified
real estate registration program for urban and rural land, and thereby to
establish a system of clear and enforceable ownership rights, so as to
promote the privatization of land and the development of real estate
markets in Moldova. The real estate registration system established
under the project should provide: (a) property owners with security of
ownership rights such that they can sell or rent real estate at fair market
prices and pass on their holdings as inheritances; (b) commercial banks
with the confidence necessary to give secured credit against real estate;
(c) the real estate market with information on ownership and location of
property as needed for the market to function effectively; (d)
government agencies and institutions with basic information for urban
planning and land management; (e) the real estate market with selective
information on property values; and (f) the private sector with oppor-
tunities to develop in areas related to real estate registration (surveyors,
notaries, valuers).
Project Description:    The proposed project would consist of the following four components:
(a) Mapping Program; (b) Urban Cadastral Services Program; (c) Rural
Cadast]ral Services Program; and (d) Institution and Capacity Building
Program, including a Project Implementation Office (PIO). Component
(d) willl support relevant stakeholders in implementing the project,



- ii -
including registration and data administration staff, private surveyors,
notaries, and valuers. As part of the institutional strengthening, several
legal and policy studies will be undertaken to develop recommendations
for government legislation and policy regarding key issues in land
administration, e.g. mortgage laws, real estate valuation, etc.
Project Benefits:          The direct and immediate beneficiaries of the project will be existing and
prospective private owners of real property. However, in providing
Moldova with the institutional, legal and technical basis for effective
land administration, the project will have a positive impact for the
economy as a whole, as well as for its most direct beneficiaries. The
project will spur economic growth through: (a) providing guarantee of
ownership and security of tenure; (b) facilitating the functioning of real
estate markets; (c) supporting privatization in the agricultural sector by
providing mechanisms facilitating the restructuring of collective farms
(kolkhozes); and (d) supporting effective urban planning. The project
will also encourage private sector development in those areas that are
directly involved in project implementation, in particular the
development of a private surveyor industry, private notaries, and
possibly private real estate valuers. At the same time, activities under
the project will lay the basis for: (a) the establishment of a fiscal
cadastre, and (b) effective environmental land management.
Project Risks:             There are technical/organizational, institutional, and financial risks
associated with the project, as well as risks related to project acceptance.
Technical/organizational risks are mainly related to NAGCC's
implementation capacity, and the capacity of its regional offices and
contracted surveyors to perform project tasks according to targets. On
the basis of a pilot program, and with financing through a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) and PHRD grants, NAGCC has undertaken
appropriate technical and organizational capacity strengthening. Also,
continuous performance monitoring will play an important part in
mitigating capacity risks. Institutional risks are that legal and
institutional changes necessary to fully exploit the opportunities of the
registration system may not be adopted, e.g. appropriate mortgage
legislation, or regulations for land valuation, urban planning, etc. To
mitigate these risks, appropriate conditionalities and covenants to the
Credit Agreement have been developed. Financial risks relate mainly to
the availability of Government counterpart funds. This risk was
mitigated through agreement during negotiations on an appropriate cost
recovery strategy. Finally, there is the risk that property owners may: (a)
lack confidence in the registration system, and (b) not understand the
benefits of land registration, and thus may not make appropriate use of
it. This risk would be addressed by keeping the project and the system
as simple as possible, utilizing public information instruments whenever
possible, including an open, transparent process aimed specifically at
informing the public about the benefits, procedures, and costs of land
registration.



- iii -
Public Participation:    Project preparation involved a wide range of stakeholders through
participatory events which sought feedback on proposed project
activities. Feedback from these seminars, and workshops were
integrated into project design. Project preparation was carried out jointly
with the National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre
(NAGCCC). Other Government agencies, such as the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food (MAF), local offices of Land Arrangement
Service (LAS), the Ministry of Privatization, the Ministry of Finance, the
Ministry of Justice, the Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI),
commiercial banks and notaries, and several municipalities were
consulted. In order to establish consensus among different Government
and foreign financing agencies involved in the sector, a Memorandum of
Understanding was drawn up and signed by the Prime Minister, the
Bank, and USAID in mid 1996. Extensive public information activities,
includling regular radio and television broadcasts, accompanied a pilot
program.
Environmental Aspects:    The project has been rated as environmental screening category C.
Poverty Aspects:         The p:roject will have no direct impact on the poor as a group. However,
as the poor lack access to finance, but typically own their residence, the
project will help create collateral, and possibly capital, and therefore will
increase their opportunities for improved living standards.
Rate of Return:          An economic rate of return has not been calculated for the project as a
whole, given its "public good" character. Based on a cost recovery
strategy through fees for registration and information, the project's
financial rate of return is estimated to be about 8.5%. Given the nature
of this project, the economic rate of return will be substantially higher
than this, justifying a public sector intervention.
Map:                     IBRD Number 24285R3
Project ID Number:       MD-PA-35771



- iv -
Estimated Project Cost by Project Component:
Project Costs
(US$ Million)         Foreign     Total Base
Components                 Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange        Costs
1. Mapping Program                        0.8      5.4      6.2          87           28
2. Urban Cadastral Services Program       3.2       4.5     7.7          59           35
3. Rural Cadastral Services Program       2.5       0.8     3.3          23            15
4. Institution and Capacity Building      2.0       2.8     4.8           59          22
Total BASELINE COSTS (excl. taxes)        8.5      13.5    22.0          61           100
Physical Contingencies                    0.6       0.9     1.5          60             7
Price Contingencies                       0.4       0.7     1.1           64            5
Total PROJECT COSTS (excl. taxes)         9.5      15.1    24.6          61           112
Note: According to the Moldovan budget law, World Bank and IDA financed projects are exempt from taxes,
customs and duties.
Financing Plan:
Estimated Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Local       Foreign           Total
Government of Moldova                         4.0            -               4.0
Donors                                         -            4.7             4.7
IDA                                           5.1           10.8            15.9
Total                        9.1          15.5            24.6
Note:   US$2.8 million have been committed by the Government of Switzerland for financing of mapping and
surveying equipment. Additional donor financing for the Institution and Capacity Building
component has been obtained from Sweden (US$1.8 million) and Norway (US$0. I million).
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
Disbursements Estimates by IDA Fiscal Year (US$ million)
D  FY 1999   FY2000   FY2001   FY2002   FY2003               Total:
|IDA                  2.6        3.8         2.5        2.9        4.1    |     15.9      l



REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
First Cadastre Project
ST'AFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.    THE COUNTRY AND ITS RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
1.1     Since independence, the Republic of Moldova has shown a strong commitment to stabilizing
and restructuring its national economy. Having
overcome divisive ethnic tensions and lack of    Box 1: Country Profile
agreement on approaches to economic reform in  The Republic of Moldova shares borders with
the months directly following independence in    Romania in the West and Ukraine in the North, East
August 1991, late 1993 ushered in a wave of  and South. Its area is 33,700 km2, of which 84% are
market-driven reforms which continue to this    rural and 16% urban. 47% of Moldova's 4.4 million
day. The establishment of a national currency,   inhabitants live in urban areas, mostly in large
the leu, in November 1993, and its subsequent    apartment blocks. Two-thirds of the population are
stheilization, has given further evidence of  ethnic Moldovans, 14% Ukrainians, 13% Russian,
stabilization, has given further evidence of  4% Gaguaz (a people of Turkish descent), and 2%
Moldova's success at stabilization. :[nflation  Bulgarian. The status of Transnistria, a region
declined sharply to 11.2% in 1997, from 116%    bordering with Ukraine, has not yet been settled.
in 1994, following the implementation of tight    This mainly Russian speaking region has set up its
financial policies. The leu has continued to  own Government which does not report to the
appreciate sharply against the currencies of its    Moldovan Central Government. Transnistria
three major trading partners, Russia, Romania,   accounts for about 16% of Moldova's territory and
and Ukraine, and stabilized at an exchange rate   17% of its population. Its economy accounts for
to the US$ at around 4.7 lei. Econormic     roughly one quarter of GDP.
stabilization has come at the expense of standards of living as reflected in a falling GDP. Between
1991 and 1994 output and real wages fell by 60%. Negative growth slowed down to a negative 8% in
1996. In 1997, GDP grew at an estimated 1.1 %. Agricultural production, accounting for nearly half
of GDP, fell by 13% in 1996, due to poor weather and slow reforms in the sector. Average monthly
wages in Moldova in 1997 are estimated at about 190 lei (US$42)'. Officially recorded
unemployment remains grossly underestimated because it does not include those on unpaid leave. A
recent household survey indicates that real unemployment may be close to 28% of the labor force. In
1997, Moldova became a blend Bank/IDA country eligible for IDA financing. References to the Bank
in this document should be read to include both IDA and IBRD.
1.2     Moldova's economic reform program has been supported by the IMF through one EEF and
two stand-by agreements (totaling SDR245 million), and by the Bank through a US$60 million
Rehabilitation Loan and a US$60 million Structural Adjustment Loan. Bank operations amounting to
US$332 million have been approvedl for Moldova, US$187 million of which have been disbursed.
The first IFC project, involving a loan and equity of US$9 million, was approved in December 1996.
l     Officially published wage data are based on the Government's monthly household survey, the methodology for
which was improved in 1997 with assistance from the Bank.



B.     THE REAL ESTATE SECTOR IN MOLDOVA
Property Ownership, Privatization and the Market for Land and Buildings
1.3     Moldova's economic development is seriously impeded by insecurity about property
ownership and related institutional arrangements, resulting in a lack of collateralized credit and
problematic real estate transactions. Private ownership of land or buildings is, as a principle, not in
question. However, order and stability needed for the various actual and potential uses of land are
lacking; these can only be provided by a land administration system that creates security for property
owners and their partners, as well as for national and international investors and lenders, traders and
dealers, and Governments. Currently, such a system does not exist in Moldova.
1.4     Privatization. The degree to which real property has been privatized in Moldova varies
depending upon its location (urban vs. rural), use (private vs. commercial) and type (buildings vs.
land). Real estate, in most Moldovans' eyes, is still understood as buildings, not land. Land used to
be regarded as an entirely separate concept from buildings, more related to agricultural use than to
property in general, and 'land ownership' would translate in a long-term 'right to use'. Values for
land, be it urban or rural, are still drawn up according to principles of fertility and use, rather than in
terms of location and market price. Only with privatization is an understanding slowly growing that
both buildings and land should be part of one concept, namely real estate2 or real property. However,
government regulations currently in place, albeit changing rapidly, still discourage privatization of
land (see below) to follow the successful privatization of buildings.
1.5     Privatization of the housing stock has been very successful in Moldova. It started in 1991,
increasing remarkably after removal of several bureaucratic obstacles in 1993. By end of 1997, more
than 85% of the housing stock was privatized, ownership mostly having been turned over to the
inhabitants. Privatization of buildings belonging to enterprises has proceeded much slower, mostly
due to higher cost of purchasing buildings. As of 1997, approximately 2,200 enterprises were in
private hands, corresponding to approximately one-third of revenue generating activities. Most of
these enterprises have by now obtained ownership of their buildings, and some have purchased their
land.
1.6     Privatization of land is dramatically lagging behind the privatization of buildings, mostly
due to government regulations defining a cumbersome and costly process for registration and titling
(for more details on procedures, see para. 1.8 below). Land was only recently included in the
Government's efforts to gear the economy towards market orientation. To date, approximately 90%
of all land parcels in Moldova are still owned by the state even though land underneath residential
buildings is allocated for free to households (or homeowners' associations) owning a residential
building (or apartment block). Until very recently, privatization of agricultural land was slowed down
by registration procedures aggravated by restrictions specific to the split-up of cooperative farms
(kolkhozes). Land underneath dachas, and garden plots, is being sold to dacha association members,
as is land underneath private enterprises' buildings, the latter, however, at relatively high prices3
2      The English word 'real estate' refers here to the Moldovan word 'bun imobil', defined as "the land parcels and the
goods related to these parcels (soil, water, forests, buildings, construction, etc.) whose removal is impossible without causing
direct damage to their usage" (Land Code, Article 2).
3      The high prices set by the Government for land underneath commercially owned buildings was in 1997
considered one of the main reasons for slow privatization of commercially used land.



- 3 -
While about 20,000 dachas and garden plots have been sold to date; due to complicated registration
procedures only about 3,000 title certificates, as evidence of ownership rights, have been issued.
1.7     Real estate markets, though not functioning efficiently, exist in Moldova to some degree, in
particular for residential housing. Facilitated by massive privatization, transactions involving
apartments and buildings in urban areas increased enormously, mostly due to migration related to
ethnic and economic changes. In 1996, approximately 12% of all residential properties in Chisinau
changed hands, and the trend does not appear to be falling. Mechanisms used by the real estate
markets, however, are characterized by high transaction costs due to lack of information and lack of
title security. In the larger cities, real estate informnation is obtainable through specialized weekly
newspapers and through a few real estate agents. In the smaller towns, no such intermediaries exist.
Prices for residential housing in Chisinau vary between US$6,000 (I-room apartment) and US$35,000
(3-room apartment). Prices in rayonal towns are 30% - 40% lower than in the capital.
Real Estate Titling and Registration
1.8     Titling and registration of real estate in Moldova has, in its present form, contributed little to
order and stability in the real estate market. Buildings and land are still registered separately, data
bases are not coordinated, methodologies are not conducive to real estate market development, and
procedures are costly and cumbersome. There is no registry for mortgages or other encumbrances that
is coordinated with registration of legal rights on land and buildings.4 Procedures and systems are set
to be unified and coordinated by the National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre
(NAGCC), established for this purpose in 1994. The Agency's activities have recently gained
momentum due to increasing recognition of the importance of functioning real estate markets for the
country's economic development. However, system reform is by no means completed (see also para.
1.16, and Annex 3.1 for an overview of involved institutions and agencies).
1.9     Ownership titles for buildings are issued by offices of the Bureau of Technical Inventory
(BTI), until early 1997 under the M\inistry of Privatization, now subordinated to NAGCC, following a
Government decision of December 1996, implemented in April 1997. There are seventeen (17) such
offices in Moldova, one in each of the five major cities and twelve offices across the regions. Ever
since privatization of buildings started, these offices have been in charge of verifying ownership,
sometimes, but not always, involving survey activities, providing titles, and registering ownership.
They also register all transfers (due to sales or inheritance) of buildings and apartments for a fee
related to the nominal market value thereby covering most of their operational cost. Registration
follows ownership and location verification which sometimes involves surveying. Manual records are
kept in all seventeen offices and are classified according to building/apartmnent. Throughout Moldova,
BTI offices employ about 400 staff. The offices charge for their services and operate largely on a
self-financing basis.
1.10     Ownership titles for rural and urban land are issued by Land Arrangement Services (LAS)
offices located in rayonal administration and in local public authority (primaria) offices, until recently
subordinated to the Ministry of Agriculture (MAF) and, following Government Resolution No. 166
(February 24, 1997), transferred under NAGCC's jurisdiction. There are 44 rayonal and about 3,000
local such offices throughout the country, the latter staffed with one or two agriculturalists.
4      Currently, mortgages are registered with the local notary office. Such registration of mortgages upholds in court,
however, other information on ownership is not available there.



- 4 -
Registration follows surveying of plot demarcations which the owner has to request from
MOLDGHIPROZEM, a rural planning institute subordinated until recently to MAF, also transferred
to NAGCC, and located in Chisinau. Ownership titles are issued only once: (a) a landholder is
registered in a registry of landholders (formerly under MAF and now under NAGCC); (b) the
boundaries of the plot have been demarcated; and (c) the qualitative and quantitative data (e.g. land
fertility points, information on crops, etc.) on the land plot have been entered in the central land
registry. Manual ownership records are kept and maintained in local LAS offices, some of which are
starting to computerize their information, and in MAF's central computerized data base. NAGCC has
recently reviewed these procedures and proposed changes and simplifications.
1.11      Obtaining ownership titles for agricultural land is further complicated by the procedures
regulating the restructuring of kolkhozes (collective farms). As of early 1997, more than 20% of land
for agricultural use had been distributed to more than 100,000 individual farmers. However, only
about 10,000 title certificates were issued,    Box 2T
representing about 10% of total land distributed.  . Z Types of Cadastres
Initially, members of collective farms (kolkhoz)  A Cadastre is a land information system designed to:
were allocated, from their kolkhoz, "equivalent   (a) provide updated infornation on real estate
land shares". The word "equivalent" here refers  characteristics deemed important by the society; and
land the fact that all former kolkhozmembers    (b) provide secured information on real estate
ownership. Cadastral information is expensive to
were supposed to receive land shares of         collect, yet necessary for market economies to
equivalent value (not necessarily size). When   function. Inefficiencies arise where different
allocated an "equivalent land share", the former   cadastres are not integrated within a national land
kolkhoz member knows the size of the surface    administration system.
area of his/her land plot but neither the       A Legal Cadastre focuses on information about
boundaries nor the location. Once the local     location, delineation, and ownership.
mayor's office issues a title, confirming a     A Physical Cadastre is used for the purpose of town
farmer's 'ownership right to the equivalent land   and city planning, public infrastructure development,
share', any individual wishing to withdraw from   environmental management, etc.
A Fiscal Cadastre provides information essential for
the kolkhoz can apply, through Mayor's office, teeabihn,adteefcetoprin,f
for demarcation of his plot. The application for   land and propert taxation.
demarcation is put forward, by the village or the
municipality, to a rayon executive committee or a municipal land committee. Following their
approval, plot demarcation is then established. Only at this point can the farmer apply for a title
confirming "landholder's right". MOLDGHIPROZEM, the rural planning institute mentioned above,
is involved twice during the process: initially, when preparing the demarcation (for a fee), and then
when filling out the title certificate confirming the right of ownership to the land plot (for a fee).
During the process, the kolkhoz members have limited say about the demarcation of boundaries; while
they may offer suggestions, either individually or collectively, the final decision is made by the
mayor's office and must be approved by the Land Committee or the Rayon Executive Committee.
Agreements between the farmers themselves are not binding.
1.12     The Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI) gets involved in the process if there exist
buildings on the land plot being privatized. In this case, after submission of documents confirming the
purchase of a land plot, BTI offices register both the land plot, and the buildings located on it, as real
estate property, with subsequent registration of donation, inheritance and exchange. It has been
estimated that, given these procedures, and assuming that 30% of all members of former kolkhozes
wish to set up their own farms, it would take close to hundred years to provide all farmers with title
certificates. Due to the cumbersome and costly procedures for obtaining land title, very few



individuals have made the effort of obtaining title to their land. In rural areas, however, significant
progress has been made recently in this regard through a USAID-supported program 'Land' for
restructuring and privatization of the land of collective farms including issuance of titles confirming
the ownership of the land.
1.13    Owner-based versus parcel-based registration methodology. Registration of land in
Moldova has until very recently followed an owner-based methodology which means that titles were
provided, and a unique cadastral number was issued, according to property owners and not according
to the properties themselves. In practice, this means that a property owner would always only have
one title, irrespective of how many land plots he/she owns, annexes for each of his/her different land
plots being attached to this main 'owner title'. In this, the Moldovan land registration methodology
differed from the methodology applied in Moldova for the registration of buildings as well as from
methodologies applied in most other countries around the world. Moreover, such an owner-based
methodology complicates real estate transactions, as well as limits the informational value of a
cadastral database since the primary object for all purposes is the land or real estate itself. Ownership
is just an attribute, not the primary focus of the registration (see Annex lb comparing advantages and
disadvantages of both methodologies).
Land information and maps
1.14    There is very little up-to-date and detailed geographical information available in Moldova.
Most of the country's maps have been produced more than fifteen (15) years ago. In addition,
available maps usually do not provide the detail that is needed for effective land administration. In
rural areas, maps are available in a 1:10,000 scale, while 1:5,000 would be needed for plot
demarcation. In urban areas, the scale needed would be 1:2,000. While such maps do exist in the
larger cities and towns, they are often too outdated to be useful for cadastral registration. It is
estimated that eventually Moldova will need new maps for most urban and rural areas.
1.15    Maps are being produced by the State Institute for Surveying, Geodetic Engineering and
Research (IRCIM), recently reorganized as INGEOCAD subordinated to NAGCC and charged with
establishing the geodetic reference network and carrying out topographic mapping. Land surveying
work is mainly carried out by two large Government owned institutes; the rural planning institute
MOLDGHIPROZEM, formerly under MAF and, since February 1997, under NAGCC; and
INGEOTECH, a survey institute subordinated to NAGCC, recently incorporated in INGEOCAD. So
far, about forty small private surveying firms have been able to establish themselves. The private
surveyor sector is growing based on the demand generated by the USAID-supported program "Land"
mentioned above.
Government policies and interventions
1.16    Government policies and interventions in the sector have more recently gained momentum
in the recognition, shared by major international financing institutions, that the development of real
estate markets will be an important factor for Moldova's overall economic development.
Interventions to date have concentrated both on establishing real estate markets in general and on
institutional responsibilities and procedures for registration. A first step towards the creation of a
national cadastre was already taken in 1994, with the establishment, by Presidential Decree (27 July
1994), of a National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC) with a mandate to
develop a coordinated approach to the creation and management of a national and unified cadastre.
Ever since, NAGCC has focused on developing a framework for unified registration of real property



- 6 -
(land and buildings) in urban areas. More recently, NAGCC has started to elaborate a framework for
titling and registration of rural land, adjusted to the overall approach developed, and taking into
account the demands of farm privatization. In an effort to consolidate the approach to be applied by
NAGCC with land registration activities undertaken through the Ministry for Agriculture and Food
(MAF), MAF's Department for "Land Ownership and Reform Procedures", including subordinated
agencies (MOLDGHIPROZEM and LAS offices), was transferred to NAGCC (Government
Resolution No. 166; 24 February 1997). Proposals to simplify current land registration procedures,
and to integrate registration of land with registration of buildings, are underway. Related to a
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 11), the Government has set ambitious targets for registration and
titling of rural land, covering by spring 1998, 5% of rural land (estimated at 50,000 plots) and, by fall
1998, 10% of rural land (estimated at 100,000 rural plots) privatized through land shares.
1.17     Other Government policies and interventions in the sector concern privatization and
tradability of land. A moratorium on the sale of urban land and rural non-agricultural land until year
2000 was lifted in January 1995. A similar moratorium on the sale of agricultural land was judged
unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and, in October 1996, submitted back to Parliament.
Again, as part of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL TI), the Government has committed itself to an
ambitious schedule for farm privatization, aiming at completing the restructuring of at least 250 farms
by Fall 1998. The Government, assisted by several donor agencies, has during 1997 reviewed the
existing, and often contradictory, legal and regulatory framework within which real estate is
administered and within which real estate markets should function (see Annex I for a summary of the
legal framework).
1.18     Inter-governmental Coordination. In order to ensure coordination of activities among
Government agencies responsible for, or related to, land and registration, the Government established
an Interdepartmental Coordination Committee (ICC) in January 1996, chaired by a Deputy Prime
Minister, to oversee NAGCC's operations and project implementation. A Memorandum of
Understanding between the Government, the World Bank, and USAID was signed in July 1996
reflecting the strategic direction adopted by the Govemment in the sector. Maintaining the ICC during
project implementation is a covenant in the Credit Agreement [see para. 6.1 (d)].
C.    BANK EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY
1.19     Bank strategy and projects. Land registration and cadastre projects are a small but growing
part of the Bank's portfolio of lending throughout the world. Currently, the Bank is supporting at least
13 land titling and registration projects, with a total loan value of about US$550 million (1% of Bank
lending). There are approximately ten additional projects with broader objectives which include sub-
components for land registration and cadastre. In Eastern Europe, the Bank is active in land titling
and registration projects covering urban property registration and/or rural land titling in Russia,
Estonia, Georgia, Kazakstan, and Romania. Project preparations are underway in other countries.
1.20     Bank experience in Transition Economies. Based on pilot activities carried out as part of
project preparation, however, there is some experience with land titling and property registration in
Moldova. Also, there are several such projects, in preparation or under implementation, in other
transition economies, either as free-standing Cadastre Projects, or incorporating a land registration
component in a larger sector project, e.g., in Russia (Land Reform Implementation Support (LARIS)
Project), Laos (Land Titling Project), Estonia (Agriculture Project), Georgia (Agricultural



- 7 -
Development Project), Kazakstan (Real Estate Registration Project) and Romania (General Cadastre
and Land Registration Project). Projects are in earlier stages of preparation in Ukraine, and Viet Nam.
In addition, there are grant financed activities in Belarus and Armenia. The lessons from those
activities identify four key factors crucial for project design in the sector: (i) simplicity in design with
a focus on registration of real property rights, and consistency with the Government's plans to address
land use questions; (ii) clarity as to which agency (there should be no more than one) will be in
charge of implementation and the extent of Government support that will be needed for it to function
effectively; (iii) realism as to the borrower's existing human skills and institutional arrangements (in
particular, with respect to the capacity for coordination of mapping and surveying, adjudication, title
preparation, and issuance of titles or title extracts), augmented by training and technical assistance,
and appropriate staff incentives; (iv) integration, into project design, of agencies, stakeholders and
legal frameworks not directly involved in immediate project implementation, but relevant to overall
project success (e.g., with respect to municipalities, notaries, and the mortgage system). A!so, careful
attention should be given to preparation of bidding documents and bid evaluations, due to the
specialized nature of equipment and services inherent in such projects.
1.21     Bank experience in Moldova Experience with design and implementation of investment
projects in other sectors in Moldova has been drawn from a US$26 million Emergency Drought
Recovery Project, a US$10 million First Agricultural Project, a US$10 million Energy Project, two
Private Sector Development Projects (total $44.OM), an Education Project (US$16.8 million) and a
Rural Finance Project (US$5 million). Projects under preparation include an Irrigation Project, and a
Social Investment Fund Project. Experiences from these activities have shown that four key factors
can help facilitate project implementation: (i) simplicity of project design; (ii) active Government
participation in project design; (iii) support in project management for agencies inexperienced in
implementing Bank projects; and, (iv) intensive supervision efforts by the Bank. These lessons have
been taken into consideration in the design of this project.
D.    RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.22     In providing the basis for an effective land administration system in Moldova, the project is
closely linked to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in that it focuses on establishing a
basis for sustainable private sector growth through, inter alia, the development and strengthening of
public institutions needed in the management of a market economy, and through strengthening of the
legal and regulatory framework for the private sector. In pursuing these objectives, the project
supports two of four priority areas Ihighlighted in the CAS. It contributes to reorienting the role of the
public sector by modernizing and rationalizing the institutions related to land and property rights
registration and transfer, and by eliminating and simplifying complex regulations that currently govern
land privatization. The project would help the privatization of urban and rural land, and facilitate the
sustainable, efficient use of land, other natural resources and infrastructure. At the same time, the
project supports the medium- and long-term strategy of a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II), in that
it develops and institutionalizes land registration processes that will facilitate the privatization and sale
of rural land.



- 8 -
II.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.     PROJECT GENESIS
2.1      The Government of Moldova requested, in autumn 1995, World Bank assistance for the
preparation of a project to address the fundamental lack of ownership information and security with
respect to real estate in Moldova. Project preparation was carried out jointly with the National
Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC) and supported through a PHRD grant
(US$681,500) made available to NAGCC in spring
1996, and a Project Preparation Facility of $700,000.  Box 3: Cadastaodology delodi
.  _    .             ^ ...................... *  r The methodology developed during projlect
Other Government agencies, such as the Ministry of     preparation, based on test activities in three
Agriculture and Food (MAF), the Ministry of            pilot zones, follows eight guiding principles:
Privatization, the Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI),   *  institutional and operational simplicity,
the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, and      consistent with reliability of unified
several municipalities were consulted. In order to        registration (of land and buildings);
establish consensus among different Government and        decentralization of property registration
foreign financing agencies involved in the sector, a      to the city or rayon level;
Memorandum of Understanding was drawn up and           *  a parcel-based, not an owner-based,
signed by the Government, the Bank, and USAID' in         system of ownership registration;
mid 1996. As part of project preparation, NAGCC        *  ownership registered in a public office
initiated a pilot program in three test areas, involving  and open for inspection by the public;
initiated a pilot program in three test areas, involving  * parcel boundary identification sufficient
mapping, surveying, and registration activities, as a      merely to identify approximate limits of
basis for methodology development and project design.      ownership (general boundaries);
Extensive public information activities, including     *  registration fees as low as possible to
regular radio and television broadcasts, accompanied       encourage initial registration and sub-
the pilot implementation.                                  sequent ownership transfer registration;
* registered ownership takes legal priority
2.2      Project preparation initially focused on the      over unregistered documents;
establishment of an urban cadastre, due to unresolved  *  keep unregistered overriding interests to
institutional issues concernig rural land registration.   a minimum;
*  state guarantee on transaction based on
However, a rural component was later integrated into      reasonable value (not on first
project design due to the importance of real estate       registration) and after a warranty fund
registration in rural areas during the ongoing fartn       has been established.
privatization process. To ensure project quality at entry,
a second Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (US$1 million) and a second PHRD grant (US$396,500)
financed technical assistance; the establishment of a Project Implementation Office (PIO); civil works
and equipment for Territorial Cadastre Offices; finalization of project arrangements for rural areas;
and assistance with the establishment of appropriate business procedures in NAGCC, and related
training for involved staff.
B.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.3      The project's objective is to develop and implement a national unified real estate registration
program for urban and rural land, and thereby establish a system of clear and enforceable ownership
5      USAID is involved in the sector, through its privatization program which supports privatization of enterprises and
restructuring of kolkhozes (collective farms), however, with registration activities under simplified procedures.



-9-
rights, so as to promote the privatization of land and the development of real estate markets in
Moldova. The real estate registration system established under the project should provide: (a)
property owners with security of ownership rights such that they can sell or rent real estate at fair
market prices and pass on their holdings as inheritances; (b) commercial banks with the confidence
necessary to give secured credit against real estate; (c) the real estate market with information on
ownership and location of property as needed for the market to function effectively; (d) government
agencies and institutions with basic information for urban planning and land management; (e) the real
estate market with information on lproperty values; and (f) the private sector with opportunities to
develop in areas related to real estate registration (surveyors, notaries, valuers) (for a summary of
objectives and indicators see Annex 5).
2.4      While the new registration system will apply to all land in Moldova (urban and rural),
implementation will be carried out in phases with primary emphasis on urban land during this first
cadastre project. However, in addition to providing the methodological and institutional support for
cadastral activities in rural (extravillan) areas, and thereby facilitating rural land privatization, the
project includes registration of rural land, focusing on selected areas connected to systematic land
privatization initiatives.
C.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Component I: Mapping Program (US$6.9 million of which IDA credit US$3.6 million equivalent)
2.5      The project will finance production of new maps, and updating of existing maps, as
appropriate over five years, in thirly-six (36) rayons and municipalities6. Financing will be provided
for selective surveying in support of mapping activities, and in order to facilitate registration of real
property ownership. Other surveying activities, necessary to establish cadastral registries in urban and
rural areas, are included in components II and III. This component will support the first five years of
a long term national cadastral mapping program for urban, as well as rural areas, initially covering
about 50% of urban land and 20% of privatized rural land.
Component II: Urban Cadastral Services Program (US$8.6 million of which IDA credit US$7.2
million equivalent)
2.6      The project will finance several elements of an Urban Cadastral Services Program that will
provide the institutional basis for registration of ownership rights in urban and intravillan areas, and
storage and administration of ownership information, to be readily available to all potential users. The
elements of this component are:
(a)      Real Estate Registration Program. This component will finance activities and investments to
provide the institutional basis for registration of ownership rights in urban and intravillan
areas, and storage and adlministration of ownership information, to be readily available to all
potential users. This will include: (i) reorganizing and strengthening the existing twelve (12)
former BTI offices in the largest municipalities and rayons into Territorial Cadastre Offices
(TCOs); and (ii) support of these offices in ownership registration, title conversion (i.e.
replacement of existing certificates with new certificates), and day-to-day maintenance of
6      At this stage, Transnistria is not included in the project. Excluding Transnistria, there are two municipalities and
34 rayons in Moldova. The inclusion of T'ransnistria in the project scope (two additional municipalities and five rayons) will
be reviewed during project implementation.



- 10 -
the legal cadastre. It is expected that under this part of Component 11, about 330,000 real
estate properties (corresponding to approximately 50% of urban and intravillan properties)
will be registered over five years of project implementation (see Annex I (b) for a summary
of the registration offices to be established).
(b)      Information Services Program. To facilitate the efficient and expedient provision of up-to-
date real estate information services to all users of the cadastre, this component will, in
urban areas, finance: (i) installation of appropriate cadastral databases in twelve (12)
Territorial Cadastre Offices, including further development and maintenance; (ii) collection
and registration of cadastral information in these databases; and (iii) transfer, consolidation
and maintenance of the data by the central NAGCC office allowing users throughout
Moldova to access the information.
Component III: Rural Cadastral Services Program (US$3.7 million of which IDA credit US$2.8
million equivalent)
2.7      The project will finance activities and investments to provide the institutional basis for
registration of ownership rights in rural (extravillan) areas, and storage and administration of
ownership information, to be readily available to all potential users. The elements of this program are
different from the Urban Cadastral Services Program in that: (a) titles will be issued, through local
primarias and their LAS offices, initially without full registration and without identifying exact parcel
boundaries, based on parcel boundaries and land marks determined through decision-making
consistent with ongoing farrn privatization procedures; and (b) full registration of property ownership
will take place on a systematic basis only, and in connection with exits from collective farming.
Ownership rights from earlier issued titles will be registered over time, in the context of systematic
registration. In all other aspects, particularly with respect to Inforrnation Services and Institution and
Capacity Building, rural areas will be fully integrated into the project. The elements of this component
are:
(a)      Real Estate Registration and Title Issuing Program. This component will, in rural
(extravillan) areas, finance: (i) the adjustment of registration techniques and methodologies
currently used by primarias and LAS offices; (ii) the reorganization and strengthening of
existing former BTI offices into Branch Cadastre Offices (BCOs), and establishment of
more BCOs, organizationally and technically integrating LAS activities into the BCOs'
organizational structure, such that a total of twenty-four (24) BCOs serve registration
activities in smaller rayons; (iii) issuance of title deeds in the context of farm privatization;
and (iv) registration of ownership rights to real estate, including rights arising from titles
issued earlier. It is expected that under this part of Component III, about 200,000 properties
will be registered (approximately 20% of privatized rural land) over five years of project
implementation (see Annex l(b) for a summary of the registration offices to be established).
(b)      Information Services Program. To facilitate the efficient and expedient provision of up-to-
date real estate information services to all users of the cadastre, this component will, in rural
(extravillan) areas, finance: (i) installation of appropriate cadastral databases in twenty-four
(24) Branch Cadastre Offices (BCOs); (ii) collection and registration of cadastral
information in these databases; and (iii) transfer, consolidation and maintenance of the data
by the central NAGCC office allowing users throughout Moldova to access the information.



- 11 -
Table 2.1: Summary of targets for Components II and III
IDA Fiscal Year   1999     2000     2001      2002      2003     Total
Titles ('000) *
urban/intravillan                            5        47       78        98       102       330
rural**                                      5        15       30        65        85       200
Total                                             10        62       108      163       187       530
Cumulative                                        10        72       180      343       530
Offices actively involved
Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCOs)          2        +2       +4        +4                  12
Branch Cadastre Offices (BCOs)               0         0        0        12       +12        24
Total                                              2         4         4       16        12        36
Cumulative                                         2         4         8       24        36
* the targets may be increased at a project launch workshop based on project progress and updated assumptions.
** a minimum of 20% of all rural titles will have to be based on survey and demarcation activities.
Component IV: Institution and Capacity Building Program (US$5.4 million of which IDA credit
US$2.3 million equivalent)
2.8      The project will finance an Institution and Capacity Building Program, supporting
institutions, agencies, and individuals actively and competently participating in project activities and
to make use of the opportunities provided by the project (see Annex 2 for detailed specifications). The
program consists of three main sub-components: (a) training, including direct project implementation
related training, one-year study visits abroad, and training equipment; (b) technical assistance, in
special areas of expertise currently not available in Moldova, provided from abroad; and (c)
establishment of a Project Implementation Office (PIO).
(a)      Training (US$1.5 million). This activity will finance: (i) courses directly related to project
implementation, for all staff in the Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCOs), their Branch
Cadastre Offices (BCOs), and NAGCC central offices, including training in the new
registration methodologies and other issues related to institutional reorganization; (ii)
training for information technology specialists; (iii) intensive course in property valuation
for real estate valuers ancl those NAGCC staff involved in administering real estate valuation
thirough the TCOs (not earlier than year 4 of project implementation); (iv) shorter study
visits abroad for a geodetic engineer and a photogrammetrist; (v) one-year study visits
abroad for University lecturers in the fields of cadastre, geodesy, topography, cartography,
notarial law, and property valuation; and (vi) classroom training equipment and technical
instruments for training, for NAGCC, as well as the Technical University and the
Agricultural University in Chisinau (see Annex 2(a) for detailed specifications).
(b)      TechnicalAssistance (US$2.0 million). The areas of expertise that will be provided through
Technical Assistance (financed by bilateral donors) to develop and expand institutional
knowledge and capacities are: (i) project implementation; (ii) information systems; (iii)
procurement; (iv) accounting; (v) legal development; (vi) training; (vii) property valuation;
(viii) public information; (ix) mapping/photogrammetry; (x) digital mapping; (xi) land
registration; (xii) cadastral surveying; and (xiii) global positioning systems (GPS) (see
Annex 2(b) for detailed specifications).
(c)      Project Implementation Office (PIO) (US$1.9 million). The project will, during five years,
finance a Project Implementation Office (PIO) with approximately 30 staff within NAGCC,
to implement, coordinate, and oversee the various project components and their specific
programs (see Annex 2(c) for detailed job descriptions). Maintaining such an office through
project implementation is a covenant to the Credit Agreement [see para. 6.1 (c)].



-12-
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.1     Project Costs. Total project costs including contingencies are estimated at US$24.6 million,
excluding taxes.7 A summary of the cost estimates by component is provided below in Table 3. 1.
Cost estimates by expenditure category are presented in Annex 6.
Table 3.1: Summary of project cost estimates by component
(US$ Million)         Foreign     Total Base
Components                 Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange        Costs
1. Mapping Program                        0.8       5.4     6.2          87           28
2. Urban Cadastral Services Program       3.2       4.5     7.7           59           35
3. Rural Cadastral Services Program       2.5       0.8     3.3          23            15
4. Institution and Capacity Building      2.0       2.8     4.8           59           22
Total BASELINE COSTS (excl. taxes)        8.5      13.5    22.0          61           100
Physical Contingencies                    0.6       0.9     1.5          60             7
Price Contingencies                       0.4       0.7     1.1           64            5
Total PROJECT COSTS (excl. taxes)         9.5      15.1    24.6          61           112
3.2     Project cost estimates are based on January 1997 prices. Due to the evolving nature of the
Moldovan economy, all estimated costs are based on the US dollar. Physical contingencies of 7
percent have been applied to base costs. Price contingencies used the following estimated inflation
rates to adjust costs during project implementation: 2.2% for 1998, 2.6% for 1999, 2.8% for 2000,
2.6% for 2001, and 2.5% for 2002. The estimated total foreign cost is US$13.5 million or 61% of
total baseline costs. Local cost is estimated at US$8.5 million equivalent or 39% of total baseline
costs. Incremental recurrent costs amount to US$4.8 million over the five year implementation
period.
3.3     Project Financing. The proposed credit of US$15.9 million equivalent would finance about
65% of estimated total project cost including 70% of foreign and 56% of local costs. 31 % of
estimated foreign costs, amounting to US$4.7 million equivalent, would be financed through a
donation of equipment and related services by the Government of Switzerland (US$2.8 million), and
through funding of consulting services by the Government of Sweden (US$1.8 million) and other
bilateral donors (US$0.1 million). The Government counterpart financing is US$3.97 million or
16.1 % of total project cost (net of taxes). If additional grant financing becomes available, the credit
amount would be reduced appropriately. The financing plan is presented in Table 3.2. As conditions
of credit effectiveness, the Borrower would provide evidence to IDA that: (a) a Swedish grant
agreement has been executed and delivered, and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness have
been fulfilled [see para. 6.2(f)]; and (b) a project account for counterpart funding has been opened in
the National Bank of Moldova, or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, and an initial deposit
equivalent to at least 6 months worth of counterpart contributions (estimated at lei 698,000) has been
deposited in the account [see para. 6.2(a)].
7      Taxes and duties related to the project are estimated at US$3.8 million. However, according to the Moldovan
budget law, World Bank and IDA financed projects are exempt from taxes, customs and duties. Should such decision
change, these expenses will be entirely covered by the Government.



- 13 -
3.4      The project differentiates; between investment costs and incremental operating costs of an
investment nature. Investment cos;ts are civil works, equipment, aerial-photography, and surveying
costs. Incremental operating costs include costs for mapping (production of new maps), data
verification and conversion (title development costs), and project implementation and training costs,
amounting to US$5.1 million equivalent or 21% of total project cost. These costs are partly financed
by IDA on a declining basis. They are defined in economic terms as capital expenditures needed for
creating (but not maintaining) assets in the form of a new national cadastre and titles expected to
produce a stream of benefits over a number of years. Other incremental recurrent expenditures are
about US$0.9 million equivalent over a period of five years to support the establishment of the
cadastre, and would be entirely covered by the Government. The sustainability of the program would
be ensured through cost recovery mechanisms described in Chapter V (Economic Evaluation).
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(excluding taxes)
(US$ Million)
Local       Foreign           Total
Government of Moldova                          4.0             -               4.0
Donors                                          -             4.7              4.7
IDA                                            5.1           10.8             15.9
Total                        9.1           15.5             24.6
Note:   US$2.8 million have been committed by the Government of Switzerland for financing of mapping and surveying
equipment. Additional donor financing for the Institution and Capacity Building component has been obtained from Sweden
(US$ 1.8 million) and Norway (US$0.1 million).



- 14-
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
4.1     The institutions directly involved in implementing the project will be: (a) the National
Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC) which will fulfill the role of Project
Implementation Office (PIO); (b) NAGCC's central Registry and Cadastral Services Divisions,
NAGCC's Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCOs), and its Branch Cadastre Offices (BCOs), which will
register ownership rights to real estate, issue title extracts, and maintain a real estate database,
regionally, as well as centrally, including both urban and rural (extravillan) areas; (c) the Institute for
Geodesy, Engineering and Research (IRCIM) in its capacity as the Government's mapping agency;
(d) the Institute of Land Organization (MOLDGHIPROZEM) and the Land Arrangement Services
(LAS) offices in rayons and primarias, both recently transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food (MAF)'s jurisdiction to NAGCC, which will support the registration of real estate and issuance
of titles in rural areas; and (e) local governments (primarias, municipal land committees, and rayonal
executive committees) which will initially be the authorities to authorize registration of real property
when transferring land from state to private ownership. In addition, private surveyors, notaries, real
estate agents, commercial banks, selected Moldovan universities, and private consultants will take part
in project implementation. By March 1, 1999, NAGCC will have undertaken a study resulting in a
specific action plan to support private sector development in land surveying [see para. 6.1(g)].
4.2     The implementation arrangements are designed to make best possible use of existing
institutional capacity, provide for focused project implementation, and be transitional in nature with
respect to the functions to be fulfilled by local governments. Implementation arrangements also
reflect the project's aim to strengthen capacity in the NAGCC, its Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCO)
and Branch Cadastre Offices (BCO) in implementing cadastral activities in Moldova. The
institutional arrangements are further described and depicted in Annex 3.1.
The National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC) as Project Implementation
Office (PIO)
4.3     The National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC) will manage
project implementation, fulfilling the role of a Project Implementation Office (PIO). The main
functions of NAGCC as the PIO will be to: (a) support and oversee all project implementation,
including quality assurance; (b) coordinate and manage the various institution and capacity building
activities; (c) seek grant funding for project technical assistance (TA); (d) produce consolidated
management reports to IDA for the project, including information supplied by consultants providing
technical assistance (TA); and (e) ensure that IDA guidelines and procedures are followed. In
fulfilling its role as the PIO, NAGCC will assign, as a minimum, the following staff to undertake PIO
activities: (a) project manager; (b) assistant project manager; (c) computer support manager and
computer support assistants; (d) procurement specialist; (e) accountant; (f) legal experts; (g) training
organizers; (h) valuation expert and financial specialist/economist; (i) public information specialists;
(j) registration/survey specialists; and (k) support staff (see Annex 2(c) for more details on PIO staff
requirements). The Director of NAGCC will be designated as Project Director. In pursuing its PIO
activities, relevant staff will be assisted by properly qualified and experienced Advisors (see
description of Institution and Capacity Building Component of the project and Annex 2b), and by
regular technical and administrative staff of NAGCC. In implementing the project, NAGCC's work
program will encompass mapping, surveying, registration, issuing of title extracts, and establishing



- 15-
and maintaining mapping and cadastral services.8 The organization and main functions of NAGCC
are further described below and in Annex 3.3. Adequate staffing of the PIO will be a covenant to the
Credit Agreement [see para. 6.1 (c)].
NAGCC and its Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCO)
4.4      NAGCC's central Registry and Cadastral Services Divisions, and NAGCC's Territorial
Cadastre Offices (TCOs) with their Branch Cadastre Offices (BCOs) will be responsible for setting
up, implementing and administering a system for real estate registration, including maintenance of a
central database and issuance of real estate title extracts. Twelve (12) existing Bureau of Technical
Inventory (BTI) offices, in 1997 transferred from the Ministry of Privatization (MOP) under
NAGCC's jurisdiction, are being reorganized as TCOs. These offices already possess extensive
records of essential value to the legal cadastre and will be further developed into registration offices
for real estate. An additional twenty-four (24) Branch Cadastre Offices will be established, either
newly founded or established on the basis of former BTI offices, such that a registration office will be
present in each of the thirty six (36) Moldovan departments, excluding Transnistria. NAGCC's
headquarters and regional offices will work closely with the local Land Arrangement Services (LAS)
offices (see para 4.6 below). Coordination with local governments and with the rayonal offices of
Departments of Architecture within the local governments will also be essential. NAGCC's mandate
for real estate registration, and for issuing title extracts, will be established through a Law on Real
Estate Cadastre, approved by the Parliament on February 25, 1998.
IRCIM as Mapping Agency
4.5      The project's mapping component will be implemented by IRCIM, recently reorganized and
renamed as INGEOCAD, an existing self-financing government agency subordinated to NAGCC,
undertaking all geodetic and cartographic components of the project under NAGCC's supervision and
guidance. Currently, INGEOCAD is the only resource available in Moldova with the expertise
required for the implementation of the mapping component. INGEOCAD will also assist NAGCC in
matters related to required mapping services (e.g. aerial photography), services for updating of maps
and related topographic and geodetic field work, and surveying activities necessary for real estate
registration.
Rayonal and Local Land Arrangement Services (LAS)
4.6      Rayonal and local Land Arrangement Services (LAS) offices, currently subordinated to
Primarias, under jurisdiction of NAGCC, will support the implementation of the project's Rural
Cadastral Services component. In methodology and technology subordinated to NAGCC's guidelines,
the 3,000 LAS locations will prepare records regarding rural (extravillan) land privatization in
selected areas, and provide these to their respective Territorial Cadastre Office (TCO) or Branch
Cadastre Office (BCO) for entry in the national cadastre. Consistent processes and methodology for
registration of urban and rural land will be ensured through project coordination by NAGCC.
8       The scope of activities will depend on the actual number of plots and buildings/dwellings to be registered. It is
expected that, with project financing, between 1998 and 2003, about 330,000 ownership rights for urban and intravillan real
estate (including apartments) will be registered by offices directly subordinated to NAGCC, representing about 54% of all
urban, and about 11% of all intravillan real estate. In addition, it is expected that about 200,000 land parcels will be
registered and titled under the rural cadastral services component, of which not less than 20% based on survey and
demarcation activities. Existing records from the Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI) will be verified and used as basic data
for the registration, in particular for the urban areas. It is estimated that about 40% of the urban land will need new maps or
field work/surveying. These targets may be increased at a project launch workshop based on project progress and updated
assumptions.



- 16-
Local Governments
4.7     Local governments will be involved in project implementation: (a) where certificates
confirming the transfer of land from state to private ownership are officially certified by primarias and
rayonal executive committees; (b) regarding the rural cadastral services component, as required in the
context of farm privatization; (c) through the local offices of the Government's Department of
Architecture, in verifying existing records, as required; and (d) in facilitating NAGCC's public
information efforts.
Coordination and Litigation Committees
4.8     Two committees will ensure interdepartmental coordination and cooperation. Since January
1995, NAGCC's operations have been overseen by an Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee
(ICC), chaired by a Deputy Prime Minister. The ICC will continue to be responsible for overall
formulation of policy and coordination with other ministries and agencies. In addition, a Republican
Commission, formed in February 1997, and chaired by the Project Director, is responsible for solving
land litigations. Maintaining the ICC throughout project implementation is a covenant to the Credit
Agreement [see para. 6.1 (d)].
Implementation Activities through Government Agencies
4.9    Incremental Costs. The mapping services involving the production of new maps (US$0.8
million) will be undertaken by the Government's mapping agency IRCIM (now named INGEOCAD)
based on its unique skills and role in Moldova. Data verification and conversion services (title
development costs of US$2.0 million) involving real estate registration and issuance of title extracts,
and the creation of a comprehensive Real Estate Registry (cadastre) containing physical, ownership,
and fiscal data for both urban and rural (extravillan) areas, will be undertaken by twelve (12)
Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCOs) and 24 Branch Cadastre Offices within the NAGCC organization.
Implementation training costs for individuals in NAGCC and other stakeholders involved in
implementing the project will be covered under the project. The IDA credit will finance 60% of these
incremental mapping, registration and training costs during the first three years (Phase I), and 30%
during the last two years (Phase 11) of the project implementation period, on the basis of agreed unit
prices, acceptable to IDA.
Project Implementation Plan and Operating Procedures
4.10     The Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (PIP) includes arrangements for the timely
provision of all necessary inputs, adequate staffing of NAGCC, key activities, an estimated time-table
of implementation, technical assistance, implementation of adequate financial management
procedures, specification of the monitoring and evaluation system, performance indicators and
implementation of other operational procedures required for effective project execution.
4.11     In addition to the PIP, the Borrower is defining Operating Procedures (OP) for project
implementation activities containing more detailed guidelines for NAGCC and other organizations
involved in implementing project components, according to agreements reached with the Government.
Ensuring that NAGCC will follow Operating Procedures, acceptable to IDA, throughout project
implementation is a covenant to the Credit Agreement [see para. 6.1(e)].



- 17 -
B.    MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND SUPERVISION
4.12     Project monitoring will be the responsibility of NAGCC, contracting out most of these
functions, as appropriate. Separate studies to monitor issues related to land privatization and trading,
project related private sector development, potential for increased use of cadastral information, etc.
may also be commissioned by NAGCC. NAGCC will furnish IDA with reports on a regular basis
including: (i) quarterly progress and project financial management reports; (ii) interim unaudited
statements of project accounts kept by NAGCC; and (iii) additional information that IDA may request
from time to time.
4.13     Performance monitoring will be undertaken by IDA. To ensure close monitoring of the
achievements of project objectives during implementation, a set of key performance indicators have
been developed and confirmed at negotiations (see Annex 2). In addition, the Government and IDA
will have annual reviews to exchange views on the status of project implementation, particularly
regarding: (a) performance of NAGCC and project implementation procedures agreed upon by IDA;
and (b) adjustments in the project tlhat may be required to improve implementation of its objectives,
including allocation of financing between the project components. To facilitate project initiation, a
project launch mission will take place at credit effectiveness. Consultant performance will be
evaluated based on quality and timeliness of completion of tasks, and transfer of relevant skills to
local staff. A thorough project evaluation will be undertaken at mid-term to determine if project
design, implementation arrangements, or terms and conditions should be revised in order to better
meet the needs of the project. Final project evaluation will be undertaken after project completion.
Indicators to monitor project performance, and to be applied during supervisory missions and in
periodic reports by the Borrower, were confirmed at negotiations [see para. 6.1 (a)]. By December 31,
2000, NAGCC will undertake a comprehensive mid-term review, and refine project design together
with IDA, as appropriate [see para. 6.1 (j)].
4.14     As this is the first IDA-supported investment credit in the sector, the project is expected to
require significant supervision. Therefore, approximately 25 staff weeks have been allocated in
supervision for the first year, and about 20 staff weeks in each of the following four years. A detailed
supervision plan is included as Annex 5.
C.    PROCUREMENT
Procurement Arrangements
4.15     Procurement activities under the project will fall under one of the following four major
areas: (i) rehabilitation of 12 Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCOs) and 24 Branch Cadastre Offices
(BCOs); (ii) supply of mapping and surveying equipment, computers and office equipment needed for
production and updating of maps comprising about 1,800 square kilometers; and real estate
registration for about 330,000 urban residential and non-residential properties, and about 200,000
rural properties; (iii) technical services needed for implementing the project activities; and (iv)
consultants' services needed for institution and capacity building programs.
4.16     All goods, works and technical services to be financed from the credit proceeds would be
procured by the National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC) in accordance
with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Credits and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised
January and August 1996 (the "Guidelines "). The IDA's Standard Bidding Documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for "Procurement for Goods" and the Regional bidding
documents established for Nationall Competitive Bidding (NCB) for "Procurement of Works", as



- 18-
amended from time to time, will be used for procurement. Individual civil works contracts costing
less than US$50,000 equivalent, involving an aggregate amount of US$0.34 million equivalent, spread
over three (3) years and involving rehabilitation of 37 offices, would be procured under the National
Shopping procedure. A summary of procurement categories and procurement methods is shown in
Table 4.1 below. Specific procurement arrangements are further detailed in Annex 6.
4.17     Goods, equipment, and mapping/surveying contracts estimated to cost US$0.3 million
equivalent or more would be procured through ICB. In ICB, goods manufactured in Moldova would,
in the evaluation of bids, be granted a margin of preference of fifteen (15) percent or the amount of
related import duties, whichever is less, in accordance with Appendix 2 of the Guidelines. Goods and
equipment costing less than this threshold value would be procured by International Shopping.
Individual contracts for furniture/cabinets and office supplies (registration materials) estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of US$1.2 million spread over a period of five (5)
years will be procured under National Shopping procedure. Urban and rural cadastral and mapping
surveys which are widely dispersed over the entire country will be procured using national
competitive bidding for contract costing up to $300,000 up to an aggregate of $700,000 and national
shopping for contracts costing less than $50,000 up to an aggregate of $750,000.
4.18     Consulting services, technical assistance and training to be financed from the credit
proceeds would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines- Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 (the "Consultants Guidelines'), using the
quality- and cost-based selection procedure with the exception of individual and local consultants for
project implementation, training, and fellowships/study programs abroad for which institutions and
individuals will be selected based on qualifications.
Moldova's Procurement Procedures
4.19     Moldova has had very limited experience with international procurement practices. A
procurement law (April 1997) was prepared with assistance from the Bank as a first step to improving
public procurement. Current practices and regulations applied in the public and private sectors were
recently summarized in a Country Procurement Review Note prepared by the Bank. The limited
country experience will be remedied through: (i) the contracting of an experienced procurement
consultant, and an implementation specialist with procurement experience; and (ii) the mandatory use
of the Bank's (and the Region's) Standard Bidding Documents (SBD).
Experience and Tasks of Implementing Agencies
4.20     NAGCC, a Government entity with no ministerial affiliations, will be the project
implementing agency with a project implementation office (PIO) of approximately 30 staff. NAGCC
will be in charge of all procurement under the project, and responsible for coordinating all cadastral
activities in Moldova. NAGCC's experience in public procurement is limited to managing project
preparation advances from IDA of US$1.7 million, and project preparation grants from the
Government of Japan of US$1.1 million. During project implementation, NAGCC will be responsible
for preparing and maintaining detailed procurement plans and will handle and supervise procurement
assisted by: (a) a full-time implementation specialist with procurement experience during the first
year, and part-time thereafter, and (b) a procurement expert (12 weeks during year 1, and 10 weeks
during year 2 of project implementation), to be recruited as part of technical assistance. As a result of
these arrangements, NAGCC's ability to handle procurement during project implementation will be
strengthened. In its capacity as the Govemment's mapping agency subordinated to NAGCC,
INGEOCAD will, in addition to producing new maps, as required, assist NAGCC with matters related
to procurement and supervision of aerial photography services, and surveying services.



-19-
4.21     The emerging private sector surveying industry will be stimulated through increasing
demand for their services throughout the project. There are at present approximately forty (40) small
licensed private firms, for urban and rural surveying combined, that would be able to provide
surveying services; others may obtain licensing before or during project implementation. Five of
these firms have been involved in ongoing pilot activities undertaken by NAGCC during project
preparation. Two state institutes, namely the State Institute for Technical Engineering Surveys
(INGEOTECH) and the Institute of Land Organization (MOLDGHIPROZEM), both currently under
the management control of NAGCC, are at present not eligible under the Guidelines to compete with
other national or international firms to provide surveying services under the Project. A covenant has
been included in the Credit Agreement for a study and action plan to be prepared by March 1999
regarding the future of public sector surveyor institutes [see para. 6. 1(g)].
4.22    Notifications. A "General Procurement Notice" containing information about bidding
opportunities for procurement on the basis of ICB was published in "Development Business" in
February 1997 in accordance with paragraphs 2.7 and 2.8 of Bank Guidelines. Specific Procurement
Notices will also be published, as appropriate, in a business newspaper in the English language having
national circulation in Moldova, and in daily press with national circulation.
Financing by Donors
4.23     Photogrammetric Systemis (US$2,037,000), Global Positioning System (GPS) equipment
(US$542,000), Total Stations equipment for surveying (US$171,000), and computer equipment
(US$50,000) needed for production of maps, for a total amount of US$2,800,000, will be provided
through Swiss bilateral assistance in the first year of the project. Procurement of the donor-funded
goods will be managed by the Swiss government through a Project Coordinator, also financed by
Switzerland, according to procurement procedures specified by the donor. Sweden has agreed to
finance technical assistance consultants for a total amount of US$1.8 million equivalent. Additional
limited technical assistance will be provided by Norway.
Procurement Review
4.24     All civil works, goods, and technical services contracts valued at more than US$200,000,
all contracts for goods and technical services awarded through ICB, and the first contract for
international and national shopping, and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurements, would
be subject to prior Bank review. Any consulting contract in excess of US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures. These limits are
expected to result in prior review of about 62 percent of total Bank financed procurement. Also,
regardless of the value, terms of reference for all technical assistance and consultants' contracts would
be reviewed in advance by the Bank. This relatively extensive review of procurement packages is
considered necessary due to the inexperience of the beneficiaries in Bank procurement procedures.
Other procurement (about 25%) would be subject to the Bank's post review during supervision of the
project in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.



- 20 -
Table 4.1: Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent) a/
Expenditure Category                                 Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
ICB         NCB         Other b/      N.B.F      contingencies)
1. Civil Works
1.1 Office Rehabilitation              -            -           0.435         -            0.435
(0.350)                    (0.350)
2. Goods
2.1 Mapping and Surveying Equipment   1.450          -            -          2.750         4.200
(1.450)                                              (1.450)
2.2 Computer Systems                  1.227          -          0.592        0.050         1.869
(1.227)                  (0.592)                     (1.819)
2.3 Office Equipment and Supplies      -             -          1.240          -           1.240
-         (1.020)                    (1.020)
2.4 Vehicles                           -             -          0.388         -            0.388
(0.388)                    (0.388)
2.5 Training Equipment for project     -             -          0.523         -            0.523
implementation and capacity building                         (0.523)                    (0.523)
3. Technical Service Contracts
3.1 Aerial Photography Contracts       -             -          0.300         -            0.300
(0.300)                   (0.300)
3.2 Mapping/Surveying Contracts      4.000         0.700        0.700         -            5.400
(4.000)      (0.700)      (0.700)                    (5.400)
4. Consulting Services c/
4.1 Project implementation support     -             -          0.150        1.914         2.064
(1.150)                   (0.150)
4.2 Training and Fellowships           -             -          0.451          -           0.451
(0.451)                   (0.451)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Incremental Mapping Costs          -            -          0.850 d/       -            0.850
(new maps)                                                 (0.386)                    (0.386)
5.2 Incremental Data Verification and  -             -        2.000 d/        -            2.000
Conversion (Title Development Costs)                           (0.887)                    (0.887)
5.3 Incremental PIO Costs              -            -          2.000 d/       -            2.000
(0.964)                   (0.964)
5.4 Implementation Training Costs      -            -          0.290 d/       -            0.290
(0.112)                   (0.112)
5.5 Incremental Operating and          -            -             -         0.900          0.900
Maintenance Costs                                                                    (----)
5.6 Refund to PPF Advance              -             -          1.700         -            1.700
(1.700)                   (1.700)
Total                        6.677         0.700       11.619        5.614       24.610
(6.677)      (0.700)      (8.523)                 (15.900)
Note:  (a) Figures in parenthesis represent IDA financing; totals will not tally due to rounding off. (b) Includes
international shopping for goods for goods (US$1.7 million), national shopping (US$1.1 million), procurement of small
works (US$0.4 million) and technical services (US$1.0 million); incremental costs (US$5.1 million); and consulting services
and training (US$0.6 million); (c) Consulting services to be provided under "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997); (d) incremental costs on the basis of unit values agreed upon by the
Bank with IDA financing of 60% and 30% of Phase I and Phase 11 project expenditures respectively.



- 21 -
Procurement Plan and Monitoring
4.25     Procurement plans for major procurement packages are presented in Annex 6.
Procurement data will be collected and recorded by NAGCC. The Project Launch Workshop,
including training in procurement, would be scheduled as close as is feasible to credit effectiveness,
tentatively in August 1998. Preparation of final bidding documents, and the finalization of the
procurement plan would be undertaken with the assistance of an implementation specialist, and a
procurement expert. Procurement training of NAGCC staff will also be undertaken by these
specialists.
D.    DISBURSEMENT
4.26     All disbursements would be against standard documentation as described in IDA's
Disbursement Handbook. No standard disbursement profile exists for projects in Moldova or in the
region. Disbursements will be administered by NAGCC. The proceeds of the Credit would be
disbursed as presented in Table 4.2 below.
Table 4.2: Disbursement Categories - Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in                   Financing Percentage
US$ million
equivalent
1. Civil Works                      0.3       80%
2. Goods                            5.0       100% of foreign expenditure; 100% of local
expenditure (ex-factory); 80% of local expenditure for
other items (procured locally)
3. Technical services a/            5.5       100%
4. Consultants' services b/         0.6       100%
5. Incremental Costs c/             2.3       60% of expenditures incurred through December 1,
2001
30% of expenditures incurred through December 1,
2003
6. Refund to PPF                    1.7
7. Unallocated                      0.5
Total                               15.9
Note: a/ Technical services include: (i) aerial photography contracts; (ii) surveying contracts (including updating of maps,
as required).
bJ Consultants' services include: (i) project implementation support; and (ii) fellowships/study programs abroad.
c/ Incremental costs include: (i) mapping costs; (ii) registration and title development costs; (iii) contract resources
for PTO; and (iv) training for human resources involved in project implementation.
4.27     Disbursements are expected to be completed in 5 years, based on a conservative estimate of
time required to complete the legal cadastre activities covered by the project. The estimated closing
date is February 28, 2004. Payments for expenditures prior to the date of the Credit Agreement will
not be financed from the proposed credit. The proceeds of the Credit are expected to be disbursed in
accordance with the schedule shown in Annex 7, and summarized in Table 4.3 below.



- 22 -
Table 4.3: Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
I          TF~~~~Y 1999 IFY 2000 IFY 2001  FY 2002  IFY 2003 r        Total:    l
| IDA           |   2.6        3.8       2.5        2.9       4.1         t15.9
4.28     Statements of Expenditure. Disbursements will be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) for civil works, goods, and technical services contracts below US$200,000. Also,
for consulting firns for contracts below US$100,000, and for individual consultants for contracts
under US$50,000, disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs for technical and other services.
Incremental costs will be disbursed on the basis of SOE irrespective of the amount. The
documentation to support these expenditures would be retained by NAGCC for at least one year after
receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation would be made available for review by IDA and auditors upon request. Full
documentation would be required for withdrawals for contracts above the SOE threshold levels.
NAGCC will ensure that all supporting documentation is adequately maintained and available for
review at the request of IDA.
4.29     SpecialAccount. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would maintain a
Special Account (SA) in US$ in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The
Special Account would be managed by NAGCC. The maximum authorized allocation of the SA
would be US$500,000. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the SA would be
limited to US$300,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached
the level of US$ 1,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of
US$500,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Applications for replenishment
of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishments would follow
the standard IDA procedures as described in the Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank
statements of the SA, reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all replenishment requests.
E.    ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
4.30     Financial Management. The Borrower and NAGCC, in its capacity as the PIO, will be
responsible for maintaining an adequate financial management system. Financial management
systems will include accounting, financial reporting and auditing systems. NAGCC, on behalf of the
Borrower, will ensure that accurate and timely information regarding project resources and
expenditures can be provided to IDA.
4.31     Accounting. Accounting information submitted to IDA by NAGCC will comply with
accounting standards acceptable to IDA9. Cash accounting, used by NAGCC for its own financial
management purposes, may be used for project accounting. Project accounts will be maintained by
NAGCC separately from any other existing accounts. NAGCC, having the responsibility for orderly
and efficient recording and safeguarding of the project assets and resources will: (a) ensure
accountability for project funds; (b) maintain records of the sources of funds, and the relevant
accounts, broken down into the various types of expenditure for the project; (c) maintain internal
controls to ensure that financial records are reliable, complete and provided on a timely basis; (d)
report on the use of funds; (e) facilitate verification of these reports by independent auditors; and (f)
provide information, as required, to IDA.
9     The International Accounting Standards, published annually by the International Accounting Standards
Committee, is an example of accounting standards that are acceptable to IDA.



- 23 -
4.32     Financial Reporting. IDA informed NAGCC during project appraisal, about IDA
requirements for financial management systems, including accounting, project progress reporting, and
auditing. Reporting templates were also provided to NAGCC. It was agreed that during project
implementation, NAGCC will submit a quarterly Project Financial Management Report to IDA. The
Report will include: (a) Project Progress Report showing comparisons of actual physical and financial
progress vs. forecasts, and updated six month project forecast; (b) Project Financial Statement
together with a source and application of funds; expenditure by category statement; and special
account reconciliation statement; and (c) Procurement Management Report showing procurement
status and contract commitments. NAGCC's Project Implementation Plan will describe further the
project financial management systems and the Project Financial Management Report.
4.33     Auditing. NAGCC will be responsible, on behalf of the Borrower, for providing to IDA,
within 6 months after the end of each fiscal year (including the fiscal year of the final IDA
disbursement), annual financial statements of the Project that are audited in accordance with standards
that are acceptable to IDA'. An audit of such financial statements will include: (a) an assessment of
the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial
transactions and ensure safeguarding of project-financed assets; (b) a determination whether NAGCC
has maintained adequate documentation of all relevant transactions; and verification that expenditures
submitted to IDA are eligible for financing under the project, and identification of any ineligible
expenditures. The use of a special account (SA) and statements of expenditures (SOEs) will be
addressed separately in the auditor's opinion. NAGCC will ensure that records and accounts of the
project will be audited by an inde1pendent auditor acceptable to IDA, according to standards on
auditing that are acceptable to IDA. The auditor will be appointed in sufficient time to carry out its
responsibilities, including: (a) a review of the financial management systems at the beginning of
project implementation; and (b) periodical reviews of the project financial management systems
thereafter.
10    Moldova's fiscal year is January I - December 31.



- 24 -
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.    IMPACT ANALYSIS
5.1     The direct and immediate beneficiaries of the project will be existing and prospective private
owners of real property. However, in providing Moldova with the institutional, legal and technical
basis for effective land administration, the project will have a positive impact for the economy as a
whole, as well as for its most direct beneficiaries. The project will spur economic growth through: (a)
providing guarantee of ownership and security of tenure; (b) facilitating the functioning of real estate
markets in urban and rural areas; (c) supporting privatization in the agricultural sector by providing
mechanisms facilitating the restructuring of kolkhozes; and (d) supporting effective urban planning.
The project will also encourage private sector development in those areas that are directly involved in
project implementation, in particular the development of a private surveyor industry, private notaries,
and possibly private real estate valuers. At the same time, activities under the project will lay the basis
for: (a) the establishment of a fiscal cadastre, and (b) effective environmental land management. The
analysis presented here discusses first the project's benefits to the economy as a whole which - due to
the nature of the project - are mostly non-quantifiable in nature, then goes on to describe a sustainable
cost-recovery strategy, reviews risks associated with the project that may, at least in part, prevent the
expected benefits to emerge, and finally discusses fiscal impact and distributional effects. The
project's financial rate of return, calculated based on the assumption of a sustainable cost-recovery
strategy, is approximately 8.5%. Given the largely public good nature of this project, the economic
rate of return will be substantially higher than this, justifying a public sector intervention.
5.2     Guarantee of ownership and security of tenure. While private ownership of land or
buildings is in principle not in question in Moldova, economic development is seriously impeded by
insecurity about property ownership and related institutional arrangements. Therefore, only very
limited credit is available with real estate as security, leaving little opportunity for individual
investments. Notwithstanding the lack of legal support for existing provisional ownership titles,
Moldovans buy and sell buildings and apartments; however, in the case of legal dispute there is very
little protection for either party. In case of inheritance, the absence of legally valid ownership
registration poses an equally large problem. In providing the institutional, legal and technical basis for
an effective land administration system, the project will support activities of all those economic agents
who need security about their real property to be able to fully pursue their goals, such as individuals or
firms intending to invest in their property, to buy property, or to use their property as security to gain
access to credit. In increasing economic opportunities for individuals and firms, the project will
contribute to increased economic growth, the extent of which, however, is hard to quantify.
5.3     Real Estate Markets. Well functioning real estate markets contribute to economic growth by
improving the allocation of real estate such that profitable properties are owned by those who make
most economic use of them. Information and security about property ownership - as provided through
the project - are key components of functioning real estate markets. Real estate markets in Moldova
function, but suffer seriously from lack of information about properties themselves as well as from
unclarity about property ownership (see para. 1.8). With the availability of information on property
and property ownership, trading in real estate, as well as the facilitation of such trading through
appropriate institutions, will increase.
5.4     Rural Development and Urban Planning. In providing a coordinated approach to real estate
registration, unifying registration of land and buildings, the project provides a timely instrument that
will support and facilitate ongoing efforts to restructure and privatize former agricultural kolkhozes.
At the same time, the project will support effective urban planning which requires information about



- 25 -
urban land, in particular about the use and boundaries of plots and buildings. In Moldova, urban
planning is severely hampered by the lack of appropriate information. For example, the location of
crucial infrastructure is often only known to utility providers and not to municipalities which need this
information. Mapping and surveyiing activities as included under the project will facilitate future
urban planning and zoning and thereby spur economic growth.
5.5     Private Sector Development. Moldovan land administration has practically no privately
operating professionals. During the last few years, the first private surveyor firms have emerged; yet
surveying has to date mostly been undertaken by three large government owned institutes
(INGEOTECH, IRCIM, MOLDGHIIPROZEM). Also, currently, no private notaries exist. A law
instituting the possibility for notaries to operate privately is underway; however, there is little relevant
training available as would be necessary to support privatization of such services. At present, also real
estate valuation does not exist as a profession in Moldova. Two universities, the Agricultural
University and the Technical University, have recently taken steps to include valuation techniques in
their course offerings; however, modern principles and methodologies of land valuation are by and
large unknown in universities as well as in involved government agencies (e.g. the tax inspectorate).
Project activities will directly support the development of these three professions, by generating
demand for their services as well as through suggesting qualification systems, proposing appropriate
laws and regulations, and providing training and expertise. Undertaking a study of the development of
notarial, valuation and real estate agency activities, including an overview of the development of the
real estate market and the commercial use of real estate information, as well as a specific action plan
to support private sector development in such activities, is a covenant to the Credit Agreement [see
para. 6.1 (h)].
5.6     Quantifying expected benefits to the economy as described above is problematic due to lack
of appropriate data and complexity of concepts. The Bank's Moldova Poverty Assessment, to be
completed in 1998, will provide additional and updated information that may facilitate a future
evaluation of the project's impact.
B.    COST RECOVERY STRATEGY
5.7     Notwithstanding the project's "public good" character, its financial rate of return is
estimated at 8.5% (see Annex 8, Table 3). Project cost can be recovered, over a 35 year period,
through fees imposed on the direct users of the land administration system, namely through property
transaction fees (transfer of ownership, registration of mortgages, etc.), real estate information fees,
and fees (royalties) for maps and other cadastral services. As the project will only provide the basis
for a fiscal cadastre, but not institute it, neither property taxes nor transfer taxes have been included in
the cost recovery strategy (see section E below on fiscal impact). Once the legal cadastre has been
established, a fiscal cadastre can be built up on its basis, generating additional income and further
increasing the project's rate of return. The considerations presented below demonstrate that cost
recovery is feasible for this project, at affordable fee rates. The cost recovery strategy proposed here
is based on several assumptions concerning the numbers of properties registered, numbers of real
estate transactions, affordability of fees, and interest in information, over the years from FY 1999 to
FY 2003.
5.8     Assumptions concerning Cost. Cost considered here include the Government contribution to
project cost (excluding taxes and duties) and the financing cost of the credit. Direct project costs
amount to (excluding taxes) a total of US$24.6 million in 1997 prices, of which the Government
contribution will be US$3.96 million (see Annex 8, Table 1). This includes costs of goods and works
related to actual surveying/mapping and registration, as well as capacity and institution building



- 26 -
activities such as training. The government contribution is spread across the project's five year
implementation period, increasing towards the end. Prices of capital goods and services are assumed
constant in real terms (project cost projections already contain contingencies). Financing cost are
calculated for a standard IDA credit, administered at a service fee of 0.75%, repayable over 35 years
with 10 years of grace, with an effective commitment fee of 0.25%, in US$ equivalent. Total costs
incurred to the Government, including financing cost of the IDA credit and commitment fee, amount
to US$22.35 million, spread over 35 years (see Annex 8, Table 3). Depreciation of equipment was
calculated according to the norms as operating in Moldova and is included in the cost calculation.
Depreciation is included with respect to all equipment for the first five years of implementation, for
the remaining 30 years, however, only with respect to 40% of equipment, thereby excluding
equipment which is only used for setting up and establishing the cadastral system.
5.9     Assumption concerning Revenues. Revenues are calculated on the basis of both urban and
rural registration offices' services. Revenues are expected from: (a) fees for transaction registration;
(b) fees for provision of real estate information; and (c) royalties from the publishing of maps. Fees
for first-time registration are assumed to be zero. Assumptions on transaction registration fees were
made in relation to monthly wages and property values. Average wages, as stated in official statistics,
are low at present in Moldova, at about US$42/month; however, the figures do not take into account
substantial non-wage incomes. Notwithstanding the relatively low wage levels, payment of
transaction fees should not be an affordability problem as selling or mortgaging property will generate
incomes from these transactions. Currently, apartment prices in Chisinau vary between US$6,000 (1-
room apartment) and US$35,000 (3-room apartment). Prices in rayonal towns are 30%-40% lower.
(a)     Fees for transaction registration. It is assumed that over five years a total of 330,000
properties will be registered in urban and intravillan areas, and 200,000 titles in rural areas.
Assumptions on different types of properties were taken according to the existing records.
The project will register, among property owners in urban areas, 67,935 owners of single
family homes, 163,043 apartment owners, 13,587 owners of commercial properties, and
5,435 owners of non-commercial property, Government institutions and agencies, e.g.
kindergartens, schools, etc., as well as their respective properties (see Annex 8, Table 2). As
the registration of real estate transactions will generate fee income, assumptions cover the
expected volume of transactions; volumes are estimated as a percentage of registered
properties: 8% of all apartments, 4% of properties with single family houses, 2% of
commercial properties, and 1% of non-commercially used other properties (during 1996 and
1997, property transactions amounted to 12% to 14% in Chisinau; see para. 1.7). Due to the
implementation pace particular to rural areas, the number of transactions for rural properties
is estimated to be only 1%. For simplicity, fees for all transactions are assumed to be at a
fixed level rather than set in relation to a declared transaction value. In view of sales prices
(and corresponding mortgage amounts), the fees are initially assumed to be US$30 per
apartment, US$30 per single family home, US$50 per commercial property, US$10 for other
non-commercial properties, and US$20 for properties in intravillan areas and for rural land
plots. Over time, property markets will improve in performnance, credit will increasingly be
available, real estate values will rise and with them the benefits of the cadastre to its users".
Therefore, it is assumed that charges for transaction registration will increase over the 35
year cost recovery period. Based on these assumptions, a total of US$36 million is expected
to be generated through fees for transaction registration over 35 years (see Annex 8, Table
3).
Experience from Thailand suggests that the increase in land values attributable to land registration ranges between
75% and 200%.



- 27 -
(b)     Fees for the provision of real estate information, as charged to private users of such
information (e.g. real estate agents, developers, banks, parties initiating court procedures for
which documentation is required) are assumed to be US$2 per request, initially, assuming
requests for 4% of all registered real estate, and rising slowly. It is assumed that
Government agencies (municipalities, Ministries) will not be charged for information
provided to them. A total of US$3.7 million can be generated over 35 years through the
provision of cadastral information.
(c)     Royalties from printing and selling of maps will depend on the number of maps sold and on
the willingness of the market to pay for such maps. A total of US$500,000 is assumed as
income from such royalties over 35 years.
5.10     The project financial rate of return will be 8.5%, based on a calculated cost of US$22.35
million, depreciation cost of US$8.64 million, and project revenues of US$40.19 million, spread over
35 years. Project costs are incurredL during the first five years, and most project benefits are generated
during later years of the cost recovery period.
C.    PROJECT RISKS
5.11     There are shortlmedium term risks, and long-term strategic risks associated with the
project, mainly deriving from technical/organizational, institutional, and financial aspects of the
project and related to overall project acceptance. Technical/organizational risks in the short and
medium term relate to NAGCC's implementation capacity, and the capacity of its regional offices and
contracted surveyors to perform project tasks according to targets. Capacity risks exist in particular
with respect to property registration in rural areas, in view of the yet unclear level of privatization
activities to be expected. In order to mitigate these risks, and to guide project design, a pilot activity
was undertaken as part of project preparation. On the basis of this pilot program, and with financing
through a second Project Preparation Facility, NAGCC has prepared appropriate technical and
organizational capacity strengthening activities, including relevant training. Also, continuous
performance monitoring will play an important part in mitigating capacity risks. Long-term strategic
risks related to technical and procedural aspects of project implementation arise from the possibility of
deterioration in equipment or humen capital. These will be addressed through the implementation of
an appropriate cost recovery strategy, thereby securing funds for equipment maintenance and
appropriate wages. Assigning an international project implementation advisor is a condition for Credit
effectiveness [see para. 6.2(c)].



- 28 -
Table 5.1: Short term and medium tern project risks'2
Risk                 Possible Cause         Mitigation Measures         By Whom?
Institutional Framework
Different treatment of   * Legal framework fails   * Adoption of Law on      *  Parliament
urban and rural properties  to establish cadastral    Real Estate Cadastre is
mandate for NAGCC        a condition of credit
effectiveness [see para.
6.2(b)].
* Adopting implementing  * Government
regulations under this
Law is a condition of
effectiveness [see para.
6.2(c)].
Technical/Procedural
Surveying below target   *  Surveying firms lack    *  Training and          *  NAGCC / Cadastral
technical capacity       prequalification          Services Division
First-time registration in  * Lack of coordination  * BTI transferred to
urban areas below target    between or integration    NAGCC
of NAGCC and TCO      * Early training
*  TCOs lack in human    *  Operating procedures    * NAGCC/PIO
capital                  and project implement-  * NAGCC/PIO
*  TCOs lack in             ation advisor condition
organizational capacity  for effectiveness
*  IT related problems   * IT training             *  NAGCC Help Desk
First-time registration in  *  as above            *  as above               * NAGCC/PIO
rural areas below target  *  Coordination          * Cooperation strategy    *  NAGCC/Local
problems with LAS       part of operating          Govemments
offices                 procedures
*  Slow farm privatization  *  SALII conditions    *  MAF
Acceptance
Little demand for        *  Little information about *  Public information   * NAGCC / public
registration services by    benefits                  component                 information officer
property owners          *  Bad services (waiting)   * Quality Assurance
*  Inappropriate legis-     Targets                * NAGCC / PIO
lation on mortgages   * Covenant to Credit
*  Low economic growth      Agreement
Little demand for        *  Little information about *  Public information   * NAGCC / public
information services by     benefits                  component                 information officer
other users (real estate  *  Bad services (waiting)   * Quality Assurance    * NAGCC / PIO
agents, etc.)            * Information not            Targets
updated timely        * Quality Assurance       * NAGCC / PIO
Targets
Financial
Ineffective cost recovery    * Less demand than    * see above
over project period         expected (see above)
*  Delayed/different fee    *  Implementation      * NAGCC
structure                Advisor
*  Financial mis-        *  Implementation         * NAGCC
management               Advisor
Counterpart funding      *  Funding based on       *  Initial counterpart fun-   * NAGCC
insufficient or late        unsecured revenues        ding deposit           Ministry of Finance
12 Abbreviations used are: IT (Information Technology); TCO (Territorial Cadastre Office); PIO (Project
Implementation Office); SALII (Structural Adjustment Credit Il); MAF (Ministry of Agriculture and Food).



- 29 -
5.12      Institutional risks are that legal and institutional changes necessary to fully exploit the
opportunities of the registration system may not be adopted, e.g. appropriate mortgage legislation, or
regulations for land valuation, urban planning, etc. The existence of the aforementioned
Interdepartmental Coordinating Com[mittee (User Group) will provide a forum for cadastral interest
groups to exchange ideas and to reach consensus on such topics. To mitigate these risks, the
development, and submission to Parliament, of draft legislation to remove any effective impediment to
the enforcement by secured creditors of claims over real property, is a covenant to the Credit
Agreement [see para. 6.1(i)].
Table 5.2: Long term strategic risks
Risk                 Possible Cause        Mitigation Measures          By Whom
Institutional Framework
Once it is established, not   * No lawvs establishing  *  Proposals for laws and   * NAGCC ./ PIO
all potential users derive  fiscal cadastre           regulations will be   *  Ministry of Finance
benefits from the national   * Legal framework        developed during       * Ministry of Justice
cadastre system             inappropriate for urban   project implementation   * Municipalities
(municipalities, fiscal     planning
users, etc.)
Technical/Procedural
Equipment deteriorates   *  High cost of           * Cost recovery strategy   * NAGCC / Cadastral
maintenance              developed during          Services Division
project preparation
Human capital deteriorates   * Low wages                                    * NAGCC/PIO
=  Inadequate
management
5.13      Financial risks relate mainly to the availability of Government counterpart funds. This risk
should be mitigated through the development of an appropriate cost recovery strategy, which,
however, may be implemented ineffectively. Public information activities increasing demand for
cadastral services, and setting of quality assurance targets, will address this risk. Counterpart funding
may be in risk if based on unsecured revenues. Deposit of initial counterpart funds is a condition for
credit effectiveness [see para. 6.2(a)l.
5.14      Finally, there is the risk that property owners may lack confidence in the registration
system and have little understanding of the benefits of land registration, and thus they may not make
appropriate use of it. This risk would be addressed by keeping the project and the system as simple as
possible, utilizing public information instruments whenever possible, including an open, transparent
process aimed specifically at informing the public about the benefits, procedures, and costs of land
registration, specifying the role of appropriate government agencies and other actors involved.
D.    ALTERNATIVE DESIGNS
5.15      Several alternative project designs were considered during project preparation including:
(a) a cadastre project focusing exclusively on urban areas; (b) a cadastre project excluding map
production (component I); and (c) no intervention at all. While institutional arrangements under (a)
would be more simple than under the proposed project design, excluding rural land from the national
cadastre would ignore the potential impact which access to credit could have in rural areas on growth
in the agricultural sector, and thus oni the economy as a whole. Establishing a nation-wide unified



- 30 -
cadastre, i.e. harmonizing procedures for titling and registration of real estate in rural and urban areas,
makes maximum use of the institution and capacity building investments that will have to be part of
the project irrespective of its size. It also minimizes the risk that confusion about differing procedures
and titles would deter the banking sector from accepting the system as a valuable instrument for
verifying ownership of real estate. Including a component that finances the production of maps,
updated and new, in the proposed project makes use of economies of scale. Up-to-date and exact
maps are not absolutely necessary in all cases for the registration of real estate; however, they
substantially reduce the risk of wrong and/or overlapping plot demarcations to be registered.
Including Component I in the project therefore makes use of anyway ongoing survey activities and, at
the same time, substantially increases project quality in the reliability of the information registered.
5.16     The project team also considered the no-intervention scenario, particularly given already
ongoing registration activities in Moldova. However, the low level of collateralized credit on
immovable properties clearly suggests the need for a functioning real estate registration system. The
already existing property registries, separate for land and for buildings, call for, at minimum,
harmonization and integration such that the potential economic benefits of a well functioning land
administration system may be achieved (see section A of this chapter). In addition, owner-based
methodology of land registration used todate does not allow real estate markets to use the information
as necessary to facilitate transactions. The very slow pace of land registration to date also suggests the
need for changes in procedures and for additional investments. Bank involvement, in addition to
providing essential foreign exchange for financing of increased registration efforts, will also
encourage the necessary discipline to implement a strategic program and set and monitor performance
targets for quality of service and cost-effectiveness.
E.    PARTICIPATION AND SUSTAINABILITY OF IMPACT
5.17     Project sustainability will depend on various aspects of institutional reform, and therefore,
on the commitment of Government agencies and political decision makers to implement such reforms,
in particular the Ministries of Privatization, Agriculture and Food, and Justice. Commitment on the
Government's side is strong at present, as demonstrated through: (a) the Government having
established NAGCC at an early stage with appropriate independence and mandate; (b) the presence of
all involved sector ministries in the Interdepartmental Coordination Committee established for
NAGCC and for the project; and (c) the Government's financial commitment, as demonstrated
through the use of a first Project Preparation Facility (US$0.7 million) and a second Project
Preparation Facility (US$1.0 million) for project preparation and pilot activities. The initially high
investment in setting up a cadastral system should constitute an additional incentive to provide for the
legal and institutional stability that is necessary to continue to exploit the benefits of the system.
F.    DISTRIBUTION OF IMPACT
5.18     The project will benefit all users of cadastral information, and thus in particular those parts
of the population who own immovable property and want to trade it, pass it on to their heirs, or use it
as security to obtain access to credit. Benefits are therefore likely to be widespread. Due to the
existing institutional environment, this first project concentrates on urban areas (estimated 50% of all
urban properties) more than on rural areas (estimated 10% of all rural properties). Within urban areas,
given that already more than 85% of residential buildings have been privatized, benefits should be
spread evenly. No further distributional effects are expected. As most urban buildings have already
been privatized on the basis of provisional titles, and as registration of ownership to urban land will
follow the existing titles on buildings, the project will not substantially change already existing



- 31 -
ownership patterns. Throughout the privatization program, most building titles have been issued to
male heads of households. Yet, this did not have significant distributional effects along gender lines
as, within marriage, property belongs to both partners, irrespective of who is registered as owner, and
partners may only dispose of such property with mutual consent.
G.    FISCAL IMPACT
5.19     Counterpart funds required from the Government for the proposed project are about
US$3.96 million over the five year project implementation period (excluding taxes). Annual
Government contributions to the project represent 0.02% of the total Government revenues in 1998,
0.05% in 1999, 0.06% in 2000, 0.09% in 2001, and 0.11% in 2002, and 0.05% in 2003 (see Table 5.2
below). It should also be noted that project cost, and financing cost, can be fully recovered through
fees for transaction registration, provision of cadastral information, etc. (see paras. 5.7 and 5.10).
Cost recovery through fees is a covenant to the Credit Agreement [see para. 6.1(f)].
Table 5.3: Fiscal Impact
Fiscal Year    /a  1996    1997   1998*  1999*   2000*   2001*   2002*   2003*
GDP'2                    2247.8  2648.5 2997.6  3392.8  3840.0  4346.2  4919.1   5568.4
Annual Govt. Revenue" 2   459.3   605.7  692.8   792.5   906.6  1037.1  1186.4   1357.2
Revenues, in % of GDP'    20.44   22.87  23.11   23.36   23.61   23.86   24.12    24.40
Government Counterpart
Contribution2.                             0.15    0.38    0.56    0.92      1.27     0.69
Government Counterpart
Contribution, in % of                      0.02    0.05    0.06    0.09    0.11       0.05
Government revenues '
As per IMF; 2 in million US$; * estimates
/a According to Moldovan Fiscal Years
5.20     Once successfully implemented, the project will be the basis for substantial revenue
increases to the Government in the medium term as it will provide the basis for improving the
collection on real estate taxes (not included in this analysis). Currently, revenues from property taxes
(taxes on buildings) amount to less than 0.6% of total tax revenues, an amount that could possibly be
at least doubled if an appropriate system of property valuation were established. Revenues from
property taxes vary across countries but may amount up to 3% of government revenues and are
typically crucial instruments for financing urban service provision. Undertaking a study, including a
strategy and specific action plan on the introduction of a fiscal cadastre, as well as a system for the
introduction of property valuation in the cadastral registration system, is a covenant in the Credit
Agreement [see para. 6.1 (k)].
5.21     Under Moldova's current system, revenues depend on the value of a property as set forth in
a Law on Normative Prices of January 1, 1994. Such system is difficult to update and administer, and
hard to enforce. The law defines the values of buildings according to which their owners are taxed
(land is not taxed except for agricultural land), not taking into account market values or reference
values. Rates are set by local governments which receive 90% of the property tax revenues.
Individuals pay between 0.15% and 0.4% of a property's value, depending on their location and on the
type of property (residential housing, dacha/garage, enterprise). Legal entities pay between 0.1%
(industrial activity) and I% (gastronomy) of the value of their buildings as shown in their annual tax



- 32 -
statements. In addition, property owners are also taxed upon any property transaction that is certified
by a govemment institution. Transactions involving relatives of the property owners are taxed up to
1% of the transactions value, other transactions are taxed up to 12% of the transaction value. The
declared property values which are the basis for the tax calculation are widely believed to amount to
less than the actual values.
H.    POVERTY IMPACT
5.22     The project will have no direct impact on the poor as a group. However, as the poor lack
access to finance, but typically own their residence, the project will help create collateral, and possibly
capital, and therefore will increase their opportunities for improved living standards.
I.     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.23     The project has been assigned to environmental category C. It will have a positive effect
on the environment by providing reliable and current land informnation, which will assist in the
preparation and enforcement of environmental protection programs and identification of polluters.
Private land ownership, which the project would support, is expected to foster prudent use of land and
natural resources.



- 33 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.    AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.1     The following agreements were reached during Credit negotiations:
(a)     Agreement was reached on the indicators to monitor project performance [see para. 4.13];
(b)     Arrangements for project implementation were agreed upon, including implementation plan,
procurement and disbursement arrangements, reporting requirements, and supervision
schedule [see paras. 4.12, 4.13, and 4.14, Sections IV.C and IV.D];
(c)     During project implementation, the Government will maintain, at all times, a Project
Implementation Office (PIO) within NAGCC, with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to IDA, and with a Project Manager and key staff with qualifications, experience and terms
of reference satisfactory to IDA [see paras. 2.8(c) and 4.3];
(d)     During project implementation, the Interdepartmental Coordination Committee, chaired by
the Deputy Prime Minister, will be maintained at all times to coordinate project
implementation, with members and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (see paras. 1.18
and 4.8];
(e)     The Government will ensure that NAGCC and its subordinated offices at all times follow the
Operating Procedures, and that NAGCC follows the operational reporting and accounting
system for the PIO [see para. 4.11];
(f)     The Government will ensure that fees are charged for registration and cadastral services and
measures are taken to achieve full cost recovery in accordance with a methodology agreed
with IDA and set out in thie Operating Procedures [see para. 5.19];
(g)     By March 1, 1999, a study of the development of surveying activities will have been
undertaken, with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, which shall include the preparation
of a specific action plan to support private sector development in land surveying. The study
will be furnished to IDA no later than July 1, 1999 [see paras. 4.1 and 4.21];
(h)     By July 1, 1999, a study of the development of notarial, valuation and real estate agency
activities will have been undertaken, including an overview of the development of the real
estate market and the commercial use of real estate information, with terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA, and including the preparation of a specific action plan to support private
sector development in such activities. The study will be furnished to IDA no later than
September 1, 1999 [see para. 5.5];
(i)     By December 31, 1999, the Government will submit draft legislation to its Parliament,
satisfactory to IDA, to rernove any effective impediments to the enforcement by secured
creditors of claims over real property [see para. 5.12];
(j)     For the mid-term review, the Government, by October 31, 2000, will prepare, and furnish to
IDA, a report, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities undertaken with respect to the project's progress. The
Government will review the report with IDA by December 31, 2000, setting out measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the achievement of its
objectives during the period following this mid-term review [see para. 4.13];
(k)     By July 1, 2001, the Government will undertake a study on the introduction of a fiscal
cadastre, with terms of reTference satisfactory to IDA, including a strategy and specific action



- 34 -
plan, and including proposals for a system to introduce property valuation in the cadastral
information system. The study will be furnished to IDA no later than September 1, 2001
[see para. 5.20].
B.    CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
6.2    Following the signing of the Credit Document, in addition to the conditions of effectiveness
set out in IDA's General Conditions, the following additional conditions must be fulfilled by the
Borrower:
(a)   A Project Account for counterpart funding shall have been opened by the Borrower
and an initial deposit equivalent to at least 6 months' worth of Government contributions
(estimated at lei 698,000) shall have been deposited in the account [see para. 5.13].
(b)   The Cadastre law shall have been adopted by the Parliament of the Borrower together
with all necessary amendments to existing legislation [see Table 5.1];
(c)   Implementing regulations under the Cadastre Law acceptable to the Bank shall have
been adopted by the Government of the Borrower [see Table 5.11;
(d)   The Project Implementation Office shall have been established within NAGCC and a
Project Manager, a Project Implementation Advisor and key staff shall have been appointed
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank [see para.
5.11];
(e)   Operating Procedures, acceptable to the Bank, shall have been adopted by NAGCC
and a reporting and accounting system, acceptable to the Bank, shall have been established
within the PIO [see para. 4.11]; and
(f)   A Swedish grant agreement shall have been executed and delivered, and all condiitons
precedent to its effectiveness shall have been fulfilled [see para. 3.3].
C.    RECOMMENDATION
6.3     With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 11.5 million (US$15.9 million equivalent) at standard IDA terms, payable in
thirty-five years, including ten years of grace. The Borrower would be the Republic of Moldova.



- 35 -                                   Annex I
1.  FRAMEWORK FOR A LEGAL CADASTRE
(a)  LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITIES
Current Situation
1.     Improvement of the legal framework related to all aspects of real property is essential for the
development of a strong real estate market in Moldova. The ability to fully achieve the objectives of
the First Cadastre Project is affectecl by issues resulting from many existing laws and regulations.
These range from fundamental issues surrounding privatization and registration of land, buildings, and
condominiums (apartments) through to aspects of statutes that define functional accountabilities for
day to day processing. Many of these issues need to be resolved before the project can become fully
operational. Consequently, effort has been, and will continue to be, directed at the legal framework of
real estate ownership and registration.
2.     Activities that have been undertaken to date include: (a) analysis of Moldovan legislation
against a background of legislation in mature market economies and relevant legislation in Eastern
Europe; (b) identification of new legislation and changes to existing legislation and regulations that
will be required to effectively achieve the objectives of the project (real estate registration); and (c)
preparation of a comprehensive new law and regulations to establish a national system of unified
registration of title and of a set of legislative and regulatory amendments to existing laws to remove
obstacles impeding the development of a real estate market.
3.     These activities have been undertaken primarily as part of project preparation and pilot work,
and through USAID funded initiatives regarding privatization of land under privatized objects, and
farm restructuring. Consultations hfave occurred with those ministries and agencies most affected by
the proposed changes.
Status of Activities Underway
4.     The existing land registration system, recently transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food (MAF) to National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC), is unable to
cope with the present workload. In addition, the workload with respect to rural land is expected to
increase rapidly due to expansion of farm restructuring activities across the country, and the fact that
the Constitutional Court has declared the moratorium on (agricultural) land sale unconstitutional
(October 2, 1996). In order to streamline present title issuance procedures, amendments, additions or
exclusions to several laws and government regulations have been proposed to the government through
the USAID funded privatization initiative.' The most important goal of these amendments is to bring
the operational surveying, registration, title issuance, and transfer responsibilities to the level of the
rayon and primarias, and in particular to avoid, to the extent possible, expensive and time-consuming
activities before titles can be issued.
I      Amendments, additions or exclusions to: (a) Land Code; (b) Law on Local Public Administration; (c) State
Regulation of Land Ownership Regime; (d) State Land Cadastre, and Land Monitoring; (e) Law on the Normative Price of
Land; (f) Provisional Regulation on Sale and Purchase of Land; (g) Governmental Decision on Approving the Unique
Models of Documents Confirming the Right of Ownership, Possession and Use. no. 449; (h) Regulation on Land Allocation;
(i) Regulation on the Contents of General Land Cadastre Documentation; and (j) Regulation of Relations between Cadastre
Database and Information Users.



- 36 -                                 Annex 1
5.     Regulation of different possible forms of holding real estate ('land tenure') at present in
Moldova can be found in different laws and regulations, but is incomplete. Several forms of real
estate rights that are normal in Roman Law countries are missing from the Moldovan Civil Code (of
1964). These rights will be needed now that more real estate is being transferred to private ownership
(e.g. easements, superficio/right to own building on someone else's land, condominium rights, etc.).
A comprehensive list of real estate rights has to be available, including what rights can and must be
registered. A draft condominium law is under consideration in Parliament, but may require
modification in order to more effectively regulate issues related to the registration of multi-story
buildings, privatized apartments, etc.
6.     Now that land privatization is gaining momentum, and the relevant regulations are being
revised, more attention can be given to transactions between private entities forming the real estate
market. To date relatively little attention has been given to this subject. For these transactions, it is
important to know the extent of the rights individuals possess, the procedures for transfer, and the
manner in which security of title will be achieved (i.e. registration). The few regulations that currently
deal with transfer of private real estate rights reflect a detailed and extensive involvement of the
government. The authorities have a pre-emption right for every sale of land, for every transaction one
needs to acquire detailed information from a central government database ("Cadastru"), and any
change of a parcel (e.g. subdivision) will need to be prepared through surveying by an institute
(MOLDGHIPROZEM) recently transferred from MAF to NAGCC. Apart from the time and resource
demands this poses for private owners in executing their rights, the administrative burden on the
authorities will be unmanageable once the real estate market develops.
7.     The following new legislation and related legal documentation has been developed as a part of
project preparation of the proposed First Cadastre Project: (a) the Law on Real Estate Cadastre,
approved by the Parliament on February 25, 1998; (b) necessary amendments to existing legislation;
and (c) related implementation regulations, including a transitional process from existing registration
at the primaria level to registration at regional Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCO), instructions for
preparing title certificates (extracts of the registration), functional accountabilities, and operational
procedures.
8.    In parallel with these activities, the Government and the Ministry of Justice have presented
legislation to Parliament that will enable notaries to establish themselves in private practice. The
notaries play, and will continue to play, an important role in undertaking real estate transactions. In
drafting agreements they will be liable to their clients if they fail to fulfill their role with due diligence.
Use of a notary will become compulsory (Latin Notary system). The notaries will be financially
independent, but operate under the strict control of a Chamber of Notaries.
9.     New legislation has recently been enacted with regard to collateral and bankruptcy. While
these two new laws are not very coherent, they do create an improved framework for mortgaging real
estate. However, several (social) protective regulations make foreclosure on mortgaged residential
houses almost impossible. For the new Law on Real Estate Cadastre to be fully effective, the present
registration procedures for collateral (at the notary's office) will need minor modifications
10.    As part of project preparation, amendments have been prepared to existing legislation
necessary to provide a more efficient system of privatization of land and the issuance of title
certificates and to facilitate the development of an improved system of registration of real estate rights
and real estate transactions. These include amendments to the Civil Code, the Land Code, Law on



- 37 -                                  Annex I
Local Public Administration, Law on State Regulation of Land Ownership Regime, State Land
Cadastre and Land Monitoring, Law on Normative Price of Land, Provisional Regulation on Sale and
Purchase of Land, Regulation on Land Allocation, Law on Property, and Law on Privatization.
11.    The major effects of these legal activities will be to: (a) establish real estate registration as a
unified process, able to provide for the issuance of "unified" titles (land and associated immovable
structures); (b) establish NAGCC as the primary entity within real estate registration and related
operations; (c) decentralize registry operations to the rayonal level; (d) stimulate private firms and
individuals to provide professional services, such as surveying and notarial services, in support of
owners of real estate; (e) base registration on the land parcel rather than on the owner; (f) speed up
and simplify processes related to real estate registration, such as title (registration extract) issuance,
and eliminate the need for geodetic surveys to always be undertaken prior to the privatization of land
lots; (g) over time reduce the involvement of the state in determining the price of land (eliminate it
eventually as the market develops); and (h) make real estate readily available as collateral.
Future Activities
12.    The Law on Real Estate Cadastre is a cornerstone for the new real estate registration and
cadastre system, ained at providing more security of property rights for owners, and access to
financing through collateralization of their real estate.iTsEN



- 38 -                                 Annex I
(b) METHODOLOGIES FOR REAL ESTATE REGISTRATION
Nine reasons why parcel-based registration is more efficient than owner-based
registration
Whether for legal, real property tax, or land management cadastre purposes, the primary object for all
purposes is the land or real estate itself. Other information is then collected about that primary land or
real estate object or entity, including the persons using or owning the real estate, the encumbrances
about that real estate, the land area, the actual land use, its planned use, and its address. The
ownership is just another attribute, not the primary focus. For many land management purposes, the
actual ownership information is not even necessary for the system to be useful.
For real estate legal registration purposes, the main reasons for basing the system on the real estate
parcel itself (rather than on the owner) are:
1.     Real estate parcels in cities have a life span of at least 50 years on average, while owners
last just 10 years or less (they sell the parcel and buy another). It is therefore more useful and
practical to hold information about real estate regarding parcels of land, rather than the land holders of
the property.
2.     Parcel-based real estate registration systems are more likely to avoid duplication or
omission of parcels. A clear geographic picture of every property emerges only on the basis of a
parcel based system. This provides more security to every owner and allows local governments to
ensure that no properties go unrecorded; therefore taxation is more equitable.
3.     In real estate transactions, it is the real estate itself that is the object of sale - not the
buyers or sellers. Therefore, it is necessary for the buyer to have information about all facets of the
real estate parcel itself and not about the seller. This includes: the property rights associated with the
parcel; its planned and current land use; its current property tax due for that real estate parcel and tax
payment information; its land planning, zoning and building restrictions; whether the real estate is the
subject of a court case, and so on.
4.     Encumbrances concerning real estate, continue to be applicable to the land or real
estate, not with the owner, at the time of a sale. This includes an easement, a mortgage, a lease,
real property tax obligations, etc. In person-based systems, this encumbrance information is typically
difficult to access or to ensure that they do not apply or have been complied with, and to ensure that
they are transferred appropriately at the time of transfer of the property.
5.     A person-based system is inefficient in a land market system - the transaction costs and
risks are greater for all parties. This is clear, since in many countries lawyers fees for conducting a
real estate sale within a person-based system are more expensive than a parcel system. This results
from the fact that people-based systems involve searching through records to ascertain the identity of
the true owner of the real property rights, and to determine the encumbrances. Also, the risks are
greater for lawyers in these systems, as they certify whether the property rights are satisfactory for
purchase by their clients - if wrong they are liable.



- 39 -                                Annex l
6.    Land management functions such as planning, building standards control, crop
planning, and land use planning are all possible with parcel-based systems - they are nearly
impossible with people-based systems. This information is accessed in all cases in developed
countries through the real estate records itself, not the current owner. It comes from multiple sources -
the real estate registry, local govermnent, and utility agencies. Clearly it would be illogical to hold
planning information about real estate in terms of owners who change every 10 years. Many of these
agencies hold the information based on a unique parcel identifier to allow simple cross-referencing of
information between agencies. Computerization of any of these functions is only possible on the basis
of a parcel-based approach.
7.    Real property tax systems at a local government level are better undertaken with a
parcel-based system: the object of valuation is the real estate object and this is required to be
valued at least every five years, sometimes every year. This is typically a local government tax.
The overall total tax possible is assessed based on the tax on a total tax roll. A complete real property
tax list of values is required and then assessed to determine the amount of the tax which will be paid.
Ownership information is secondary.
8.    Worldwide in industrialized countries over the last 100 years - when new systems have
been introduced, they have been parcel-based systems, not person-based systems. Romania
recently introduced a parcel-based system (using Austria and its grundbuck [land book] system as an
example), as did Estonia (using Germany as an example), and Kazakstan. Others include Scotland (in
1980); England and Wales (1926); Indonesia (1960); Thailand (1900); Singapore (1950s) and so on.
France introduced parcel-based systems (the Torrens systems from Australia) into its French-speaking
countries in the 1940s and 50s, rather than its own poor "transcription inscription system," a people-
based system.
9.    A parcel-based system allows efficient, simple, and complete information about that
parcel to be recorded over a long lperiod of time - 50 to 100 years; this is not possible with
owner-based systems, as the records become cluttered with outdated people-based information.
Parcel-based systems are designed for ease of secure transactions at minimum cost.



-40 -                                 Annex 2
2.  INSTITUTION AND CAPACITY BUILDING
1.  Enabling institutions, agencies, and individuals to actively and competently participate in project
activities and to make use of the opportunities provided by the project will be crucial for the project to
achieve its objectives. The Institutional Strengthening Program (Component IV) consists of three
different sub-components: (a) Training, including courses directly related to project implementation,
one-year study visits abroad, and training equipment; (b) Technical Assistance, in special areas of
expertise currently not available in Moldova; and (c) the Project Implementation Office.
Specifications and cost estimates are provided below.
(a) TRAINING
2.  The following Training Activities will take place during project implementation:
(i)    Start-up training would take place before effectiveness and should include initial training, in
procedural, technical and IT issues, for managers of the Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCOs)
and their key staff, as well as for surveyors and land arrangement experts. These courses
would take place in Chisinau. Also, about 250 staff of primarias in rural areas would be
provided with 4 weeks of training, arranged for in regional centers as well as in Chisinau,
covering an introduction to new methodologies and procedures of cadastral registration. The
total cost of this start-up training is estimated to amount to US$67,763.
(ii)    Courses directly related to project implementation, for all staff in the Territorial Cadastre
Offices (TCOs), their Branch Cadastre Offices, and in NAGCC central offices, including
training in the new registration methodologies and other issues related to institutional
reorganization. Courses would also include additional training modules for IT staff. It is
suggested that courses be held in Chisinau and facilities be rented from other institutions, e.g.
the Technical University, so as to set up a Training Center. Estimated cost covers fees for the
instructors, rent for facilities, course materials and subsistence costs for those course
participants that must travel to Chisinau from elsewhere. Costs will amount to: year 1: US$
34,193; year 2: US$16,779; year 3: US$3,800; year 4: US$1,819; year 5: US$ 1,047. Total
cost would be US$57,638.
(iii)   Trainingfor Information Technology Specialists. Additional training modules for IT staff is
recommended during the first year of project implementation. The estimated cost for such
modules is estimated at US$ 3,174.
(iv)   Crash Course in property valuation. A special course for real estate valuers and those
NAGCC staff involved in administering real estate valuation through the Territorial Cadastre
Offices is suggested to take place not earlier than year 4 of project implementation. The
estimated cost for such a course, including cost for foreign valuation specialists, is estimated
atUS$ 157,546
(v)    Short study visits for one geodetic engineer (one week visit abroad, estimated at US$1,400)
and for one photogrammetrist (three months attachment to a specialist firm abroad, estimated
at US$12,000), abroad are recommended for shorter and longer time periods.
(vi)   One year study visits abroad for lecturers from the Agricultural University's and the
Technical University's Cadastral Engineer Programs, as well as for lecturers specializing in
real estate / notarial law and economists specializing in property valuation (not earlier than
year 2). Such study visits abroad are recommended for three lecturers during each of the



-41 -                                 Annex 2
years of project implementation. Costs are estimated at US$25,000 per participant per year.
Lecturers should be younger than 40 years of age, with appropriate language capacities.
(vii)   Training equipment.
(a) For project implementation-related training, a computer laboratory and classroom
equipment would need to be purchased during year I of project implementation. Cost are
estimated at US$52,525.
(b) For a crash course in valuation suggested for year 4 of project implementation, appropriate
equipment is recommended, estimated to cost US$89,000.
(c) Equipment, for both Moldovan universities operating a Cadastral Engineering Program
(the Agricultural University and the Technical University), for appropriate computer
laboratories and classrooms. The cost of appropriate equipment for the university programs is
estimated at US$77,000 each.
(d) Scientific instruments for a laboratory for the joint use of staff and students of both
universities' cadastre programs. The cost of appropriate equipment is estimated at
US$221,763.
Summary of Training Costs
year I   year 2   year 3    year 4    year 5   TOTAL
BASE COST
Project Related Training  101,956   16,779    3,800    1,819   158,593     282,947
Study Abroad              88,400   75,000    75,000    75,000    75,000    388,400
Equipment                428,288                      89,000               495,525
TOTAL                                                                     1,166,872
TOTAL incl. contingencies  673,586  103,802   91,264   197,236   285,348  1,351,236



- 42 -                                   Annex 2
(b)  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The following table summarizes the thirteen (13) areas of expertise in which the project will provide
support through technical assistance. Cost-estimates are based on the assumption that this expertise
will be obtained from outside Moldova, but that the share of foreign involvement will be phased out
during project implementation.
(i;  mli  US:I:.D)
Project Implementation Support to (a)  One international consultant,  1998/1999: 0.182
develop, and continue to adjust,     full-time for the first year, and  1999/2000: 0.042
I   appropriate business procedures for   for eight weeks each during the  2000/2001: 0.042
NAGCC's diverse activities; (b) develop,  following three years.     2001/2002: 0.042
and continue to adjust, a human resource
strategy appropriate for project
implementation; (c) define appropriate
internal performance benchmarks
enabling NAGCC to monitor its own
implementation efforts; and (d) assist
NAGCC in all implementation-related
conceptual and practical matters.                                   Total:      0.308
Computer Systems Installation and    One international consultant,   1998/1999: 0.105
Enhancement Support to NAGCC         full-time for the first year, and  1999/2000: 0.031
2   computer specialists in maintaining and    for six weeks each during the  2000/2001: 0.032
updating the cadastral information   following two years.
systems                                                             Total:      0.168
Procurement Support to NAGCC in      One international consultant,   1998/1999: 0.055
3   preparing competitive bidding procedures  with experience in Bank     1999/2000: 0.045
during project start-up, and training PIO    procurement, for 12 weeks
staff appropriately.                 during the first year of project
implementation, and for 10
weeks during the second year.  Total:     0.100
Accounting Support to NAGCC in       One international consultant,   1998/1999: 0.037
4   setting up appropriate accounts and   with experience in Bank         1999/2000: 0.010
procedures during project start-up, and    reporting requirements, for 8
training PIO staff appropriately     weeks during the first year of
project implementation, and for
2 weeks during the second year.    Total:  0.047
Legal Development Support in the     One international consultant, for    1998/1999: 0.037
5   development of proposals for legal acts   eight weeks each, during all five    1999/2000: 0.038
and regulations, or the refinement thereof, years of project implementation.    2000/2001: 0.038
that will clarify, strengthen, and sustain                          2001/2002: 0.038
the introduction of a full range of                                 2002/2003: 0.038
property rights in real estate (mortgages,
mortgage registration, transactions, etc.)                           Total:     0.189



-43 -                                    Annex 2
Type of Assistance                     Timing               Minimum Expected
Cost
;_____. ________________________                                     (in   m illion   IUSD)
Training Support to NAGCC in         One international consultant, for    1998/1999: 0.046
6   developing a training strategy and   ten weeks during the first year of   1999/2000: 0.028
separate training modules, and in    project implementation, for six  2000/2001: 0.028
organizing those, including training of  weeks during each of the    2001/2002: 0.029
trainers and study programs abroad, and    consecutive threeyears, and for  2002/2003: 0.021
in quality assessment of training    four weeks during the final year
programs implemented.                of project implementation.      Total:      0.152
Property Valuation Support to NAGCC    One international consultant, for    1998/1999: 0.019
7   in: (a) monitoring real estate market  four weeks during each of the  1999/2000: 0.019
developments, in particular with respect   first two years of project  2000/2001: 0.045
to transactions and values; and (b)   implementation, and for ten    2001/2002: 0.045
developing a methodology for property    weeks during each of the last  2002/2003: 0.045
valuation, jointly with the Ministry of  three years of project
Finance and other stakeholders, as well as  implementation.
drafting laws and regulations, and
amending existing ones, as appropriate, in
support of the introduction of a system of
independent real estate valuation services.                          Total:      0.173
Public Information Support to NAGCC in  One international consultant, for    1998/1999: 0.037
8   developing activities that will increase  eight weeks during the first year    1999/2000: 0.019
understanding and acceptance of the new   of project implementation, and
registration system, providing       for four weeks during the
information to four target groups: (i)  following year.
NAGCC staff; (ii) relevant government
institutions; (iii) professional users of the
cadastre; and (iv) the general public.                               Total:      0.056
Mapping / Photogrammetry Support to  One international consultant, for    1998/1999: 0.082
9   NAGCC in developing the mapping       sixteen weeks during the first  1999/2000: 0.022
program, ensuring international      year of project implementation,    2000/2001: 0.022
standards.                           and for four weeks during each  2001/2002: 0.022
of the consecutive years.      2002/2003: 0.023
Total:     0.171
Digital Mapping Support to NAGCC in    One international consultant, for    1998/1999: 0.075
10  developing the mapping program,       sixteen weeks during the first  1999/2000: 0.021
ensuring international standards.    year of project implementation,    2000/2001  0.021
and for four weeks during each  2001/2002: 0.021
of the consecutive years.      2002/2003: 0.021
Total:     0.159
Property Registration Support to     One international consultant, for    1998/1999: 0.038
11  NAGCC in developing the mapping       eight weeks during the first year    1999/2000: 0.028
program, ensuring international      of project implementation, for  2000/2001: 0.021
standards.                           six weeks during the second     2001/2002: 0.021
year, and for four weeks during  2002/2003: 0.021
each of the other years.       Total:      0.129



-44 -                                   Annex 2
~~ ~~              k          Timing               M~~~~~~"inimum Expected
Cadastral Survey Support to NAGCC in   One international consultant, for    1999/2000: 0.037
12  developing cadastral survey techniques,   eight weeks during the first year    2001/2002: 0.021
methodologies, and procedures, ensuring   of project implementation, and
international standards.            for four weeks during the second   Total:  0.058
year.
Global Positioning Support (GPS) to  One international consultant, for    1999/2000: 0.038
13  NAGCC in developing procedures and    eight weeks during the first two    2001/2002  0.038
methodologies for: (i) establishing and  years of project implementation.
coordinating photo control points using                            Total:     0.076
GPS technology, including integration
with other data acquisition tools such as
EDM; (ii) building in the necessary
quality control techniques; and (iii) using
GPS for all relevant project components.
TOTAL, excluding Contingencies                                           1,786
TOTAL, including Contingencies                                           1,989



-45-                                  Annex 2
(c)  THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION OFFICE (PIO)
The Project Implementation Office (PIO) will have approximately 30 staff with experience and
responsibilities in areas crucial to the success of project implementation, and about 6 support staff.
The following describes some of the responsibilities of PIO staff, and the extent of experience and
knowledge required.
PIO: Description of Tasks and Quallifications                           Number of staff
Project Manager. A Project Manager is required for the duration of the Project.
This person is critical to the success of the project and hence the Government's
overall real estate registration program. This individual will be ultimately
responsible for all activity of the project, for relations with institutions involved
in related activities, and for relations with the World Bank. While it is preferable
for the Project Manager to be experienced in land reform issues and their
implications on registration functionas, it is critical that this individual brings
sufficient seniority and experience so as to ensure the ultimate success of the
project. The Project Manager shoulld preferably have good knowledge of the
English language, be able to work vvith, and co-ordinate, multi-disciplinery and
international teams.
Assistant Project Manager. The Assistant Project Manager will be responsible
for the detailed logistics and for the day to day coordinating work of the project.
S/he should have an in-depth technical understanding of the whole program,
have significant experience in manaLging large projects with numerous
components, and should understand project management techniques such as
project planning, schedule establishment and control, status monitoring and
reporting, and managing the production of project deliverables.
Information Technology. The existiing software will need continuous refinement
throughout the Project. In particular, the provisions of the new land registration
law will require some refinement o' the software. The software as developed
was suitable for the Pilot activity, but the amount of further development and
implementation for large numbers of properties will involve considerable time.  8
It is expected that three senior IT specialists and five Analysts/Programmers will
be necessary in order to manage and continuously update and adjust the
information technology used for the ongoing registration activities.
Procurement of Goods and Services. The Procurement Specialist/Contract
Officer will be responsible for all contractual work, including procurement of
equipment, civil works, leases, surveying contracts, mapping contracts, and
contracts with Territorial Cadastre Offices, amounting to several million US$
each year. He or she will also be responsible for ensuring quality of works and
approving payment schedules.
Monitoring and Accounting. An accountant will keep track of project finances,
maintain project accounts. S/he must be able to operate under World Bank
procedures and with high expenditures.



-46 -                                  Annex 2
PIO: Description of Tasks and Qualifications                              Number of staff
Legal Development. There is a continuing requirement to develop legislation
and regulations related to land and property. A two person team will be
responsible for developing, drafting and encouraging the enacting of legislation
and regulations. Particular regard will be given to collateral law, condominium  2
law, laws on leasing, adjudication of land claims, survey law, town and country
planning law, municipal building laws, and fiscal law related to real property.
Also, further development of the Civil Code and Land Code should be
addressed.
Training. Training is a major activity of the project and is the subject of ongoing
review. Many of the training recommendations will include requirements for
university programs that will cater for the ongoing requirement of changed
professions. It will be necessary to conduct significant training courses,
covering all registration offices, according to the established schedule, for a total
of more than 700 participants. The training team will be responsible for
designing, scheduling, organizing and implementing this training. As the        1.5
volume of training necessary will decrease over time, two full-time training
organizers will be required during the first three years of project implementation.
Thereafter, the training program can be supported by one staff.
Real Estate Valuation. Principles of, and methodologies and institutional
arrangements for real estate valuation need to be developed in Moldova. Under
the project, NAGCC will take the lead in collaborating with other institutions,
ministries and private sector entities to develop a framework within which real
estate values are established through a transparent and well understood process,
on the basis of services of well-qualified and certified private valuers. During
the first years of project implementation, one valuation expert would deal with
the development of principles and methodologies. The valuation expert, an
economist, would also assist project implementation by reviewing fee levels,
income generation, development of the warranty fund, and general economic       1.5
activity and viability of the Registries being established. As of the fourth year of
project implementation, the adoption of the principles, the implementation of the
methodologies, training and licensing of real estate valuers, and the integration
of real estate values in the registration system will take place. Therefore, two
valuation specialists will be needed during the fourth and fifth year of project
implementation.
Public Information. Considerable effort will have to be dedicated to the
dissemination of information encouraging public participation in the registration
program. Two staff, experienced in the field of public information, will develop
and implement an information strategy. Initial focus is assumed to be on
providing information to those living in areas identified for systematic         2
registration. Information officers will prepare surveyors as well as staff in the
Registration Offices for their important communication functions. A
considerable amount of preparatory work will go into the production of leaflets
and posters and the training of survey groups dealing with the public.



-47-                                  Annex 2
PIO: Description of Tasks and Qualifications                            Number of staff
Registration and Survey Specialist. Tasks will be to set priorities and monitor
the Survey Groups and mapping contracts. Duties include assistance in
preparing tenders, general co-ordination of mapping and surveying activity, and
dealing with problems and disputes.
Trouble Shooting/Registration. When implementing projects like these, there
are always unforeseen disputes and problems to resolve. Boundaries may be
unclear, neighbors may be fighting over rights of way, husband and wife
breaking up or children reaching adulthood can dispute ownership rights.
Problems may be legal as well as involving survey technicalities or simply     3
personal problems. The survey teams themselves usually do neither have the
expertise nor the time to deal with such matters. Three registration/survey
experts should be assigned to answering such queries, wherever they come up.
Experience with legal issues and knowledge of survey work will be required.
Registration Supervisors. Each of the twelve Territorial Cadastre Offices will be
as big as many previous projects in this field. Staff will be needed in
Headquarters to coordinate activities, ensure schedules are kept to, deal with
problems, report back to the head office, organize and supervise the viewing   6
periods., etc.. Six full-time positions would have to be filled, separate from the
actual managers of the Territorial Cadastre Offices.
Support Staff. Operation of the PIO would have to be supported by the followirng
staff:
*     Office Administration / Secretary. Due to the complexity of ongoing
project implementation activities, the involved administrative work will require
an experienced individual, with a high level of organizational skill, experience in
major word-processing packages, and with English language capabilities.        7
*     Translators. Two translators, one senior staff and one junior staff, will
be needed.
*     Drivers. Three drivers are expected to be needed for the PIO to be
functional during the first year of project implementation.
*     Cleaner (1).
TOTAL STAFF needed for the PIO                                                36



-48 -                                 Annex 3
3.  IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
3.1  (a) Institutional Arrangements for Real Estate Registration in Moldova: up to
February 1997
(b) Institutional Arrangements for Real Estate Registration in Moldova:
during/after project implementation
3.2   Organization of Territorial Cadastre Offices.
3.3.  Organization of Project Implementation Office



Annex 3.1(a): Institutional Arrangements for Real Estate Registration in Moldova: up to February 1997
Ministry of Privatization                    Ministry of Agriculture                               NAGCC
I                                                                                         I
MOLDGHIPROZEM             INGEITECH                IRCIM
surveying            surveying |               mapping
BTI                                          LAS                                          policy development  pilot
of   registration ofland                  unified cadastre
registration of                               registration of land
buildings (not                                (not buildings) with
land) with focus                              focus on rural land
on urban areas                                (also landfertility
classification etc.)
17 regional offices                             37 district offices                               private surveyors
plus headquarters in                            and representatives
Chisinau                                       in all local
governments
INGEOTECH and IRCIM have recently merged into one institute (INGEOCAD).



Annex 3.1(b): Institutional Arrangements for Real Estate Registration in Moldova during/after Project Implementation
Ministry of Privatization                       Ministry of Agriculture                               NAGCC
.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............
MOLDGHIPROZEM    INGEOTECH                 IRCIM
surveying      surveying                   mapping            en
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Note: Surveying within project             policy development / pilot
through private sector.                    unied cadastre
access to information                           access to information
Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCO)
: : ....................... ~~~~~~~~~(new) (former BTI and LAS of fices)
registration of real
estate (land and
buildings) in urban
and rural areas
lprivate uvyr                        12 regional and 24
affiliate offices,
covering all rayons,
INGEOTECH and IRCIM have recently merged into one institute (INGEOCAD)                                   plus headquarter



- 51 -                             Annex 3
Annex 3.2: Organization of Territorial Cadastre Offices
I chisinaull
1l.Riscani|
*Glodeni
3.Falesti
7Dondiushani
.Floresti
A   iniair",::i';0777inar
1. teanesVoda
NAGCE-7)   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~2.Calatemir
\ .Strasheni       I
.~~~~3 Taci
r7..Criuled             Nisp9.Foresti
012                         114.Soleaneshti
Gagauz Ed).N                        eni
~~~~~~~~~~tefan Vod
\ ~~T s arabclia
2. Comrat          21.VSteaneshti 
'   S FrET



Annex 3.3: Organization of PIO
Project Manager                                                Project Coordinator
(International Technical Assistance)
Assistant Project Manager                                       Various  ITechnical
Assistance Staff
-Ill-~~~~~.                                                            __.
Administration            Valuationl            Information             Survey SupLrvisor       Training Team                Legal            Public
Economics             Technology                                                                                 Information
Office Admin                                   IT Manager
Accountant                                                                                                                                                      en
Contract Officer                               Application
Translators (2)                                programmers and
Drivers (3)                                     analysts
Cleaner
Up to 25        Trouble-
survey          shooting
groups            team
Regional    |
Registraiton   |
Specialists (6)



4. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1.  The project's development objective is to develop and implement a national unified real estate registration and titling program for urban
and rural land, and thereby establish a system of clear and enforceable ownership rights, so as to promote the privatization of land and the
development of real estate markets in Moldova. The real estate registration system established under the project should provide: (a) property
owners with security of ownership rights such that they can sell or rent real estate at fair market prices and pass on their holdings as
inheritances; (b) commercial banks with the confidence necessary to give secured credit against real estate; (c) the real estate market with
information on ownership and location of property as needed for the market to function effectively; (d) government agencies and institutions
with basic information for urban planning and land management; (e) the real estate market with information on property values; and (f) the
private sector with opportunities to develop in areas related to real estate registration (surveyors, notaries, valuers). These objectives, the
outputs of the various related project components, and the expected outcomes and impacts were agreed upon at negotiations, and are summarized
in the table below. The targets may be increased at a project launch workshop based on project progress and updated assumptions.
Objectives                         Outpu                                                          enchmars over -tve years
The specific development objectives of  The specific results (goods and services) from    Expected development outcomes/impacts  Year
the project are asfollows:     carrying out the project, and the corresponding  from achieving the project outputs, and the  1  2  3  4  5
key performance indicators, are asfolloivs:    corresponding key performance indicators,
are asfolloivs:
(a) Provide property owners    Unified national real estate regis-  Number of urban / intravillan real   5      52    130    118    330
with security on their             tration system established with     estate registrations (in thousands,
ownership rights such that they    appropriate legal framework.        cumulative)
can sell or lease at fair market    Training for registration and data  Number of extravillan real estate  5    20    50    115    200
prices and pass on their           maintenance provided.               registrations (in thousands,
holdings as inheritances.      Legal advice provided on request.       cumulative)             .       0.3    2.2    5.4   10.3    15.9
Number of real estate transactions.
(national, in thousands, cumulative)
(b) Provide commercial banks    Scope for registration of mortgages in   New mortgage legislation              introduced
with the confidence necessary     (publicly accessible) registration   introduced.
to give secured credits against    system and appropriate legal
real estate.                       framework.                       Number of mortgages provided (%
Appropriate laws and regulations        of registered properties)       1.0    1.5    2.0    2.3      3
proposed.
I
m
x
.9h



XEi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~
The specific development objectives of   The specif ic results (goods and services)from  Expected development outcomes/impacts  Year
the project are asfolloivs:        carrying out the project, and the corresponding  from achieving the project outputs, and the  1  2  3      4        5
key performance indicators, are asfollows:  corresponding key performance indicators,
are asfollows:
(c) Provide the real estate        Cadastral information service units      Number of real estate agents.           24      28      33       36      40
market with information on             established as part of registration
ownership and location of              offices.                             Number of information requests to        2      4        6       8       10
property as needed for the         Public information about potential          territorial and branch cadastral
market to function effectively.        uses of cadastral information.           offices (in % of registered
properties).
(d) Provide government             Mapping and surveying of all urban       Number of cadastral maps produced
agencies and institutions with         areas and selected rural areas           (in thsnd sqkm, cumulative)          4       9       15      22      30
basic information for urban        Related training activities.
planning and land management.   Related information available to
government agencies for free.
(e) Provide the Government         Registration system capable of           Number of (examined) training                                                                       n
with a basis for future revenue        integrating land values in real          participants (cumulative)           50       100     150     200     250
generation mechanisms through          estate registration system.           Relevant property laws, regulations            -        -       introduced
property taxation (fiscal          Strategy developed for introducing           and normative acts introduced.
cadastre.                              modem real estate valuation           Relevant valuation system               -      introduced
methods into fiscal system.             introduced.
Training for real estate valuers
provided.
(f Provide the private sector      Contracts for private firms involved in   Licensing system introduced for        All in first year, except for licensing system
with opportunities to develop in       real estate, e.g. surveyors,             operation of private real estate       for valuers, which will be introduced in
areas related to real estate           notaries, valuers, through project       agents, surveyors, notaries,           the second year.
registration (surveyors,               implementation.                          valuers, etc.
notaries, valuers).                Related training.
z
mz
xM



- 55 -                                   Annex 5
5.   SUPERVISION PLAN
1.     Supervision of the project is expected to require 25 staff-weeks during the first fiscal year of
implementation and 20 staff-weelcs during each of the following four fiscal years. The schedule
below is in addition to regular review requirements for procurement actions, advisory services, and
general administration.
Approximate Dates           Activity           Expected Skill Requirements      Staff -
(month/year)                                                                Weeksl
08/98          Project Startup         Team Leader                         13
Organizational Specialist
Technical Resource Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Financial Management Specialist
02/99          Supervision             Team Leader                         12
Organizational Specialist
Technical Resource Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Disbursement Specialist
08/99          Supervision             Team Leader                         10
(others as required)
02/00          Superviision            Team Leader                         10
(others as required)
08/00          Superviision            Team Leader                         10
(others as required)
02/01          Supervision             Team Leader                         10
Mid-term review         Economist
Financial Analyst
Organizational Specialist
Technical Resource Specialist
08/01          Supervision             Team Leader                         10
(others as regional)
02/02          Supervision             Team Leader                         10
(others as required)
08/02          Supervision             Team Leader Task Manager            10
(others as required)
02/03          Supervision             Team Leader                         10
(others as required)
08/03          Project Completion      Team Leader                         10
Economist
Technical Resource Specialist
Staff-weeks for IBRD staff only. Additional resources are expected to be obtained from consultant trust funds.



- 56 -                             Annex 6
6.  DETAILED COST AND PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
This annex contains: (a) Specific Procurement Arrangements; (b) Procurement Information, and (c)
Procurement Plan for the procurement to be carried out under the project, including specification of
donor-financed equipment and services, and services to be performed on the basis of unit values
agreed upon with the Bank.
The Procurement Information includes: (i) Section 1 - Procurement Review, (ii) Section 2 - Capacity
of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Requirements, (iii) Section 3 - Training
and Development on Procurement, (iv) Section 4: Procurement Staffing.
The Procurement Plan is divided into the following sections:
WORKS
* Works Contracts (Office Rehabilitation)
GOODS
-  Mapping/Surveying Equipment
-  Computer Equipment and Software
-  Office Equipment and Supplies
*  Vehicles
*  Training Equipment for Project Implementation, and Institution and Capacity Building
TECHNICAL SERVICES CONTRACTS
*  Aerial Photography Contracts
 Mapping/Surveying Contracts
CONSULTANCIES
* Various local and foreign consultants
* Study Programs Abroad
MISCELLANEOUS COSTS
Incremental costs on the basis of agreed upon unit prices, acceptable to the Bank
(mapping services costs/new maps, and data verification and data conversion/title development costs,
fees to consultants hired by the PIO, audit costs, and training for human resources involved in project
implementation).
PPF ADVANCE



-57-                              Annex 6
Specific Procurement Arrangements
I.    Civil Works. A limited amount of civil works (small contracts) involving office rehabilitation
in NAGCC headquarters, 12 Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCO) and 24 Branch Cadastre Offices
(BCO) offices involving an aggregate amount of US$435,000 and spread over 3 years will be
procured under the proposed project. Individual civil works contracts, not exceeding twenty (20) in
number, each valued at less than US$50,000 will be financed by the loan and procured under
procedures for procurement of Small Works. Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts will be awarded on the
basis of written quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors.
2.    Goods. Procurement of goods will involve mapping and surveying equipment, computers and
related equipment and software, office equipment and vehicles. Contracts for goods will include
maintenance and repair, and software licenses under the project. ICB will be used for all Bank
financed purchases of goods which are expected to exceed US$300,000 per contract.
(a)     Computer equipment including UPS equipment, software and maintenance for 5 years
(aggregate amount US$1,227,000) required to meet: (i) the needs of NAGCC
headquarters; and (ii) the registration needs of the urban cadastral services program in 12
TCOs, will be procured under ICB procedures using the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for goods, in two separate bidding packages, to be conducted during the first
two years of project implementation.
(b)     Computer equipment including UPS equipment, software and maintenance for 5 years
(aggregate amount US$592,000) required to meet the registration needs of rural cadastral
services program in 24 affiliated offices will be procured under IS procedure in two
separate annual bidding packages, to be conducted during the third and fourth years of
project implementation.
(c)     Photogrammetric equipment (US$563,000) and geodetic equipment (US$90 1,000) needed
for production of new maps will be procured under ICB procedures using the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for goods, in two separate bidding packages to be conducted
in the first year of project implementation.
(d)     Other Office Equipment (that is facsimile and photocopying machines) for the 37 offices
(namely the NAGCC headquarters, 12 TCOs and 24 BCOs) for an aggregate amount of
US$ 171,000 will be procured under IS procedure in three separate annual packages
during the first, second and third years of project implementation.
(e)     Vehicles (aggregate amount US$388,000) for 37 offices (namely the NAGCC
headquarters, 12 TCOs and 24 BCOs) and IRCIM will be procured under IS procedure in
three separate annual packages during the first, second and third years of project
implementation. The need for vehicles will emerge as the project implementation
progresses and will be reviewed annually.
(f)     Procurement of office fumiture, cabinets and security equipment (aggregate amount
US$69,000) for 24 BCOs will be undertaken under National Shopping (NS) procedure in
three separate annual packages during the first, second and third years of project
implementation.
(g)     Registration materials of dilfferent categories (aggregate amount US$ 1.0 million) for 37
offices (namely the NAGCC headquarters, 12 TCOs and 24 BCOs) through individual



-58 -                              Annex 6
contracts not exceeding 30 in number, each valued at less than US$50,000, will be
financed by the credit, and procured under National Shopping (NS) procedures to meet
annual requirements during the first two years of project implementation and thereafter to
meet semi-annual requirements during the third, fourth and fifth year of project
implementation.
(h)     Under the institution and capacity building component, equipment needed in computer
laboratories to be established for (i) project implementation training, (ii) University
Cadastral Engineering programs; and (iii) real estate valuation training (aggregate amount
US$ 330,000) will be procured under the IS procedure in three separate packages in the
first year of project implementation. Further scientific instruments needed for the
Cadastral Engineering University programs (US$246,000) will be procured under IS
procedure in two separate packages in the fourth year of project implementation.
3.    In the evaluation of bids for equipment purchased under ICB, bids offering Moldovan
manufactured goods would be granted a margin of preference of fifteen (15) percent or the amount of
duties and other related import charges which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in Moldova, whichever is lower, as specified in Appendix 2 of the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.
4.    Technical Service Contracts. The following technical services contracts will be awarded
under the project.
(i)     Aerial photography service contracts (aggregate amount US$300,000) will be awarded on
the basis of International Shopping (IS) in two (2) separate bidding packages to be
conducted in the first and third years of project implementation, with an estimated cost of
about US$100,000 and US$200,000 respectively using the Regional Bidding Documents
for "Procurement of Works - Smaller Contracts" with appropriate modifications.
(j)     Contracts for "mapping and surveying services" in urban areas (aggregate amount US$4.0
million) will be let on the basis of competition under the Bank's ICB procedure, in four
(4) separate bidding exercises to be conducted annually from the second year through the
fifth year of project implementation, with an estimated annual cost ranging from
US$500,000 to US$1.2 million. These specifications could be sliced and packaged, with
provision for discounts, to be of interest to both small and large bidders. The contract
documents used will be based on the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Works-
Smaller Contracts. However, contracts for "mapping and surveying services" in urban
areas for the first year of project implementation (aggregate amount US$100,000) will be
let under the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure and National Shopping (NS)
procedure (aggregate amount US$ 127,000) on the basis of competition amongst licensed/
qualified (for urban surveying) national surveying firms in the private sector, as the
contract values are small.
(k)     Contracts for "mapping and surveying services" in rural areas will be awarded under the
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) up to an aggregate of US$0.7 million and through
National Shopping procedure (NS) up to an aggregate of US$ 0.7 million on the basis of
competition amongst licensed/qualified (for rural surveying) national surveying firms in
the private sector.



- 59 -                               Annex 6
5.     Consulting Services and Training (US$0.6 million). Consulting services would be required
under the project's Institution and Capacity Building Component, assisting NAGCC with the
implementation of all project components. US$1.6 million will be provided through a Swedish grant.
Another US$150,000 is provided for other consultancy support. See Annex 2 for a description of
consulting services required. Consultants will be recruited on the basis of the Consultants Guidelines
using Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) among short-listed firms. The Bank's standard
consulting contracts will be used. For fellowships/study programs abroad (US$45 1,000), institutions
and individuals will be selected based on quality and qualifications respectively. Implementation
training required for NAGCC and other stakeholders involved in implementing the project will be
procured from individuals or firms with expertise in the respective technical field. Terms of
Reference for the respective training activities would be submitted to the Bank for prior approval. If
financing from bilateral or other sources is available for any or all of the above services, the IDA
credit will be reduced correspondingly. However, the Bank will satisfy itself that the procedures to be
used for the recruitment of such consultants are efficient and economic, that the consultants selected
have the necessary qualifications and that the services to be contracted are of satisfactory quality and
will be carried out in accordance with the agreed project implementation schedule.
6.     Project Implementation Office (US$2.0 million). About 50% of the incremental costs for fees
to local consultants hired for the Project Implementation Office (PIO) of NAGCC will be financed by
the credit. The individuals will be selected according to paragraph 5.2 of the Bank's Consultants
Guidelines.



Moldova First Cadastre Project - Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Thresholds
Element              ICB                   NCB                   IS                    NS                    Consultancies         Other methods
1. Procurement       Above $300,000        Technical Services:   Goods: Up to          Goods: Below          Quality-based or      Small Works: Below
method thresholds                          Up to $300,000 per    $300,000 per contract,  $50,000 per contract,   Quality- and Cost-  $50,000 per contract,
contract, up to       up to aggregate      up to aggregate       Based Selection        up to aggregate
aggregate amount of    amount of $2.0      amount of $1.2        (QCBS).                amount of $400,000
$700,000              million.             million. Technical    Quality-based
Services: Up to      selection for study
$50,000 per contract    programs abroad up to
up to an aggreate of    aggregate amount of
$750,000             $451,000.
2. Prior Review      All civil works, goods, and technical services contracts valued at more than US$200,000, all contracts for goods and technical services awarded through
ICB, and the first contract for IS, NS, and NCB procurements, would be subject to prior IDA review. All individual consultant contracts >$50,000, and
contracts with consulting firms >$I 00,000. These limits would result in prior review of about 62 percent of total Bank-financed procurement.
3. Ex-post Review:   Selective post review (about 25%) of awarded contracts below the threshold levels will be carried out during supervision missions.
C)
4. The Project Implementation Of fice (PIO) in NAGCC has been developing its procurem ent capacity under a PPF of US$700,000 and a PHRD grant of US$68 1,500.
5. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Note  6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by
status:                                                                     negotiations?
Country Procurement Strategy Note prepared in 1997.                         Yes             No      X
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
7. Estimated date of Project  8. Estimated date of publication   9. Indicate if contracts are  10. Domestic Preference for  11. Domestic Preference for
Launch Workshop               of General Procurement Notice    subject to mandatory SPN in  Goods                         Work, if applicable
Development Business
November, 1997                February, 1997                 Yes    X         No            Yes    X        No             Yes             No       X
12. Retroactive financing                                                   13. Advanced Procurement
Yes             No       X       Explain:                                   Yes              No      X        Explain:
14. Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
The Project Implementation Office (PIO) in NAGCC will be undertaking all procurement, and will maintain an adequate monitoring system.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing                                                                     >
15. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project PreparationTeam:                                                                                       z
Mr. Narayanaswami Viswanathan                                                                Consultant, International Development and Finance Incorporated      m
16. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:                                                                                        X
Project Officer will support PIO/NAGCC, as required.



Preliminary Procurement Plan (Works): Moldova First Cadastre Project*
1                    2                3                 4             5                               6. Estimated schedule
Description             Type            No. of           Estimated      Procure-    Prequalifications    Document   Invitation   Contract    Contact
slices/items/      cost ($ 000     ment                          preparation    to bid     signing    completion
subpackages        thousands)     method
WORKS CONTRACTS                   CW             up to 20           400,000         NS              NA              1/98         11/98      111/98       IV/98
Office Rehabilitation                                                                                               1/99         11/99      111/99       IV/99
TOTAL             400,000
* Excluding taxes and duties.
z
z
m
X
CD



Procurement Plan (Goods): Moldova First Cadastre Project*
________________________________   2  3              4              5                                   6. Estimated   schedule
Description             Type.         No. of          Estimated       Procure-      Prequalifications   Document    Invitation    Contract       Contract
slices/items/     cost ($ 000      ment                            preparation      to bid      signing    completion
subpackages       thousands)      method
MAPPING / SURVEYING               Goods            2               1,450          ICB               NA              111/98         IV/98        1/99         11/99
EQUIPMENT                                                                                                            11/99         111/99       11/00        Tl1/00
COMPUTER SYSTEMS-                 Goods            2               1,227          ICB               NA               11/98         111/98       IV/98        IV/99
Urban Cadastral Services                                                                                             11/94         111/99      IV/99          1/00
COMPUTER SYSTEMS-                 Goods            2               592             is               NA               1/99           1/99        11/99        111/99
Rural Cadastral Services                                                                                             1/00           1/00        11/00        111/00
OFFICE SUPPLIES-                  Goods         up to 30           1,003          NS                NA               11/98         11/98        11/98        111/98
Registration Materials                                                                                              1/99           1/99         1/99         11/99
111/99        111/99       111/99       IV/99
1/00          1/00         1/00         11100
111/00        111/00       111/00       IV/00                a)
1/01          1/01         1/01         11/01
111/01        111/01       111/01       IV/01
OFFICE EQUIPMENT-                 Goods            3                171            is               NA               11/98         11/98        111/98       IV/98
Fax Machines and                                                                                                     1/99           1/99        1/99         11/99
Photocopiers                                                                                                        111/99         111/99       IV/99        IV/99
OFFICE EQUIPMENT-                 Goods            3                69            NS                NA               11/98         111/98       1/99         11/99
Furniture And Fixtures                                                                                               1/99           1/99        1/99         11/99
________________                                                          111/99        111/99       IV/99         IV/99
VEHICLES                          Goods            3                388            IS               NA               111/98        IV/98        1/99          11/99
1/99          1/99        11/99         11/99
1/00          1/00        11/00         11/00
TRAINING EQUIPMENT for   Goods                     4                523            IS               NA               11/98         11/98       IV/98         IV/98
Project Implementation and                                                                                          111/98         111/98      IV/98         IV/99                >
Institution /Capacity Building                                                                                      IV/98          IV/98        1/00          1/00                z
11/00         11/00        11/00        111/00               m
___________________   __TOTAL        5,423                                                                                                          0)
* Excluding taxes and duties.



Procurement Plan (Technical Service Contracts): Moldova First Cadastre Project*
1                   2                3                  4            5                               6. Estimated schedule
Description            Typel/           No. of           Estimated    Procure-    Prequalifications    Document   Invitation   Contract    Contract
slices/items/     cost ($ 000     ment                          preparation    to bid     signing    completion
subpackages        thousands)    method
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY               Tech.              2                300           IS             NA              11/98        11/98      1/99         11/99
CONTRACTS                        Serv.                                                                            11/99        11/99      111/00      IV/0(
MAPPING/SURVEYING                Tech.            5-15               127          NS              NA              11/98       111/98      IV/98        1/99
CONTRACTS (Urban)                Serv.
I                100         NCB              NA              1/99         1/99       11/99       IV/99
MAPPING/SURVEYING                Tech.              4               4,000         ICB             NA              11/98        11/98      111/98       11/99
CONTRACTS (Urban)                Serv.                                                                           IV/98         1/99       111/99       11/00
TVV/99       I/00       1II/00      11/01
IV/00        1/01       III/01       11/02
MAPPING/SURVEYING                Tech.            15-40              576          NS              NA              1/98         1/8.       11/98       111/98
CONTRACTS (Rural)                Serv.
Up to 5             600         NCB              NA             IV/98         1/99       11/99       IV/99
IV/99        1/00       11/00       IVOO
IV/00        1/01       11/01       IV/0 I
TOTAL              5,703
* Excluding taxes and duties.
1/ Using Small Works documents.
Procurement Plan (Consultancies): Moldova First Cadastre Project*
_____ _____2                         3             4           5                              6. Estimated Schedule
Description               Type       No of slices/   Estimated    Procur- | Start    Finish     Year      Year       Year       Year      Year
items/        Cost        ment                           1         2          3          4         5
subpackages     ($000)      method
thousands
PROJECT                             CF***            1            150      Quality-  3/98      12         xxxxx    xxxxx      xxxxx       xxxxx     xxxxx
IMPLEMENTATION                                                             based or
SUPPORT                                                                     QCBS
Cl***                                                                                                         z~~~~~~~*
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _   _ ___      __                  _   _    I__     _     I_  _             ._              _              _ _  _ _                                    z               
STUDY PROGRAMS ABROAD               CI***           NA           451       Quality-  3/98      12         xxxxx    xxxxx      xxxxx      xxxxx      xxxxx                m
|  based                                                      _________  ____|___
TOTAL                                                 601_ ._ _  601                                                  0.)
* Excluding taxes and duties.                                          *** CF = Consulting Firm
** Quality- and Cost-Based Selection                                       Cl = Consulting Individual



Procurement Plan (Miscellaneous): Moldova First Cadastre Project*
.                   2                3                  4            5                               6. Estimated schedule
Description             Type            No. of           Estimated    Procure-    Prequalifications    Document   Invitation   Contract    Contact
slices/items/     cost ($ 000     ment                          preparation    to bid     signing    completion
subpackages        thousands)    method
INCREMENTAL MAPPING              Incre-            NA                850          NA              NA              NA           NA         NA           NA
COSTS (new maps for urban       mental
and rural)                       costs
DATA VERIFICATION AND            Incre-            NA               2,000         NA              NA              NA           NA          NA          NA
CONVERSION                      mental
(Title Development Costs for     costs
both urban and rural)
INCREMENTAL PIO COSTS    Incre-                    NA               2,000         NA              NA              NA           NA          NA          NA                Cv
(fees to contracted consultants  mental
for the PIO; audit costs)        costs
IMPLEMENTATION                   Incre-            NA                290          NA
TRAINING COSTS                  mental
costs
REFUND TO PPF                                      NA               1,700          NA             NA              NA           NA          NA          NA
TOTAL                  =                   .             6,840                                           _
* Excluding taxes and duties.
EXCLUDING INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS WITH 100% FINANCING FROM GOVERNMENT COUNTERPART FUNDS ($900,000).
** On the basis of work contracts between NAGCC and INGEOCAD, approved by the Bank.
* ** On the basis of work contracts between NAGCC and Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCOs), approved by the Bank.
z
z
C)



- 65 -                               Annex 7
7. ESTIMAI'ED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Estimated Schedule of Credit Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank
Fiscal       Semester      Disbursement      Cumulative    Cumulation as
Year         Ending        in Semester       Amount        % of Total Credit
1999         12/31/98        1.5              1.5                  1
06/30/99        1. 1             2.6                16
2000         12/31/99        1.9               4.5                28
06/30/00        1.9              6.4                40
2001         12/31/00        1.3               7.7                48
06/30/01        1.12             8.9                56
2002         12/31/01        1.5              10.4                65
06/30/02        1.4              11.8               74
2003         12/31/02        2.0              13.8                87
06/30/03        2.1              15.9               100



- 66 -                                  Annex 8
8.  CALCULATIONS FOR PROJECT COST RECOVERY
1.  Under the proposed project, the Government of Moldova (GOM), donors and the IDA credit
would provide a total of about US$24.6 million to finance the establishment of a national cadastre.
Government counterpart funds would amount to US$3.96 million, disbursed over five years with the
higher shares to be allocated during the initial years of project implementation.
Table I: Project Cost and Government Contribution (in million US$)
(in million US$)  year I    year 2    year 3    year 4  year5    Total
1. Mapping Program
Government                               0.009     0.049    0.075     0.152     0.156      0.44
IDA                                      1.990     0.270    0.490     0.490     0.364      3.60
Donors                                   2.800     0.000    0.000     0.000     0.000      2.80
Total                                    4.799     0.319    0.565     0.642     0.520      6.85
11. Urban Cadastral Services Program
Government                               0.099    0.176     0.260     0.433     0.455      1.42
IDA                                      1.779     1.420    1.199     1.388     1.398      7.20
Donors                                   0.000    0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000      0.00
Total                                    1.898     1.596    1.459     1.821     1.853      8.63
111. Rural Cadastral Services Program
Government                               0.022    0.052     0.188     0.313     0.364      0.94
IDA                                      0.170    0.290     0.770     0.990     0.580      2.80
Donors                                   0.000    0.000     0.000     0.000     0.000      0.00
Total                                    0.192     0.342    0.958     1.303     0.944      3.74
IV. Institution and Capacity Building
Government                               0.175    0.174     0.159     0.256     0.397      1.16
IDA                                      0.750    0.530     0.500     0.260     0.260      2.30
Donors                                   0.558    0.583     0.355     0.343     0.065      1.90
Total                                    1.483     1.287    1.014     0.859     0.722      5.37
Total Project Cost
Government                              0.305     0.451     0.682     1.154     1.372     3.96
IDA                                     4.709     2.510     2.959     3.128    2.602      15.90
Donors                                  3.358     0.583     0.355     0.343    0.065      4.70
Totals                                   8.373    3.544     3.996     4.625     4.039     24.58
2.  Proforma projections of the expected cost and revenues that may be generated through project
implementation are provided below. Assumptions used for the projections are also discussed in
Chapter V (Economic Evaluation). The projections indicate that the project, over a 35 year horizon,
generates enough income to cover its cost. During this period, the cost incurred to the Government
through its counterpart contribution during project implementation, and through servicing the IDA
credit over the full 35 year period, including a 10 year grace period, amount to US$22.35 million,
most of it incurred during the beginning of the 35 year period (see Table 3 below). Depriciation cost



- 67 -                                Annex 8
are assumed to occur in particular during project implementation; for the years 6-35 of the cost
recovery period, depreciation cost on only 40% of all investments are assumed as only 40% of
instruments and equipment will be needed in order to continue cadastral activities based on the system
set up initially.
3.  Incomes generated through the project depend on the number and type of properties that are
registered.
Table 2: Projected number of properties registered during project implementation
Years      total    rural   intra-    total  single family  appartments  enterprises other building
villan    urban   homes                              uses/owners
1        10,577    5,000    1,352    4,225      1,148        2,756         230          92
2        61,479   15,000   11,268   35,211      9,568       22,964       1,914          765
3       108,085   30,000   18,930   59,155     16,075       38,579       3,215        1,286
4       163,535   65,000   23,887   74,648     20,285       48,683       4,057        1,623
5       186,324   85,000   24,563   76,761     20,859       50,061       4,172        1,669
Total     530,000  200,000   80,000  250,000      67,935      163,043      13,587       5,435
4.  Incomes generated are assumed to emerge later during the 35 year period, after the project is
completed and when real estate markets and commercial banks start using the information available to
them. Incomes are assumed to be generated by: (a) fees for the registration of property transfers,
mortgages, or other transactions, the volume and the level of which are assumed to be flat but vary by
usage; (b) fees for the provision of cadastral information; and (c) royalties from the sales of maps.
The total income from these activities is expected to amount to US$40.19 in 1997 dollars, most of it
generated towards the end of the projected period.



- 68 -                                                                                                    ANNEX8
TABLE 3: Cost of Fin..Cing thi Projost tnd In-ooms Gono-tsod by tIh Pmorjrt
Tot.l      FY I       F2           Y FY2  SY 3 Y4        FY 5         Y6         Y7         YS         Y9        YIO        YlI       Y12        Y13        Y14
Crmdit: USSS5.9 Mi., fSo 35 Iears, 50 ya  ofoso                                 15.90
ooo,rnilmono6ros foe25%)                                                        0.05        0.02       0.01       0.01          0.00
oicr_ Pos_(0O75/% o-pfinipolososs di.g)                                         0.04        0.06      0.0        0.10          0.12      0.12       0.12       0.12       0.12       0.12      0.11       0.11       0.10       0.10
-Artrzaooo p0000M0                                                                 0          0           0          0            0          0          0          0         0          0       0.64       0.64       0.04       0.64
-     tlasi-e -rionkion                                                            a          o           0          0            0          0          0          0          0         0        0.64       1.27      1.91       2.54
Totlfl.t..rna -t                                                    18S39       (.07        0.00       0.09       0.11          0.12      0.12       0.12       0.12       0.12       0.12      0.75       0.75       0.74       0.74
Glo-r-rorrt oootrlhol-rn (ae coat shret)                             3.96       0.30        0.45       0.67       1.16         153.
fmm0=                     =     7 77MMtr0  i ' o                     22.35       0.37       0.53        0.76       1.27          1.50      0.12       0.12       0112       0.12      0.12       0.75       0.75       0.74       0.74
IToitl tocoroos
from-  0for rroootio                                                35.99       0.22        0.35       0.49       0.65          0.25      0.60       0.05       0.86       0.00       0.90       0.92      0.94       0.95       097
If-mfoofooo,o.rmioodioo-ot-oo                                        3.69       022         0.36       0.55       046           0.06      0.6        0.90       0.91       0.93       5.00       5.02       500       5.06       1.00
fros. e f- rrra- otio-.iofo-otn, =drms                              40.19       0.23        0.37       0.52       0.69          0.07      0.66       0.9t       0.92       0.94       1.01       1.03       1.05      1.07       1.0
IORB (Co-t ttsdf.g dop-oolstioo)                   HRR n /%
RR: .oy oitrlhoo= ioomfrsmco                        21.00                      -0.15       -0.18      -0.27      -0.62         -0.6S      0.40       0.73       0.75       0.76       0.78      0.17       0.19       0.21       0.24
IRR olo owiinforortof=ro moooi                      24.66                      -0.J5       -0.17      -0.26      -0.09         -0.64     O03        0.78       0.79       005S       0.80      027        0.30       0532       0.35
[RR: -low1ithm  p mler i=ome                        25.78                      -0.14       .0.16      .0.25      -0.58         -0.63      0.54       0.79       0.81       0.82       0.89      0.28       0.31       0.33       0.36
Aoomed Dprsiti.o Coos (US rillim)ow0l                               21.61          0         0.6       0.67       0.76          0.76       0.75      0.76       0.75       0.76       0.75       0.76      0.75       0.76       0.75
D     iproitoo Coor lki.g ot. 0000 -o1y 40  of rofp rt               8.64       0.00        0,24       0.27       0.30          0.30      0.30       0.30       0.30       0.30      0930       0.30       0.30       0530 n     (.30
o45uipment .1rt yoor 5 (06d4d for krping r-oord. gomg)
ORCo.080os15)t0.drpa0oro0800ehtO5)0005m-t-t foryostY   1-.0 tmdon 40%.f.11 I-t-ttoot fo-y-sr 6-35)
5M:ooly  ithtr-raoti-ofooisoo-                      436                         0.I5       -OA2       .054       -0.92         -0.99       0.50      0.42       0.45       0.46       OA8       0.14       .0.11     -.()9      .0.06
5006 ol ith if-ssonfer ioro                          795                        .0.15      .041        0.52      -0.89         -0,94      0.23       0.47       0.49       0.51       0.58      -0.03      0.00       0.02       .(35
10 ol it o     p soslo  s -orr                      83.52                       .0.14      .0.40      -0.51      O5.8         -0.93      0.24       0.40                  0.52       0.59      0.02       0.01       0.03      05.16
f , t i ;                                    .,_                Totals       FYI         FY2        FY3        FY4         FY5          Y6         Y7         YS         Y9        Y10        YIl        Y12       Y13        Y14
ITotlo
Inor-s only fIm    md'.Itro-sstt 6m                                35.99       0.22        0.35       0.49       0.65          0.81      0.60       0.85       0.86       0.88       0.90      0.92       0.94       0.95       0.97
3-o-m  hlar froto l -folmrtlon fort                                 39.69       0.22        0.36       0.51       0.60          0.86      0.65       0.90       0.91       0.93       1.00       5.02       1.04      1.06       1.0s
Ioo... olso foot rasraE.Is oo-lOtis                                 40119       0.23        0.37       0.52       0.69          0.87      0.66       0.91       0.92       0.94       5.05       1.03       1.05      1.07       1.10
Fs for-tafatooios(r t.of io.r.asrs 2%p..)                           35.99       0.22       0135        0149       1165         0181        0.60      1.05       1186       1.88       0190       1.92      1194       0.95       a)97
oppoarmnota: for Snooo-  US t75 mrllton                             20.58       0.12        0.25       0.30       0.51          0.65       0.43      0.68       0.69       0.70       0.72      0.73       0.75       0.76       0.7S
*-osobor                                                                     50,061    100,122    150,1S4    200,245       250,306    163,043    250306    250306    250300    250306    250300    250300    250306    25(1306
0%th.tis bormso1 tf-d                                                            8%          8           %          8% 8%        9%         096       8%         S%         S%         8%        8%         8%         8%         8%
fo (US$)                                                                       30.0        30.60      31.21      31.04         32.47      33.12     33.78      34.46      35.15      35.85     36.57      37.30      38.05      38.tS
proprotirwa t1th  - -oorro bildbIgs: forirom-                        0.68       0.05        0.05       0.01       0.0           0.05       0.02      00         02         02        0.02       0.02       0.02       0.02       OssZ
nbr                                                                          13,58s  133 37 13,587  53,007     55,07        13.587     153,587    53,007       ,587     13,587    13,587     13,587     13,587     13,587     13,507
% th3itbbi.g tor-f-d                                                            2%         2%         2%         2%            2%         2%         2%        2%         20         2%         2%         2%        2%         2-%
fo(USs)                                                                       50.00      51.00      52.02       53.06        54.12      55.20      56.31     57.43      50.50      59.75      60.95      62.17     63.4       64.6S
pr.perrirt witb soglr fotIly ho.sts: frm J.-.tl oU0 oillior          4.08       0.09        0.0       0.0        0.09          0.09       0.09      0.09       0.09       0.10       0.10       0.10     (5.10       0.10       t.II
o-sbor                                                                        67,935     67,935      67.935     67,935        67,935    67.935     67,935     67,935    67,935      67,933    67.935     67,935     67,935     67,935
* %t ts ir beig -rorf-rrd                                                        4%         4%          4%         4%            4%        4%         4%         4%         4%        4%         4%         4%         4%         4%
0fo (USS)                                                                      355t        30.60      35.21      31.84         32.47     33.12      35.78      34.46      35.15      35.85     36.57      37.30      38.05      38.81
-      - r -tO S rothobot- bolldlga: frreoomlt380tI1lon             0.03       0.00        0.00       5550       0.00             0.000                        0.00       05o0       0.00      o.50       0.00       0.00       0065
_ mrho                                                                         5.435      5,435      5,435      5,435         5,435      5,433     5,435      5.435      5,435      5.435      5,435     5,435      5,4350     5,435
o%Ohatitboiogoo,oforl                                                            1% 1%                   % M        %            1%        I%         I%         I%         I%         I          I%        I%         I%         1%
*fo(650)                                                                        0008       10.20      10.40      10.61         50.82     55.04      51.26      51409     51.72        5.095     12.19     12.43      12.68      52.94
Sotoassslan prryrrtesr                                               0.76      0.000      0.003       0.007      0.012        0.017       .058      O.IS       .010      0.019     0.019      0.020      0.025)     0.021      0.(021
- nmmbor                                                                       1,352      12,620     31,549     55,437        00,0550    00.00 SO.O0O         80,000     80O,OO    S0,0009    00.00      80,000     5)0,K      8((5).000
0%O stOiontg M,fMrd                                                               1%         I%         1%         1%            1% 5%                5%         I%         1%         5%         5%        5%         I%         1%
*f=(USS) 520.50                                                                            20A.0      206.       212.2         21.65     22.00      22.52      22.97      23A3       23.90     24.53      24.07      25.36      25.07
-orol l.d plota ft Jntom   1.50 U itio.                              1.87      0.00        0.064      5G.0I0     0.024         0.043     0.044      0.045      0.046      0.047     0.04S      0.049      0.050      0.055      55(552
*srr_bor                                                                      5,000     20,000     50,000    15.C000       200,000   200,000    200,000   200,900    200,000   20.OO   2500,000   200,(0YK       2055,067    205),5050
%rl rioh. ormgtrmbfrd                                                           1%         1%         1%          1%           1%         I%         I%         1%       I5%         1%         I%         1%         I%         1%
fo (US5)                                                                       200Q        20.40      20.81      25.22         21.65     22.00      22.52      22.97      23A3      23090      24.35      240S7      25.36      25.87
oes for p-ooiola  of IWfo-aotioo, totml (8SS rilIoo)
3.70      O.0ol      0.006      0.015      0.029         0.046      0.047      0.A8      0.049      0.050      0.505      0.103      0.5(O5     5.5550     5. I I
o naosborio%ofpospooior                                                          4%         4%          4%         4%           4%         4%         4%         4%         4%        S%         8%         0%         0%         8%
o esfosbr irfooo0iso (OSOt)                                                        2       2.0A        2.0        2.12          2.16      2.21       2.25       2.30       2.34      2.39       2.44       2.49       2.54       259
F- f      -roto co-roigbt onnap (USS  llo                            1.50      9.050        9.01       0.05       0.05          065       0.05       O.DI       0015       0.05       6.00      0.05       9.05       0.05       0.01



-69-                                                                                               ANNEX 8
'01       Y16        Y]7        Y18       Y'9        Y20        Y21        Y22        Y23        Y24        ' Y25     Y26        Y27        Y20        Y29       '30        '38        Y32        Y33        '34       '33
0.10      0.09       0.09       0.0       0.0       0.07      0.07       O.         0.06       0.00       0.05      0.04       009        0.03       0.03      002        002        0.01       001        0.00       1.00
0.64      0.04       0.64       0.64       0.64       0.64      0 64       0.61       0.64       0 64       0.64      0.64       0.64       0.64       0.64      0.64       0.64       0.64       0.64       0.64      0.64
3.18      3.02       4.4        0.09       5 72      6.36       7.00       7.61       8.27       8.90       9.54     10.18      1081       11A5      12.08      1272       1336       13.99      14.63     15.26      1590
073       0.73       072        0.72       071        0.71      0.70       0.71)      0.69       0.69       0.68      0.68       0.67       0.67       066       0.66       0.66       (.65       1)65      064        0.64
0.73      0.73       0.72       0.72       8.71       0.71       0.70      0.70       0.69       0.69       0.60      0.68       0.67       0.67       0.66      0.66       066        0.60       0.65      9.64       0.64
0.99       1.0l      1.03       I 05       1.07       .10        1.12       1.10      1.16       1.19       1.21       1.23      126        1.28       1.31       1.34      1.36       1.39       142        1.43      1 46
1.10       1.13      1.15       1.17       1.20       .22       1.24        1.27      5.23       1.32       I 33      1.37       IA        1.43       1.46      l.40       1.52       1.35       15        1.61       I 64
1.12      1.54       1.16       1.19       1.21       1.23      5.26       1 26       1.31       134        5.36      1.33       1A2        1.45       1 47      1.50       1.53       1 57       1.00       I 63      5.6
0.26      0.29       0.31       0.34       0.36       0.39       042       OA4        0.47       0.50       0.57       056       058        0.61       065        9.60      0.71       0.74       0.77       0.81       0.04
0.37      OAo        0.43       OA6        0.49       0.51      054        0.57       0.60       0.63       0.66      0.69       0.73       0.76       0.79       0.83      0.86       0.90       093        0197       5.5l
0.39      OAI        0.44       OA7        0.50       0.53      0.56       0.59       062        0.65       0.66       071       0.74       0.78       0.01       064       0.09       091        0.95       1099       10.53
0.76      0.75       0.76       0.75       0.76       0.75       0.75      0.h7       0.75       0.75       0.73       0.73      0.75       0.75       075        075       075        0.75       1.73       1175       0.75
0.30      0 30       0.30       0 30       030        0.30      0.30       0.30       0.30       0.30       0.30      0 30       0.30       0.30       0 30      D 30       0.30       0.30       0.30      11311      0.30
.0.04     .0.01       0.01       0.64      0.06       0.09       0 12       0.14       0 17      0.20       023        0 26       0.20       0.31      0.33       0.3a       0.41       0 44       0.47                 05.51  11.34
0.07      0.50       0.12       0.16       0 Is       0.21      024        0.7        0.30       0.33       0.36      0.39       0.43       OA6        049       0.53       056        060        0.63       1)67      0.71
0.08      0.1l       0.14       0.17       055       0.23       026        0.29       032        0.35       0.38      0.41       0.44       0.46       035       0.54       0.58       0.61       065        05.69     0.73
Y15       Y16        Y17       Y'8         Y19        Y20    Y21        Y22        Y23       Y24        Y25        Y26        Y27        Y28       Y29        Y30        Y31        Y32        Y33       Y34        Y35
0.99       1 ol      1.03       5.05       5.07       5.50       1.12      1-14       1.,6       5.59       I 21      1.23       1.26       120        1.31       1 34       I 36      1 39       1.42       1.45       1.48
5.10       1.13      1.15       1.57       1 20      1.22       1 24       I :17      5.29       1 32      1.35       1 37       I 40       1A3        1.46      149        I 32       1.55       1.58       5.61      I 66
1.12      5.54       9.56       1.13       1.21      5.23       8.26      1528        5.31       I 34      1.30        I 33      1.42       1.45       1 47       1.50      5.53       1.57       1 60       1 63       .66
0.99       1.01      1.03       1.05       1.07       1.10       1.12      1.14       1.16       1.l9       1.21       1.23      1.26       1.20       1.38       8.34       1.        139        1.42       1.45      1.40
079        .S1       0.02       0.84       00 6       0a.5      0.ss       0.91       093       11.05       0.97      0.99       I 0I       I0 3       1.05       1.07       I 09      5.15 I      .13 I  I   I         5.18
250306    250306    250306    250306    250306    250306    250306    250306    250306    250306    250306    2510306    250306    250306    250306    25D306    2501306    2501306    2503116    2511306    250l3106
8%        8%         8%         Sx         0%         0%        0%         6%         5%         8%         8%        8%         8%         8%         0%/.      8%         8%         0%         8%         8%        8%
39.58     40.30      41.18      4201       42.03     43.70      44.58      45.47      4638       4731      48.25      4322       5020       51.21      5223      53.29      5434       554A3       6.54      57.67     56.82
0.02      0.0        002    0      2         0.2      0.02         2       0.05202               0.0        2 02      0          0           .2         .                   0 12       003        003        1)113    01513
13,587      .3       13,57      8307        3,87      13.597     13,587    13.587     53,567     535507     53.507 53,507 135357            13.587 13.597        13,567183,307 13.587  13,587     13.507     13,367    13.307
2%        2%         2%         2%         2%         2%        2%         :1%        2%         2%         2%        2%         2%         2%         2%         2%        2%         2%         2%         2%        2%
65.97      67.29     68.64      7eol0      7141       72.64     74.30      73.70      77.30      7064      00.42      02.03      0367       0534       87.05      SS79       90.57     9230       9423      93.1)      98.113
0.51       0.ll      0.11       3.11       0.12       0.12      0.12       0 12       0.13       0 13       0.13      013        0 14       O.14       0.14      0 14       015        0.15       0.15       1,16      O116
67,935    67.935     67,935     67,935    67.935      67,935    67,935     67.935     67,935     67,935     67,935    67,935     67,935     67,935     67,935     67,935    67,933     67.935     67,935     67.935    67.935
4%        4%         4%         4%         4%        4%         4%         t%         4%         4%        4%         4%         4%         4%         4%        4%         4%         4%         4%         4%        4%
39.5S     40.38      41.16      42.01      42.05     43.70      44.58      43A7       4630       47.31     4625       4922       50.20      51.21      52.23      5328      54.34      55.43      5654       5767      5802
0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       000        000       0.0    0    00        0.0       006        0.00      0.00       0.06      (1O         0.01       O (1O    .00   O.13             011 1X     1 OIx)    0.16
5,435     53435      5,435      5.435      5,435      5.435     3435       5,135      5,435      5.435      5.435     5,435      5435       5.435      5,435     5.435      5.435      5.435      5.435      5.435     5.435
1%        5%         5%         1%         1%         1%        536        1%         I%         1%         5%        1%         1%      ,  5%         1%        1%         1I%        1%         I%         I%        I %
13.19     13.46      13.73      14.00      1428       14.57     14.86      15.16      15.46      1577      16.08      16.41      16.73      17.07      1741       1776      18.11      18.48      18.85      1922      1961
0.021     0.022      0.022      0022       0.023      0.023     0.024      0.124      0025       0025       0026      9026       0.027      0027       0020       0.028     0 029      0.0        0031,      0) 131    i03l
00,060    S0.o00     00,000     60,o6o     00,006     8O,O60    80,000     80,060     80.0OO    S0,O0       80,106     60,006    80,006     80.000    50.1)0     0     80.00 00.       80,006    80.WOW      9.0o0     91 10,01
15   %         1%   1%          %         1%         5%/        1%5   %         1%   1%   1%   1%   -%    1%                               1%         1%         l%        5%/        1%         1%         8% o
26.39     26.92      27.46      28.06      2056       29 14     29.72      30.31      30.92      31.54      32 17    35.05       33.47      34 14      3402       3552      36.23      3695       3769       38.44      3921
0.053     0.054      0.055      0.056      0.057      0.058     0.059      0.061      0.062      0063       0.064     0066       0.067      0.068      0070      0071       0.072      0074       0l.1175    0.077     0078
200 00         0000    20020   200.0O0        206,006   200,000    2060,06  206.0     200,060    206.000    2o0.006    206.060    200,066    0.0          000 20D 00.006    20000      206,006    206.006      .0X)    218O.1)OO
1%        1%         1%         1%         1%         1%         1%        1%         1%         1%         1%         1%        1%         1%         1%         l%        1%        I5%         1%        I1%         I%
26.39     2692       27.46      2300       28.36      29.54     29.72      3f)JI      30.92      3).54      32.17      32.01     33.47      3414       34.32      3552      36.23      36.95      3769       3944      3921
0.112     0.114      0.116      0.519      0121       0.124      0.126     0 129      0.131      0 134      0.136      0.139     0.142      0.145      0.148      0.15I     1154       (1.157     1.160      0.163     11.166
S%        0%         8%         0%         9%         0%         8% 8%                8%         8%         8%        0% %% 8%   8%                              0%         8%         0%         80%        8%        8%
2.64      2.69       2.75       2.80       206        2.91       297      -.03        3.09       3.815      3.22       3.29      3.35       3.4)       340        3.55       362       3.70       3.77       384        391
0.01      001        O.01       0.01       0.05       0.01       0.05      002        0.02       0.02       0.02      0.02       0.02       1)02       0.02       0.02      002        0.02       1102      11(12       002






IBRD 24285R3
287                                         
v;\ \ 9_/~~~t9\< >\   gJ ~To Nemko<z                                                  M  OL D OVA
odooil!sk~~ild.                U K R A I N E
fBriceni        2    /   \$~~~~~~~~~l'ki   To Vinnitsa                                       SELECTED CITIES
\   ~~~~~~9   J e          +                                               t) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL CAPITAL
X   <  t  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                          RIVERS
-480 '                                                                 <              480           ,  l|RAILROADS
)?t S-) it~~~~~~~~F                                                              ROADS
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b itm                                            - INTERNATIONAL
X           <falesti1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                         Rezin                                BONARE
2 \ < _ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This a .                                            -rdue
0   x/Jy         Xlarusi              /          XDubaseri      i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. The Word Bankrr
X X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rei                                                         Th.J bound aries ,.nr
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i d_,                                                 -1 HIIAU s
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alarancsti                                                                                  f 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T Ky8 h  PK Cmrt 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~net                                enonst  er% 
61.~                                                                                                   T._  O eSEA
KILOMETERSI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 42buneXi~ /..-:
 MILES I , alid Constenta _5C t ;
/21bD          ~        ~         \5t                1-        3 
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 1 M997I 



