Report No. PIC2443
Project Name                   Moldova-First Cadastre Project (@)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Privatization
Project ID                     MDPA35771
Borrower                       Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agency            National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography
and Cadastre
Mr. Ion Stratulat
Director
Tel: (370-2) 21.22.44
Fax: (370-2) 22.63.73
Date This PID Prepared         November 27, 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared      July 6, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       January 1997
Projected Board Date           July 1997
Country and Sector Background
Although Moldova initiated a reform program aimed at creating a market
economy as early as 1990, serious terms of trade shocks, ethnic conflict
and a series of natural calamities caused a precipitous decline in
national production and living standards during the first half of the
1990s. Between 1991 and 1994 output and real wages fell by 60 percent,
while employment decreased from over 2 million people in 1991 to around
1.3 million in 1994. However, tight fiscal and monetary policy brought
inflation down, from 116% in 1994 to 24% in 1995, and 15.1% during 1996.
Negative growth slowed down in 1996, with GDP declining by approximately
8%.  Monthly wages in Moldova currently average about 184 lei (US$40),
varying between 94 lei (US$20) in agriculture and 620 lei (US$135) in
banking/insurance (see 1/). Real wages increased by aost 7% in the
first half of 1996 compared to a year earlier. Officially recorded
unemployment remains low at less than 2%, though this excludes around
10-12% of the labor force on unpaid or on partially paid leave.    To
support and strengthen recent positive economic trends, significant
further structural reforms are needed in the years to come.
The Moldovan Government has shown a strong commitment to integrating
land reform into its privatization scheme. Privatization has so far
been most successful in urban areas, with an initial focus on buildings
and apartments, resulting in more than 85% of the housing stock being
owned by private individuals in mid 1996. Privatization of urban land
is to follow the ownership patterns established through the
privatization of buildings. Private ownership of land or buildings is
in principle not in question, however, economic development is seriously
impeded by insecurity about property rights and related institutional
arrangements. Order and stability that are needed for the multiplicity
of actual and potential uses of land to emerge can be provided by a land



administration system that would create security not only for landowners
and their partners, but also for national and international investors
and banks, for traders and dealers, and for Governments. Currently,
such security is lacking in Moldova, resulting in a lack of
collateralized credit and problematic real estate transactions (trading,
inheritance).
Moldova inherited a set of institutional obstacles to effective land
administration, in the form of an unclear division of responsibilities
between different agencies such as the Ministry of Privatization and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and differing standards in surveying,
registration and titling. Since 1992, the Land Arrangement Service
(LAS), under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and the Bureau of
Technical Inventory (BTI), under the Ministry of Privatization, have
played the lead roles in handling cadastral requirements of the
agriculture and urban sectors, respectively. However, with unclear and
differing objectives, neither institution has been able to effectively
establish a national multi-purpose cadastre. The existing and often
contradictory legal, regulatory, and institutional frameworks further
complicate matters. Registration procedures are cumbersome and costly,
in particular with respect to land, resulting in less than 10,000 of
land titles issued to date.
Recognizing the importance of an effective land management system for
the country's economic development, the Moldovan Government has taken
first steps towards the creation of a national cadastre, initially
focusing on urban land. In 1994, a National Agency for Geodesy,
Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC) was established by Presidential Decree,
with a mandate to develop a coordinated approach to the creation and
management of a national and unified cadastre.
Project Objectives
The long-term objective of the First Cadastre Project is to promote the
privatization of land and the development of real estate markets in
Moldova. The project will be the beginning of a wider effort to assist
the Government of Moldova in reaching this objective. The project will
establish a national unified multi-purpose real estate (see 2/)
registration system that will provide: (a) property owners with security
of ownership rights such that they can sell or rent at fair market
prices and pass on their holdings as inheritances; (b) commercial banks
with the confidence necessary to give secured credit against real
estate; (c) the real estate market with information on ownership and
location of property as needed for the market to function effectively;
(d) government agencies and institutions with basic information for
urban planning and land management; (e) the Government with a basis for
future revenue generation mechanisms through property taxation (fiscal
cadastre); and (f) the private sector with opportunities to develop in
areas related to real estate registration (surveyors, notaries,
valuators).
Project Description
The proposed project includes four components, described below
- 2 -



Component I:   Mapping and Surveying Program.   This component will
finance production of new maps, and updating of existing maps, as
appropriate over five years, in thirty seven (37) municipalities
and rayons (see 3/). Financing will be provided for selective
surveying in support of mapping activities, and in order to
facilitate registration and issuance of real property titles. This
component will comprise the first five years (covering about 4000
km2) of a long term national cadastral mapping program for urban as
well as rural areas.
Component II: Urban Cadastral Services Program. This component
will finance activities and investments to provide the
institutional basis for cadastral information in urban areas to be
registered, provided through titles, stored, administered, and
readily available to all potential users. The elements of this
component are: (a) a Real Estate Registration and Title Issuance
Program, including strengthening of existing registration offices,
establishment of new offices, and support of these offices in title
issuance, title conversion, registration and day-to-day maintenance
of the legal cadastre; and (b) an Information Services Program,
including computer systems implementation, facilitating the
efficient and expedient provision of up-to-date real estate
information services.
Component III:   Rural Cadastral Services Program.    This component
will finance activities and investments to provide the
institutional basis for cadastral information in rural areas to be
registered, provided through titles, stored, administered, and
readily available to all potential users. The elements of this
program are different to the Urban Cadastral Services Program in
that: (a) parcel boundaries and land marks will be determined
through decision-making specific to ongoing farm privatization
processes; and (b) registration and title issuance will take place
through existing local Land Arrangement Services (LAS) offices, by
then subordinated to NAGCC for these specific functions. In all
other aspects, particularly with respect to Information Services
and Institution and Capacity Building, rural areas will be fully
integrated in the project.
Component IV:    Institution and Capacity Building Program.   This
component will finance seven elements of an Institution and
Capacity Building Program, designed to enable Moldovan
institutions, agencies and other stakeholders to fully realize the
project's potential benefits. In particular, institutions and
other stakeholders participating in implementing the project will
be equipped with the necessary skills for effective project
implementation and systems operations. A Project Implementation
Office (PIO) will be established under this component within NAGCC,
to implement, coordinate, and oversee the various project
components.
Project Costs and Financing
Total project costs including physical and price contingencies, and
excluding taxes, are estimated at US$22.9 million equivalent, of which
- 3 -



about 45% are foreign exchange costs. The IBRD loan of US$15.9 million
would finance about 69% of the estimated total project cost (net of
taxes) including 68% of foreign and 69% of local costs.    32% of
estimated foreign costs, amounting to US$3 million equivalent, would be
financed through a donation of equipment and related services by the
Government of Switzerland. The Government counterpart financing is
US$4.0 million or 17% of total project cost (net of taxes). Taxes and
duties related to the project are estimated at US$3.6 million.
Bilateral donors have been approached to provide grant financing for
institution and capacity building requirements involving about US$ 4.5
million or 22% of total project cost (net of taxes). If forthcoming,
the loan amount would be reduced appropriately. However, if this amount
is not mobilized by negotiations, the technical assistance requirements
would be financed from the loan proceeds and counterpart funds.
Project Preparation
The Government of Moldova requested, in autumn 1995, Bank assistance for
the preparation of a project to address the fundamental lack of
ownership security with respect to real estate in Moldova. Project
preparation was carried out jointly with the National Agency for
Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC) and supported through a PHRD
grant (US$681,500) made available to NAGCC in spring 1996, and a Project
Preparation Facility of US$700,000. Other Government agencies, such as
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Privatization and
its Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI), the Ministry of Finance, and
several Municipalities were consulted. In order to establish consensus
among different Government and foreign financing agencies involved in
the sector, a Memorandum of Understanding was drawn up and signed by the
Prime Minister, the Bank, and USAID in mid 1996. As part of project
preparation, NAGCC initiated a pilot program in three test areas,
involving mapping, surveying, and registration activities, as a basis
for method development and project design. Extensive public information
activities, including regular radio and television broadcasts,
accompanied pilot implementation. Before project effectiveness, a
second PHRD grant and/or a second Project Preparation Facility are
expected to finance the establishment of appropriate business processes
in NAGCC, detailed procedures for rural land registration, and related
training for all involved staff, thereby ensuring project quality at
entry
Organization and Implementation
The project would be implemented over a period of five years, under the
overall coordination and supervision of the National Agency for Geodesy,
Cartography, and Cadastre (NAGCC). NAGCC would establish a Project
Implementation Office (PIO) in charge of day to day project management,
including preparation of work plans, budgets and progress reports,
accounting for loan and counterpart funds, procurement and overall
coordination of project implementation activities. NAGCC's central
Registry and Cadastral Services Division, and NAGCC's regional
registration offices (RRO) will be responsible for setting up,
implementing and administering a system for real estate registration and
issuance of real estate titles, including maintaining a central data
base. The existing seventeen (17) Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI)
- 4 -



offices, currently under the Ministry for Privatization, are expected to
be transferred, early 1997, under NAGCC's jurisdiction for this purpose.
Additional twenty (20) offices will be established such that in each of
the thirty seven (37) Moldovan rayons, excluding Transnistria, there
will be a Regional Registration Office. NAGCC's headquarters and
regional offices will work closely with local Land Arrangement Services
(LAS) offices. Coordination with local governments and with the
regional offices of the Department of Architecture within the local
governments will also be essential. NAGCC's mandate for real estate
registration, and for title issuance, will be established through a
National Cadastre Law currently being prepared by the Government.
Two committees will ensure interdepartmental coordination and
cooperation. Since January 1995, NAGCC's operations are overseen by an
Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee (ICC), chaired by a Deputy
Prime Minister. The ICC will continue to be responsible for overall
formulation of policy and coordination with other Ministries and
Agencies. In addition, a Project Implementation Committee (PIC) will be
formed, chaired by the Project Director and responsible for overseeing
direct project progress.
Sustainability
While the project will introduce a land titling and registration system
and involve some institutional changes, it is deliberately designed to
build on the sector's existing organization. Care was taken during
project design to minimize incremental recurrent costs of a permanent
nature, to not endanger sustainability of project achievements beyond
project completion. Cost effectiveness considerations were a critical
aspect of project design and the least cost option was chosen. A cost
recovery system was developed, based on fees for registration of land
transactions, mortgages, and other encumbrances, and fees for other
services. This should limit the amount of budgetary funds needed to
maintain the system.
Lessons Learned From Past Bank Experience
The proposed project would be the first Bank-supported urban sector
operation in Moldova. The Bank's experience with land registration
projects in other transition economies, and the Bank's recent experience
with investment projects in other sectors in Moldova, have shown that
four key factors can help facilitate project implementation: (i)
simplicity of project design; (ii) active Government participation in
project design; (iii) support with project management for agencies
inexperienced in implementing Bank projects; and (iv) intensive
supervision efforts by the Bank. All four factors have been taken into
consideration during the preparation of the proposed project. The
project will be implemented using a phased approach, in urban and rural
areas. The Ministries of Agriculture and Food, and Finance, and
representatives from local governments have been closely associated with
project design. The project allows for an internationally experienced
Project Implementation Advisor to help the project director with overall
management during the initial project years. It is also foreseen that
the Bank allocates above average resources for supervision, particularly
during the initial project years, and that the Resident Mission be
- 5-



closely involved in project supervision.
Poverty
The project is likely to have limited direct impact on the poor, as
there are no specific interventions targeted at the poor. However, as
the poor lack access to finance, but typically own their residence, the
project will help create collateral, and possibly capital, and therefore
will increase their opportunities for improved living standards.
Environment
Based on the current project design, the project has been approved for
category C rating. It will have a positive effect on the environment by
providing reliable and current land information, which will assist in
preparation and enforcement of environmental protection programs, and
identification of polluters. Private land ownership, which the project
would support, is expected to foster prudent use of land and natural
resources.
Participation
Project preparation involved a wide range of stakeholders through
participatory events which sought feedback on proposed project
activities. Feedback from seminars and workshops was integrated into
project design. Project preparation was carried out jointly with the
National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre (NAGCC). Other
Government agencies, such as the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, local
offices of its Land Arrangement Service (LAS), the Ministry of
Privatization and its Bureau of Technical Inventory (BTI), the Ministry
of Finance, and several Municipalities were consulted. Extensive public
information activities, including regular radio and television
broadcasts, accompanied a pilot program.
Program Objective Category
The proposed project would improve the sector economic management
through the successful implementation of a land registration program.
The project will also support private sector development as it will
provide a conducive framework for future market mechanisms for real-
estate, including residential buildings and enterprises. Furthermore,
the new titling and land registration system would support the
development of private surveyor, notary and real estate valuator sectors
in Moldova through the increased demand generated by the project for
these services.
Project Benefits and Risks
The direct and immediate beneficiaries of the project will be existing
and prospective private owners of real property. In providing Moldova
with the institutional, legal and technical basis for effective land
administration, the project will have a positive impact for the economy
as a whole, as well as for its most direct beneficiaries. The project
will spur economic growth through: (a) providing guarantee of ownership
and security of tenure; (b) facilitating the functioning of real estate
- 6 -



markets; (c) supporting privatization in the agricultural sector by
facilitating the break-up of collective farms (kolkhozes); and (d)
supporting effective urban planning. The project will also encourage
private sector development in those areas that are directly involved in
project implementation, in particular the development of a private
surveyor industry, private notaries, and possibly private real estate
valuators. At the same time, activities under the project will lay the
basis for: (a) a fiscal cadastre, and (b) effective environmental land
management.
There are technical/organizational, institutional, and financial risks
associated with the project, as well as risks related to project
acceptance. Technical/organizational risks are mainly related to
NAGCC's implementation capacity, and the capacity of its regional
offices and contracted surveyors to perform project tasks according to
targets. In order to mitigate these risks, and to guide project design,
a pilot activity was undertaken as part of project preparation. On the
basis of this pilot program, and with possible financing through a
second PHRD grant and/or Project Preparation Facility, NAGCC will
prepare appropriate technical and organizational capacity strengthening.
Also, continuos performance monitoring will play an important part in
mitigating capacity risks. Institutional risks are that: (a) political
disagreements may prevent setting up a full national cadastre that would
include rural areas; and (b) legal and institutional changes necessary
to fully exploit the opportunities of the registration system may not be
adopted, e.g. appropriate mortgage legislation, or regulations for land
valuation, urban planning, etc. To mitigate these risks, appropriate
conditionalities and covenants to the loan agreement have been
developed. Furthermore, the existence of the aforementioned
Interdepartmental Coordinating Committee (User Group) will provide a
forum for cadastral interest groups to exchange ideas and to reach
consensus. Financial risks relate mainly to the availability of
Government counterpart funds. This risk is being mitigated through the
development of an appropriate cost recovery strategy. Finally, there is
the risk that property owners may lack confidence in the registration
system, and understanding of the benefits of land registration, and thus
may not make appropriate use of it. This risk would be addressed by
keeping the project and the system as simple as possible, utilizing
public information instruments whenever possible, including an open,
transparent process aimed specifically at informing the public about the
benefits, procedures, and costs of land registration, specifying the
role of appropriate government agencies and other actors involved.
1/   Officially published wage data are based on the Government's
monthly household survey, the methodology for which is currently under
review with assistance from the Bank. More reliable data are expected
to be available as of spring 1997.
2/   The English word 'real estate' refers here to the Moldovan word
'bun imobil', defined as "the land parcels and the goods related to
these parcels (soil, water, forests, buildings, construction, etc.)
whose removal is impossible without causing direct damage to their
usage" (Land Code, Article 2).
3/   Excluding Transnistria, there are two municipalities and 35 rayons
-7 -



in Moldova. The inclusion of transnistria in the project scope (two
additional municipalities and five rayons) will be reviewed during
project implementation.
Contact Point:       Task Manager: Mats Andersson, EC4MS
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 458-5578 (tel)
(202) 522-3641 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 30, 1997.
- 8 -



