Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3061-1-MD  
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(First Cadastre Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 7, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 
3061-1-MD 
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 2005 between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS 
(A) 
the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Credit Number 3061 MD) (First Cadastre Project) dated 
June 8, 1998 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the 
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Project); 
 
(B) 
  the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of the Project in an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Amending Agreement. 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. (A) The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement and apply in 
respect of the Initial Financing (hereinafter defined): 
 
(a) 
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted. 
 
(b) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in 
Page  3
-
2
-
the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
 
(c) 
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
 
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect 
to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the 
execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely 
and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association determines 
that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn 
from the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of 
the Credit shall be canceled.” 
 
(B) 
 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement and apply in respect of the Additional Financing 
(hereinafter defined): 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed under the 
Credit, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of 
such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits.  To that end, if the Association 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of 
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in 
the Development Credit Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy 
of the Association. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive”.” 
 
Section 1.02. Section 1.02. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by  
revising paragraphs (b) and (f) to read as follows, and by deleting the “and” at the end of 
paragraph (n), substituting “; and” for “.” at the end of paragraph (o) and adding new 
paragraphs (p), (q) and (r)
 
to read as follows: 
 
“(b) “ALRC” means the Agency for Land Relations and Cadastre of the 
Borrower; 
 
(f)  “INGEOCAD” means Institute for Engineering, Geodesy and Land Surveys 
under the Control of ALRC; 
 
(p) 
“Amending Agreement” means the agreement amending the 
Development Credit Agreement (First Cadastre Project) between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated June 8, 1998
;
(q) 
 “Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
 
(r)  “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
May 11, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, 
as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of 
Project implementation
.”
Section 1.03. In Section 1.02 (d) the acronym “NAGCC” is deleted and replaced 
with the acronym “ALRC’.” 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 1.04. Section 2.01. of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to  thirteen million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,500,000) (the Credit), consisting of: 
(i) an original amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,500,000) (the Initial 
Financing); and (ii) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to  two 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000) (the Additional Financing).” 
 
Section 1.05. The following new paragraph (d) is added to Section 2.02. of the 
Development Credit Agreement: 
 
“(d) 
 
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, all amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account or made subject to a special 
commitment pursuant to Section 5.02. of the General Conditions shall be withdrawn from 
the Initial Financing until such Financing has been exhausted, and thereafter shall be 
from the Additional Financing.” 
 
Section 1.06. The Closing Date set forth in Section 2.03 of the Development 
Credit Agreement is extended to “June 30, 2007”. 
 
Section 1.07. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04. (b) (i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“; provided, however, that the commitment charge on the Additional Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Amending Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.08. The word “Credit” referred to in Section 2.07 of the Development 
Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced with the words “Initial Financing”.” 
 
Section 1.09. Section 2.08 of the Development Credit Agreement is renumbered 
as Section 2.09., and a new Section 2.08 is added to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.09. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Additional Financing in semiannual installments 
payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2015 and ending  
January 15, 2045. Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
January 15, 2025 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
Page  6
-
5
-
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower
’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A)  requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Additional Financing shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B)  requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of 
the Additional Financing as of the first semiannual payment date referred to 
in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace 
period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Additional Financing 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above.” 
 
Section 1.10. Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
Page  7
-
6
-
later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association
’s approval.” 
 
Section 1.11. Article IV of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:  
“Article IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
Page  8
-
7
-
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) ena
ble the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 10 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds; 
 
(ii) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date of this 
Amending Agreement, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.” 
 
Section 1.12.  
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 (Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit) of the Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended as set forth in the 
Annex to this Agreement. 
 
 
Section 1.13. 
In Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, paragraph 
4
is amended to read as follows: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
“4. (a) The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account for the 
Initial Financing to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for: (i) goods, technical services and works under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent; (ii) incremental operating costs; and (iii) services under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 each for the employment of consulting firms and under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each for the employment of individual consultants, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.   
 
(b)  
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account for 
the Additional Financing to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for 
expenditures for goods and technical services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.”   
 
Section 
1.14. 
 In Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement, 
 
Parts B.1(b) and (c) are amended by deleting the numbers “about 300,000” and “about 
30,000”, respectively, and Part C.1 (b) is amended by deleting the number “about 
200,000”.  
 
Section 1.15.  
The Project Completion Date set forth in Schedule 2 of the  
Development Credit Agreement is extended to “December 31, 2006”. 
 
Section 1.16.   In Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
acronym “NAGCC” referred to in Parts B.1(a), B.2, C.2 and D.2 is replaced with 
acronym “ALRC”.  
 
Section 1.17.  
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
 
“
Schedule 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
Page  10
-
9
-
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts for goods, works and technical services shall be awarded on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 
of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of 
bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Works and technical services estimated to cost 
less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions:  
A. Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic firms
.
B. 
Procedures
‘Open Tendering’ shall be followed in all cases. Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper allowing a minimum 
of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids.  
C. Pre-qualification
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works, invitations 
to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national 
daily newspaper a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of 
pre-qualification applications. Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements 
shall be explicitly stated in the pre-qualification documents. Prequalification shall be 
determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method and not through use of a merit point system. 
 
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Page  11
-
10
-
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Moldova shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government. Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
 
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint 
venture partners will be jointly and severally liable under the Contract. 
 
F. Bidding 
Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods, works or services, and shall contain draft contract and conditions 
of contract, all acceptable to the Association.  
 
G. 
Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation
(a) 
 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids.  
 
(b) 
 
Bids must be made in writing in original and facsimile copies are 
not acceptable. 
 
(c) 
 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point 
system shall not be used. 
 
(d) 
 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more 
than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be requested without the prior 
approval of the Association. 
 
(e) 
 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(f) 
 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 
H. Price 
Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
I. 
Rejection of Bids
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Association’s 
prior concurrence. 
 
J. Contracts
All contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by authorized signatories of 
the Purchaser and the Supplier and contain identical terms and conditions of contract to 
those included in the tender documents. 
 
K. Securities
Bid Securities should not exceed 2% (two percent) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; Performance Securities not more than 10% (ten percent). No advance payments 
shall be made to Contractors without a suitable Advance Payment security. The wording 
of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and be acceptable to 
the Association.”
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods, works and technical services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B 
of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  13
-
12
-
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Association.” 
 
Section 1.18.  In Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement, the acronym 
“NAGCC” referred to in paragraphs 1 and 3 is replaced with acronym “ALRC”, and the 
acronym “IRCIM” referred to in paragraph 4 is replaced with acronym “INGEOCAD”.  
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01.   This Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action. 
 
Section 2.02.  As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to 
 
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion or 
opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, 
on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03.  This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Section 2.04.  If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this Amending 
Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall 
terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  
If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA 
 
By  /s/  Mihail Manoli 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/  Paul Bermingham 
 
Authorized 
Representative 
Page  15
-
14
-
ANNEX  
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
“1. 
(a) The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Initial Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Initial Financing to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category: 
 Amount 
of 
the 
 
 
Initial Financing  
 
 
 
Allocated  
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures  
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
547,811 
                 80%  
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,766,332                        100% of foreign  
 
expenditures  
 
 
100% of local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) and 80% of  
 
local expenditures for other  
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Technical Services 
5,466,648 
     
100% 
 
(4) Consultants’ 
 
231,836 
 
100% 
 services, 
 
 
 
 
 including 
audits 
 
 
 
 and 
training 
 
 
 
 
(5) 
Incremental 
2,572,764 
60% of expenditures incurred 
 Operating 
Costs
 
through December 1, 2001; 
 
30%
of expenditures  
 
incurred through  
 
December 1, 2003 
 
(6) 
Refunding of  
914,609 
 Amount due pursuant to 
 
Project Preparation 
                            
Section 2.02 (c) of the                     
 
Advance 
 
 Development Credit Agreement  
 
(7) Unallocated 
 
0 
 
 
 
TOTAL 11,500,000
Page  16
-
15
-
(b)  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Additional Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Additional 
Financing to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Additional 
 
Financing Allocated 
           % of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures  
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works 
0  0% 
 
 
(2) 
Goods 
 
67,000  100% 
 
(3) 
Technical Services 
 1,933,000 
 
100% 
 
(4) 
Consultants’  
0 
 
0% 
 services, 
 
 
 
 
 including 
audits 
 
 
 
 and 
training 
 
 
 
 
(5) 
Incremental 
0  0% 
 Operating 
Costs 
 
 
 
 
(6) 
Refunding of  
0           Amount due pursuant to 
 
Project Preparation 
                            Section 2.02 (c) of the                     
 
Advance 
                           Development Credit Agreement   
 
(7) 
Unallocated 
 
0   
 
TOTAL 2,000,000
”
