                                            Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                           ReportNo: 32344-MD


                      INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                 PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGOF SDR 2.0 MILLION

                                 (US$3 .O MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                             FORTHE

                                   FIRSTCADASTRE PROJECT




                                         PROJECTPAPER




                                          MAY 23,2005




Infrastructureand EnergyDepartment
Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine Country Management Unit
Europe and CentralAsia Region



This document has a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance
oftheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank
authorization.

CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective as o f May 5,2005)

                          Currency Unit = MoldovanLeu(MDL)
                              0.08MDL     = US$l
                                  US$l.O  = 12.475 MDL




                                   FISCAL YEAR

                              January 1   - December31




                       ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ALRC     Agency for Land Cadastre
BCO      BranchCadastre Office
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IDA      International Development Association
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
P I 0    Project Implementation Office
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
S        Shopping
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SIDA     SwedishInternationalDevelopment CooperationAgency
TCO      Territorial Cadastre Office
USAID    UnitedStates Agency for International Development




                         Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
              Country ManagedDirector:        Paul G. Bermingham
                        Sector Manager:       S. Lee Travers
                      Task Team Leader:       Maha J. Armaly

                        TABLEOFCONTENTS


Data Sheet                                                 1

I.
 Introduction                                              2

11.Background and Rationale for Additional Financing       2

111.Proposed Changes                                       4

IV.Consistency with CAS                                    5

V. Economic Analysis o fCost Overrunor Financing Gap       6

VI. Appraisal of Restructuredor Scaled-up Projects         6

VII. ExpectedOutcomes                                      9

VIII. Benefits and Risks                                   9

IX.FinancialTerms andConditions for AdditionalFinancing    9


               MOLDOVA CADASTRESUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT


Date: May 23,2005                              Team Leader: MahaArmaly
Country: Moldova                               Sector Manager: S. Lee Travers
Project Name: First CadastreProject            Country Director: Paul G. Bermingham


Responsible agency: Agency for Land Relations and Cadastre




Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes: The objectives ofthe project remain
the same: To buildaunifiedrealestate registrationprogram for rural andurbanland, and
therebyto establish a clear and enforceable ownership rights to promote the privatization
o f landandthe development o f the real estatemarket inMoldova.

Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o
                                                                      -
                                For Additional Financing
                                           P




[ ] Loan   [x ] Credit   [ ] Grant [ 3 Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
        Total Bank financing (US$m.):          $3.0 million
        Proposedterms:                          IDA Credit
                                Financing Plan (US$m.)



IBRD/IDA
Others




                                             1

                       Moldova-First Cadastre Project
                  Additional Financing for Project Scale-up
                                 ProjectPaper

I. Introduction

     This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the ExecutiveDirectors to provide an
     additional credit inan amount o fUS$ 3.0 million equivalent to the Moldova-
     First Cadastre Project (PE-P035771), Credit Number 3061-MD. The
    proposed additional credit would help finance the costs associated with
     scaling up activities to enhance the impact o f a well performingproject.
     Additional financing will (i)  fundsurveyingactivities inpreparationfor
    registration; and (ii) update existinginformation systemto consolidate data
     from all territorial cadastral offices and improve information flow. The
     government has agreed to provide financing for incrementaloperating costs
     including registrationactivities and the operation o f the Project
     ImplementationOffice (PIO).

    Parallel financing, inthe form o f grants, to support the First Cadastre Project
    was providedby several donors, includingNorway for public information, and
     Switzerland for equipment, technical assistance and training for the mapping
    agency. Swedenprovided financing for technical assistance for all aspects o f
    project implementationand remains the most active partner. Swedish
    technical assistance covered surveying, mapping, legal framework,
    accounting, valuation and fiscal cadastre. Considerable training was also
    provided inside and outside Moldova. Swedencontinues to support the
    project, including finalizing a business plan for the Agency for Land Cadastre
    (ALRC). Discussions were heldwith SIDA to continue support for the
    project. USAIDhas provided financing for privatization o f agricultural land,
    and remains involved inthe process o f land consolidation.

11. Backgroundand Rationale for Additional Financing

    Project Development Obiectives and Scope: The original credit o f SDR 11.5
    million (USD15.9 million equivalent) was approved by the Board o f
    ExecutiveDirectors on April 23, 1998, andbecame effective inMarch 1999.
    The Project's primary objective is to develop and implement a national
    unifiedreal estateregistrationprogramfor urban andrural land, and thereby
    to establish a system o f clear and enforceable ownership rights so as to
    promote the privatization o f land and the development o freal estate markets
    inMoldova. The project also aimedto (a) providepropertyowners with
    security o f ownership rights such that they can sell or rent real estate or pass
    on their holdings as inheritances; (b) commercial banks with the confidence
    necessaryto give secured credit against real estate; (c) the real estate market
    with information on ownership ofproperty for the market to function
    effectively; (d) government agencies and institutionswith basic information



                                         2

 for urban planning and landmanagement; (e) the real estate market with
 information on property values; and (f)the private sector with opportunities to
 develop inareas related to real estate registration (surveyors, notaries,
 valuers). The project objective and scope remained consistent throughout
 project implementation.

 Proiect Performance to Date: The project has been successful inreaching its
 objective. The Agency for Land Registration and Cadastre has the sole
 responsibility for developing and maintaining the real estate registration
 system inMoldova. A committee o f other government stakeholders,
 including Ministries of Economy, Agriculture, Finance and Justice oversees
 the work ofthe Agency. Real estate owners have one stop to undertake real
 estate registration tasks inthe Territorial Cadastre Offices (TCOs) of the
 ALRC. A unifiedregistration system is considered best practice inthe region
 interms ofsimplifying the process for real estate owners as well as managing
 and making best use of the system from the government's view. It facilitates
 planning and expansion of use into other areas, such as fiscal cadastre.

 The Project has exceeded appraisal estimates interms of its accomplishment.
 Inthe urban areas, for example, at appraisal, a total of330,000 objects were
 expected to be registered. By December 2004, a total of about 550,000
 objects were surveyed and registered. Inthe rural areas, the objectives o f the
project were modest, given the uncertainty o f farm privatization at the time.
The project aimed to register 220,000 land plots and managed to survey and
register about 290,000 land plots by December 2004. U S A I D provided
substantial aid to the privatization o f agricultural land and financed the
surveying o f about 90% of farm lands. The First Cadastre Project assisted in
the registration ofthese parcels. All told, about 75% ofthe estimated number
ofproperties inthe country is now registered. Additionally, the cadastre
agency registered mortgages, transactions and encumbrances through its
responsibility for maintaining the integrity and update ofthe data. These
numbers will increase by the time o fproject completion.

Other project objectives were also accomplished. The cadastral survey
industry, which was state owned at the beginning o f the project, is n o w a
vibrant and competitive industrywith updated equipment andskills. The
system now provides secure property rights to owners. This is reflected inthe
increased number of transactions such as sales, leases and inheritances. The
increased numbers o f mortgages registered reflect the confidence o f
commercial banks and their reliance o n the system to verify ownership and to
record transactions and encumbrances. The number of mortgages doubled
between 2000 and 2001 with a further 50% increase in2002. Leaseholds are
increasing particularly in the agricultural area and are being used, along with
sales, inthe process o f agricultural landconsolidation. Institutionally, the
A L R C i s a stronger organization well staffed with skilled professionals. It




                                   3

     continues to improve the system to ensure its sustainability inconsultation
     with branches o f govemment.

     Proiect implementation has been satisfactory. The project overcame start-up
     difficulties usually associated with projects innew environments. The Project
     Implementation Office (PIO) became acquainted with Bank requirements,
     some o f which became more rigorous duringproject implementation, such as
     financial management. Government commitment ensured that the appropriate
     staff were appointed. Training was provided on the Bank's fiduciary
     requirements and systems were established that responded to project
     development. Counterpart financing was available, and for a time was
     provided through a Dutch grant for IDA financed projects inMoldova. There
     has been a strong overall effort to review andimprove project portfolio
     implementation inMoldova through a combined and sustained effort by the
     World Bank and the Government. While some PI0 management tumover
     caused concern, project implementation continued on track. Donor financing
     o f technical assistance and training added considerable value to technical
     skills available to Moldova at the time. The Credit was extended from
     February 2004 to November 2005 inorder to utilize available funds to
     undertake more survey and registration activities, andto resolve procurement
     issues that arose. Audits were submitted on time and had unqualified opinions
     with suggestions for improvement which were taken into account and
     discussed with the World Bank. Project supervision was reviewed by the
     Quality Assurance Group in September 2004, and was rated satisfactory, with
     some elements ratedhighly satisfactory.

     Rationale for the Borrower's Request: The request for continued World Bank
     support to develop the real estate cadastre inMoldova was articulated inthe
     PRSP adopted by the Government inDecember 2004. The formal request by
     the Government dated March2005 indicated the desire to scale up the
     activities to enhance the development impact o f a well performingproject.
     The Government aims to survey and register all properties inthe country and
     to leverage resources and existing institutional capacities andmomentum to
     enhance the potential for success. This strategy would ensure equity among
     real estate holders, improve planning andmanagement o f land and natural
     resources, and enhance capacities to implement fiscal cadastre.

111. Proposed Changes

     The changes proposed to the project are clear. Additional financing is being
     requested to undertake (i)   additional surveying for an estimated 400,000 -
     450,000 objects; and (ii)   upgrade o f the existing information system. The
     additional financing will not fund registration and PI0 activities which will be
     taken over by the govemment to start transitioning the cadastre and
     registration activities to the government as the Bank withdraws from the
     sector. These components are the main elements o f the First Cadastre Project.



                                        4

     The proposed changes would require an amendment to the Development
     Credit Agreement (3061-MD) to increase the credit amount, amend the
     disbursement categories, and establish a new schedule for repayment
     arrangements. Project costs will increase by $4.50 million, includingthe
     government's contribution. Further, with the ongoing Swedishassistance, the
     government will adopt the business planthat will consolidate the cadastral
     offices and that will improve the financial sustainability framework o freal
     estateregistrationand cadastre. The consolidation o f the Territorial Cadastre
     Offices (TCOs) and their BranchCadastre Offices (BCOs) under the umbrella
     o f ALRC i s an important step towards improved management o f the system.
     Strengthening government oversight o f the system i s requiredto ensure cost
     control, affordable fees, and overall operational and financial sustainability o f
    the system. Disbursement arrangements will utilize the new financing
    parameters for Moldova. The new implementation schedule, taking into
    account the long implementationperiodo f a typical survey contract, andthe
    time needed for registration, indicates that the closing date for the Additional
    Financingwill be June 30,2007. N o changes to the project description or
    objective are needed. A draft amendment to the Development Credit
    Agreement has beenprepared.

IV. Consistency with the CAS

    The First Cadastre Projecthasbeen consistent with Country Assistance
    Strategies since its approval by the Board. Transformationto a market
    economy, buildingmarket institutions and private sector development have
    been themes o f CASs agreedbetween the World Bank and the Government.
    The latest CAS ofNovember 2004 aims to promote sustainable growth and to
    reduce highlevels o fpovertyby relying on three pillars: (i)   promoting
    conditions for sustained growth and employment creation; (ii)    improving
    access to social capital and services and community infrastructure; and (iii)
    improving public sector govemance and combating corruption. The first
    pillar relies on improving the business climate. Real estate registration and
    enforcement of ownership rights i s an essential element o fprivate sector
    development. The report on "Doing Business in2005" showed that delays in
    private propertyregistrationacted as deterrent to business development.
    Agriculture remains an important sector inMoldova and constitutes about
    22% o f GDP in2004. The First Cadastre Project has assisted inthe
    registrationo f farm land, continues to register transactions leadingto
    consolidationo f land inthe sector, and consistently supports market means for
    such consolidationthrough sales and leaseholds. The Agency for Land
    Relations and Cadastre i s a comerstone inthe government structure in
    supporting the legal framework for private property. While not directly
    targeting poverty, the project ensures the legality o f ownership o fthe most
    tangible asset that the population at large receivedafter privatization, and
    allows the populationto utilize these assets to their best value for the owners.




                                      5

V.   Economic Analysis o f Cost Overrun or Financing Gap

    Not Applicable. This request i s for additional financing for scale up o f
     activities.

VI. Appraisal o f Restructuredor Scaled-up Projects.

    Institutional: The activities under the project are similar to the ones already
    beingfinanced under the First Cadastre Project. The institutional framework
     and staffing are already inplace. The Project Implementation Office will
    continue to prepare semi-annual project reports. Adopting and implementing
    the business plan for consolidating the cadastral offices and strengthening
    oversight will be an important contribution to the institutional framework.

    Technical: The additional financing will support surveying activities that
    have been undertaken under the First Cadastre Project for the last 5 years.
    Technical capacities inthe country exist and supervision capacity at the PI0 is
    available. The update o f the information system i s a continuing activity from
    the First Cadastre Project following a study to improve data integrity and
    consolidation through improved communications among cadastral offices.

    Safeguards: The First Cadastre Project was given an Environmental Category
         -
    C. The additional financing will have similar rating. The additional financing
    will not fund any new civil works, and land acquisition issues will not be
    triggered. Inthe long term, an improved cadastre and mapping system can
    have a positive impact on the environment byproviding current and reliable
    land information which can assist inpreparation and enforcement o f
    environmental protection programs and better management o f land resources.

    Financial Management: The financial management system for the First
    Cadastre Project exists and has been reviewed by the Bank. The system will
    be used to incorporate the expenditures financed by the additional credit and
    the government's counterpart funds under the additional financing. The
    project accounts o f the First Cadastre Project have been audited annually
    throughout implementation. Audits were submitted on time and had
    unqualified opinions with suggestions for improvement which were taken into
    account and discussed with the Bank.

    Procurement: Based on experience under the First Cadastre Project, shopping
    and national competitive procedures for the procurement o f technical surveys
    and software will be used. InMoldova, for technical surveys, small works
    delivered lower costs per parcel surveyed, allowed more firms to compete,
    and were easier to implement and monitor given the proximity o f branch
    cadastral offices to the areas being surveyed. Because o f the limitedtime,
    delays in large contracts will be costly. Software for improvement o f the
    information system will be procured based on shopping in one package. The



                                      6

          Bank will review two packages for procurement o ftechnical surveys and the
          package for procurement o f goods.

   Description Estimated Procurement            Bid         Award       Start    End
                  cost        Method            Opening Recomm. Date             Date
A. Survey
   Contracts
1. 7 contracts    <$100,000 S -Technical        June        July 2005   Aug.     Sept. 2006
                  each         Services         2005                    2005
2. 1contracts     <$300,000 NCB-                July        August      Sept.    March2007
                  each        Technical         2005        2005        2005
                              Services
3. 8 contracts    <$lOO,OOO   S -Technical      July        August      Sept.    Nov. 2006
                  each        Services          2005        2005        2005
4. 4 contracts    <$300,000   NCB-              Sept.       Sept.       Sept.    May. 2007
                  each        Technical         2005        2005        2005
                              Services


   Equipment
1. Oracle         <$lOO,OOO   S - goods         June        July        August   Nov. 2005
   update with                                  2005        2005        2005
   options

          Procurement planningfor technical surveys will be done insuch a way as to
          ensure completiono f surveyinginareas where coverage is close to
          completion inorder to prepare for the consolidationof offices inthe near
          future.

          Counterpart Funds: Total govemment fundingrequiredi s estimated at $1S O
          million. This will cover the costs for registrationo f surveyedobjects at a total
          estimated cost o f $1,000,000. PI0 staff and operational costs will also be
          covered by the govemment starting inDecember 2005, and the estimated cost
          i s $500,000. The government contributionto these categories which were
          previouslypartly financed by the Bank will enable transition and Bank exit.

          Sustainabilitv: Real estate registrationi s the basis for private property
          ownership and a market economy. Moldova i s on a firm roadto a market
          economy, and the system, i s therefore inherentlysustainable as the basis for
          the transition and sustainability ofthe market. Moldova has taken the
          decisions to establish a modem legal and institutional framework for the
          cadastreregistrationsystem and i s committed to continue to maintain and
         update it. The additional financing will ensure further action i s taken to
          enable the system to meet the challenges. The ALRC has introduced a
         proposal to Parliament to consolidate the cadastre offices operations. It has
         also introduced aproposal to ensure that tariffs recover costs, while remaining
         affordable to the population. These proposals have taken into account Bank
         recommendations and studies supported by Swedishassistance. The


                                            7

         Government has confirmed its commitment to take action with regard to
         consolidation of the cadastral offices and to adhere to cost recovery principles
         while ensuring the financial sustainability o f the cadastral system. The
         government's commitment to the sustainability o f the system is reflected in
         takingresponsibility for the operational costs to prepare for Bank exit.
         Further, the government aims to buildonthe legal cadastre to strengthen fiscal
         cadastre and has allocated funds for this purpose.

         Additional Financing by Category (US$):




         Revised Disbursement Schedule:

         1SDR =US$ 1.5 as o fMay 9,2005.

   Category                   Original       Additional     Current % of         Yo of
                           Amount of the     Financing      Expenditures     Expenditures
                               Credit        Allocated     to beFinanced        to be
                              Allocated      (Expressed                      Financedfor
                           (Expressedin        inUS$                          Additional
                               SDR)            Equiv)                         Financing
   Works                   170,000                         90%
                                                           .
   Goods                   3,630,000         100,000       100%of            100%
                                                           Foreign
                                                           expenditures,
                                                           100%of local
                                                           expenditures)
   Technical Services      4,000,000         2,900,000     100%              100%
   Consultants' Services   450,000                         100%
   (including audits and
   training)
   Incremental             1,550,000                       100%through
   Operating Costs                                         December 1,
                                                           2001,60% of
                                                           expenditures
                                                           through
                                                           December 1,
                                                           2003
6  Refunding o f Project   1.350.000


                                           8

   PreparationAdvances
7  Unallocated             350,000

   Total                   11,500,000        3,000,000




 VII.  Expected Outcomes

       The additional financing would support surveying and registration activities
       for about 400,000-450,000 more parcels. This would increase the coverage to
       about 85% to be accomplished by the end o f the Project by June 30,2007.
       The Government showed commitment to complete the surveying and
       registration o f the remaining parcels inthe country. This would make
       Moldova one o fthe first countries inthe CIS to complete land andreal estate
       registration to such a large extent, and would facilitate the registration o f the
       remaining real estate parcels. This accomplishment would facilitate further
       services provided by the Cadastre such as planning and monitoring ofphysical
       infrastructure andnatural resources. Inaddition, it would further assist the
       govemment inits objective to buildan equitable fiscal cadastre that would
       cover the whole country and to receive Bank advice inthis area.

 VIII. Benefits and Risks

       The benefits arising from additional financing o f the First Cadastre would
       largely supplement the benefits envisaged and accrued originally. These
       include: (a) providing guarantee o f ownership and security o f tenure; (b)
       facilitating the functioning o f real estate markets; (c) supporting privatization
       inthe agricultural sector; and(d) supporting effective urbanplanning.

       The additional financing would be implemented ina much less risky
       environment than at the inception o f the First Cadastre. The institutional and
       legal frameworks have been developed, and the capacity o f the Agency for
       Land Relations and Cadastre i s well established with skilled staff inthe
       technical and legal areas. Staff are familiar with the requirements o fthe
       World Bank. The population and the commercial banks are familiar with the
       system and rely on it to undertake transactions inthe real estate market.
       Government counterpart fundinghas been assured.

 IX.  Financial Terms and Conditions for Additional Financing

      The additional credit would be an IDA Credit repayable in40 years, including
      a grace period of 10 years.




                                          9


