Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3061 MD
Development Credit Agreement
(First Cadastre Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 8, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3061 MD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Switzerland a 
grant (the Swiss Grant) in an amount of three million seven hundred thousand Swiss 
Francs (CHF 3,700,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions 
to be set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Grant Agreement) between the Borrower and 
the Government of Switzerland;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Sweden a grant 
(the Swedish Grant) in an amount equivalent to one million six hundred thousand 
Dollars (US $1,600,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions 
to be set forth in an agreement (the Swedish Grant Agreement) between the Borrower and 
the Government of Sweden;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Cadastre Law” means the Borrower’s draft Law on Real Estate Cadastre and 
Registration of Immovable Property referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“NAGCC” means the National Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre 
of the Borrower;
(c)
“TCO” means a territorial cadastral office under the Cadastre Law;
(d)
“Decision No. 727” means Government Decision No. 727 dated December 30, 
1996, transferring the Bureau of Technical Inventory offices under the control of 
NAGCC;
Page  3
(e)
“Interdepartmental Coordination Council” means the interdepartmental 
coordination council established by Government Decision No. 22 dated January 15, 1996, 
and referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
“IRCIM” means the Institute for Engineering, Geodesy and Land Surveys 
under the control of NAGCC;
(g)
“Project Implementation Office” or “PIO” means the Project Implementation 
Office to be established pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Project Manager” means the Project Manager to be appointed as head of 
the PIO pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(i)
“Operating Procedures” means operating principles and procedures for 
Project implementation and referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)
“Project Implementation Adviser” means a consultant to be appointed to 
assist the PIO in project implementation pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this 
Agreement;
(k)
“Computer Systems Adviser” means a consultant appointed to assist the PIO 
in information technology and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(l)
“Project Preparation Advances” means the project preparation advances 
granted by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to the 
Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated March 5, 1996 and March 15, 1996 (as 
amended on November 14, 1996) and April 11, 1997 and April 25, 1997 between the 
Borrower and the Bank;
(m)
“Lei” means the currency of the Borrower;
(n)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement; and
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association , including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Bank the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be canceled.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2008 and ending January 15, 2033.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2018 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
Page  5
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
cadastral, administrative, financial, engineering and managerial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
Page  6
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Cadastre Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
carry out, or achieve the objectives of, the Project;
(b)
Decision No. 727 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
carry out, or achieve the objectives of, the Project;
(c)
The Swiss Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by the 
date falling two months after the date of this Agreement, or such later date as the 
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall 
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that 
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement; and
(d)
(i)
(A) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of 
the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or loan made 
to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing 
therefor; or (B) any such loan shall have become due and 
payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and  conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: the events specified in paragraphs (a), 
(b), (c) (subject to the proviso thereto) and (d)(i)(B) (subject to the proviso of 
sub-paragraph(d)(ii)) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  7
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:  
(a)
the Project Account shall have been opened in local currency in the 
National Bank of Moldova or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, and an 
initial deposit of Lei 698,000 shall have been made by the Borrower into said account;
(b)
the Cadastre Law shall have been adopted by the Parliament of the 
Borrower together with all necessary amendments to existing legislation;
(c)
implementing regulations under the Cadastre Law acceptable to the 
Association shall have been adopted by the Government of the Borrower;
(d)
the Project Implementation Office shall have been established within 
NAGCC and a Project Manager, a Project Implementation Advisor and key staff shall have 
been appointed with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association;
(e)
operating procedures, acceptable to the Association, shall have been 
adopted by NAGCC and a reporting and accounting system, acceptable to the Association, 
shall have been established within the PIO; and
(f)
the Swedish Grant Agreement shall have been executed and delivered and 
all conditions precedent to its effectiveness shall have been fulfilled, other than 
those relating to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonaut Street, 7
277005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Telex:
(3732) 22 86 10
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  8
Chisinau, Republic of Moldova, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Anatol Arapu 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Grawe Regional 
Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
170,000
80%
(2)
Goods
     3,630,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Technical Services
     4,000,000
100%
(4)
Consultants’ Services
450,000
100%
and training
(5)
Incremental Operating     1,550,000
60% of expenditures incurred 
Costs
through December 1, 2001;
30% of expenditures incurred 
through December 1, 2003
(6)
Refunding of Project
      1,350,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advances
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
               350,000
            __________
TOTAL
            11,500,000
             =========
Page  9
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “technical services” means aerial photography and surveying 
services (including updating of existing maps); and
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the operating costs of the 
PIO, the TCOs and other government agencies involved in Project implementation which 
would not have been incurred absent the Project and includes mapping costs, 
registration and title development costs, public information costs, staff salaries 
(other than salaries of government officials) and training costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods, technical 
services and works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent ; (ii) 
incremental operating costs; and (iii) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 each for the employment of consulting firms and under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each for the employment of individual consultants, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in developing and 
implementing its national unified real estate registration program for rural and urban 
land through the establishment of  a system of clear and enforceable ownership rights, 
so as to promote, inter alia, the privatization of land and the development of real 
estate markets in Moldova.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Mapping Program
Production of new maps and updating existing maps in about four (4) 
municipalities and thirty-two (32) rayons, covering a total surface area of about 1800 
square kilometers, through the use of aerial photography, photogrammetric activities 
and geodesic surveying activities.
Part B:
Urban Cadastral Services Program
1.
Implementation of a real property registration program in urban areas, through:
(a)
carrying out of rehabilitation works, and provision of operational 
support, equipment and vehicles for about twelve (12) TCOs and the central office in 
NAGCC;
(b)
undertaking systematic adjudication and registration of real property 
rights covering about 300,000 urban and intra-villan properties; and
(c)
undertaking sporadic adjudication, registration of real property rights 
covering about 30,000 urban and intra-villan properties.
2.
Implementation of a cadastral services program in urban areas, through (i) 
installation of cadastral databases in twelve (12) TCOs; (ii) collection and 
registration of information in such databases; and (iii) the transfer, consolidation 
Page  10
and maintenance of data in the national database maintained in the central office in 
NAGCC.
Part C:
Rural Cadastral Services Program
1.
Implementation of a real property registration program in rural (extra-villan) 
areas, through:
(a)
provision of operational support, equipment and vehicles for about twenty 
four (24) TCOs; and
(b)
undertaking adjudication and registration of real property rights 
covering about 200,000 rural properties;
2.
Implementation of a cadastral services program in rural areas, through (i) 
installation of cadastral databases in twenty-four (24) TCOs; (ii) collection and 
registration of information in such databases; and (iii) the transfer, consolidation 
and maintenance of data in the national database maintained in the central office in 
NAGCC.
Part D:
Institution and Capacity Building Program
1.
Training
Provision of training programs and training equipment for NAGCC and related 
organizations involved in Project implementation as well as for universities with 
education programs in cadastre-related activities and professions.
2.
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to NAGCC for project implementation; 
management of information systems; procurement; accounting; development of the legal 
framework for a real estate market; property valuation; public information; and 
quality assurance.
3.
Project Implementation Office
Provision of support for the operations of the Project Implementation Office.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods, technical services and works shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and technical 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
Page  11
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and technical services shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Technical services contracts estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Technical services contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 per 
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods, technical services and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to (i) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of two 
hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) or more; (ii) each contract for goods, technical 
services and works awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part B of this 
Schedule; and (iii) the first contract for technical services contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1, and for works awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Part C.4 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
Page  12
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract for goods awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall 
apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract;
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 
(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines” Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for study programs abroad under Part D of the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 
3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 5.1 through 5.3.  
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
Page  13
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project Implementation Office within NAGCC: 
(i) is maintained at all times with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the 
Association and with a Project Manager and key staff with qualifications, experience 
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) is assisted for at 
least one year following the date of this Agreement, by a Project Implementation 
Adviser and a Computer Systems Adviser, with qualifications, experience and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall, at all times maintain the Interdepartmental Coordination 
Council, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister to coordinate Project implementation, 
with members and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that NAGCC, PIO, IRCIM and the TCOs at all times 
follow Operating Procedures agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
4.
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Project Account referred to in Section 
6.01 of this Agreement, and shall replenish said account promptly before each quarter 
with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under Section 
3.01 of this Agreement for such period; (ii) use said account for financing the 
Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures; and (iii) ensure that sufficient 
annual allocations will be made in the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s 
counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project.
5.
No later than March 1, 1999, the Borrower shall undertake a study of the 
development of surveying activities with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the preparation of a specific action plan to support 
private sector development in surveying activities, and shall furnish such study to 
the Association not later than July 1, 1999.
6.
No later than July 1, 1999, the Borrower shall undertake a study of the 
development of notarial, valuation and real estate agency activities, including an 
overview of the development of the real estate market and the commercial use of real 
estate information, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, which 
shall include the preparation of a specific action plan to support private sector 
development in such activities, and shall furnish such study to the Association not 
later than September 1, 1999.
7.
No later than December 31, 1999, the Borrower shall submit draft legislation to 
its Parliament, satisfactory to the Bank, to remove any effective impediments to the 
enforcement by secured creditors of claims over real property.
Page  14
8.
No later than July 1, 2001, the Borrower shall undertake a study, with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the preparation of a 
strategy and specific action plan for the introduction of a fiscal cadastre, including 
a system for the introduction of property valuation in the cadastral information 
system, and shall furnish such study to the Association not later than September 1, 
2001.
9.
Except as otherwise agreed with the Association, the Borrower shall ensure that 
fees are charged for registration and cadastral services and measures are taken to 
achieve full cost recovery in accordance with a methodology agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association and set out in the Operating Procedures.
10.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
(including, without limitation, cost recovery measures taken) during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions  shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 800,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
Page  15
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the  Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;  or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  16
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
