Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4866 TU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project) 
 
between 
 
ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 25, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4866 TU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated July 25, 2008, between ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN 
MUNICIPALITY (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II - LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred twenty two million 
one hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($322,150,000) (“Loan”), to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.  
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread. 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the withdrawn Loan Balance 
remains unpaid when due, and such non payment continues for a period of thirty 
(30) days, then the interest paid by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as 
provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey (Guarantor) and the 
Bank has been duly executed and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness 
have been fulfilled. 
 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred and twenty (120) days after 
the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Mayor of the Borrower. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality 
Mehmet Nezihi ozmen Mahallesi 
Kazim Sokak  
Merter 
Istanbul 
Republic of Turkey 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(90 212) 449-44-09 
Page  4
3
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction  
 
and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Istanbul, Republic of Turkey, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY 
 
By: /s/ Mesut Pektas 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) improving its solid 
waste management capacity; and (b) improving its capacity to mitigate earthquakes by 
retrofitting key facilities and infrastructure and upgrading the institutions and their 
procedures to help them respond to emergencies.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
A. 
Improvement in Environmental Management
Provision of support, through financing of works and goods, for: (i) the closure 
of existing unauthorized disposal sites for municipal solid waste (landfills) and 
rehabilitation of creeks; (ii) the strengthening of the institutional capacity of solid waste 
services though preparation of annual business plans on financial and technical 
operations; and (iii) provision of  waste collection equipment.   
 
B. 
 Strengthening of Municipal Services and Infrastructure
Support the C
ity of Istanbul’s preparedness for a potential earthquake, including: 
(i) the preparation of a detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems; (ii) the 
development of a municipal infrastructure risk mitigation plan; (iii) retrofitting of 
selected municipal infrastructure such as under-passes, pipelines and viaducts; and (iv) 
provision of emergency  equipment to a fire department. 
 
C. 
Pilot Urban Transformation Program
Provision of assistance to reduce public vulnerability to seismic risk and improve 
the overall quality of life in the metropolitan area, through the financing of: (i) pilot urban 
transformation feasibility studies; and (ii) selected priority investments for retrofitting 
and construction of priority buildings, fire stations and emergency housing
 
related to 
urban transformation in the most seismic vulnerable areas. 
 
D. 
Project Management and Audits
Provision of support for the implementation of the Project, through the financing 
of design studies, surveys, technical training and audits for Project accounts. 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall assign the primary responsibility for project implementation 
to its Finance Department which shall closely cooperate with other relevant departments 
of the Borrower and with sufficient and suitable human, financial and technical resources. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall maintain the Operational Manual throughout the Project and 
shall duly perform all its obligations under the Operational Manual and shall not assign, 
amend abrogate or waive the Operational Manual without the agreement of the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall implement Project activities in accordance with the EMP and 
shall include adequate information on the carrying out of the EMP in the progress reports 
referred to in paragraph A.1 of Section II of this Schedule.  
 
4. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall obta
in the Bank’s no-objection for each investment 
under Part C (ii) of the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall ensure that each investment to be supported under Part C 
(ii) of the Project shall be selected, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank set forth in the Operational Manual, to: 
 
(i) 
be technically feasible, economically, financially viable and 
environmentally beneficial and supported by an operational 
improvement plan; 
 
(ii) 
support investments that will be managed by the Borrower or 
one of its utilities after the completion of the investment; 
 
(iii) 
be located in the most seismic vulnerable areas; 
 
(iv) 
be in compliance with environmental review and land acquisition 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, Environmental 
Policy Framework and Land Acquisition and Resettlement 
Policy Framework and shall not require physical resettlement of 
people; 
 
(v) 
ensure that for investments which require an environmental 
mitigation/management plan, the Borrower shall carry out such 
environmental mitigation/management plan in a timely manner, 
requiring such environmental mitigation plan to be in 
Page  7
6
compliance with: (aa) Environmental Policy Framework; and 
(bb) the applicable laws and regulations of the Guarantor relating 
to health, safety, environmental protection and cultural property, 
and shall include adequate information on the carrying out of 
such environmental mitigation/management plans in the progress 
reports referred to in paragraph A.1 of Section II of this 
Schedule; and  
 
(vi) 
not affect adversely the quality and quantity of water flow and 
include only rehabilitation works of ongoing schemes for 
investments located on trans-boundary waters. 
 
(c) 
The Bank and the Borrower shall agree on specific locations of creeks to 
be rehabilitated under Part A (i) of the Project and the Borrower shall ensure that 
rehabilitation of selected creeks shall be carried out in compliance with the 
Environmental Policy Framework, including preparation of adequate environmental 
mitigation/management plans prior to rehabilitation of creeks, and shall not affect 
adversely the quality or quantity of trans-boundary waters. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than forty five days (45) after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report, 
not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Page  8
7
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
(6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods (Including Supply and Installation) and Works.  
 All goods and works 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the 
Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Method of Procurement of Goods  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Works and goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Limited International Bidding 
 
(b)  
National Competitive Bidding, subject to the additional provisions set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule 2 
 
(c)  
Shopping 
 
(d)     Direct Contracting 
 
Page  9
8
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a) 
Least Cost Selection  
 
(b) 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
 
(c)    
Single Source Selection 
 
(d)   
Individual Consultants  
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions included in the Disbursement 
Letter, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
Page  10
9
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(Expressed in Dollars) 
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1) Works 
 
 
279,194,625 
 100% 
 
(2) Goods 
 
42,000,000 100% 
 
(3) Consultants 
Services  
150,000 100% 
 
(4) 
Front-end Fee 
 
 
805,375  
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of this 
Agreement in accordance 
with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
322,150,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal 
shall be made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  11
10
Annex to 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Mandatory Provisions for Procurement under Bank-Financed Contracts 
Subject to National Competitive Bidding
 
The Borrower shall use the Bank’s Europe and Central Asia Region National 
Competitive Bidding documents template for works and goods and apply the following 
provisions in the carrying out of National Competitive Bidding procedures under the 
Project: 
 
A. Eligibility
Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders.  No restriction shall be 
applied to foreign bidders who wish to submit a bid. 
 
B. Procedures
Invitations to bid shall be advertised in the Official Gazette and in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper or in an electronic portal of free access 
allowing a minimum of thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
 
C. 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
In the procurement of goods and works, where pre-qualification is not used, the 
qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed 
by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and which shall be 
determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not through use of a merit point system. 
 
D. 
Participation by Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises in the Republic of Turkey shall be eligible to 
participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and financially 
autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a dependent agency of the 
Government.  Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bid and performance security 
requirements as other bidders. 
 
E. 
Participation by Joint Ventures
Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such joint 
venture partners will be jointly and severally liable under the Contract. 
Page  12
11
F. Bidding 
Documents
Procuring entities shall use the Bank’s sample National Competitive Bidding 
documents for Europe and Central Asia Region for works and goods and shall draft 
contract and conditions of contract acceptable to the Bank. 
 
G. Bid 
Evaluation
(a) 
Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily 
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point system shall not 
be used. 
 
(b) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 
thirty (30) days.  No further extensions should be requested without the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
 
(c) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted the 
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
 
(d)   
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 
H.   
Price Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (i.e. more than eighteen (18) months) shall 
contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
 
I. 
Rejection of All Bids
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank’s prior 
written concurrence. 
 
J. Contracts
All contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by authorized signatories of 
the Purchaser and the Supplier and shall contain identical terms and conditions of 
contract to those included in the tender documents.  
 
K.  
Securities
Bid Securities should not exceed three percent (3%) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; Performance Securities not more than ten percent (10%).  No advance payments 
shall be made to the Suppliers without a suitable Advance Payment security.  The 
wording of all such securities shall be included in the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  13
12
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Principal Payment Date
Principal Amount of the Loan Payable 
(Expressed in Dollars
*
)
On each January 15 and July 15 
 
beginning January 15, 2013 
 
through January 15, 2022 
 
On July 15, 2022 
 
16,110,000 
 
16,060,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 3.10 of the General Conditions. 
Page  14
13
APPENDIX 
 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
3. 
“Disbursement Letter” means the letter dated as of the same date of this 
Agreement, including the additional instructions as referred to in Section IV.A.1 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as may be revised from time to time. 
4. 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan for Part A of the Project, 
dated January 31, 2006, and approved by the Bank, describing the environmental 
issues, mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures for Part A of the 
Project. 
5. 
“Environmental Policy Framework” means the framework, approved by the 
Bank, describing the environmental issues, mitigation, monitoring and 
institutional measures for carrying out of Parts B, C and D of the Project 
activities. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005, with 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
7. 
“Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework” means the framework, 
approved by the Bank, which sets forth policies and procedures to be followed by 
the Borrower in case of land acquisition for carrying out of Project activities. 
8. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual dated June 1, 2007, setting out the 
operational and administrative procedures in respect of the preparation, approval, 
processing, financing, implementation and supervision of investments and 
activities supported under the Project, including the environmental and land 
acquisition frameworks. 
9. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
10. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 17, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows: 
Page  15
14
 
1. 
Section  3.01 shall read as follows: 
“Section 3.01. 
Front-end Fee.  
The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end 
fee on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “Front-end 
Fee”).” 
2. 
A new paragraph (d) is included in Section 3.02 
Interest 
which shall read 
as follows: 
“(d)  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay the Default 
Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate specified in the Loan 
Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be applicable pursuant to Article IV as a 
result of a Conversion) until such overdue amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default 
Interest Rate shall accrue from the first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be 
payable semi-annually in arrears on each Payment Date.” 
3.  
Appendix  “Definitions” is amended as follows: 
(a) 
Paragraph 19 “Commitment Charge”
is deleted, and subsequent 
paragraphs are re-numbered accordingly. 
(b) 
New paragraphs 27, 28, 29 and 30 are added to the Appendix
:
“27. 
“Default Interest Period” means for any overdue amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance, each Interest Period during which such overdue amount 
remains unpaid; provided, however, that the first such Default Interest Period shall 
commence on the 31
st
 day following the date on which such amount becomes overdue, 
and the final such Default Interest Period shall end on the date at which such amount is 
fully paid.” 
28. 
“Default Interest Rate” means for any Default Interest Period: 
(a) 
in the case of a Variable Spread Loan:  Default LIBOR plus the 
Variable Spread plus one half of one percent (0.5%);  
(b) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default 
Interest Rate applies was payable at a Variable Rate immediately 
prior to the application of the Default Interest Rate:  the Default 
Variable Rate plus one half of one percent (0.5%); and 
(c) 
in the case of a Fixed Spread Loan for which interest on the 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to which the Default Interest Rate 
Page  16
15
applies was payable at a Fixed Rate immediately prior to the application of the 
Default Interest Rate:  Default LIBOR plus the Fixed Spread plus one half of one 
percent (0.5%).” 
29. 
“Default LIBOR” means LIBOR for the relevant Interest Period; it being 
understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default LIBOR shall be equal to 
LIBOR for the Interest Period in which the amount referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 
3.02 first becomes overdue. 
30. 
“Default Variable Rate” means the Variable Rate for the relevant Interest 
Period; it being understood that for the initial Default Interest Period, Default Variable 
Rate shall be equal to the Variable Rate for the Interest Period in which the amount 
referred to in paragraph (d) of Section 3.02 first becomes overdue.” 
(c) 
Paragraph 43 “Fixed Spread
”
(as re-numbered) is amended to read as 
follows: 
“43. 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread for the initial Loan 
Currency in effect at 12:0 1 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the 
date of the Loan Agreement; provided, that upon a Currency Conversion of all or any 
amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, such fixed spread shall be adjusted on the 
Execution Date in the manner specified in the Conversion Guidelines; and provided 
further that notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the Default 
Interest Rate applicable to an amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest 
is payable at a Fixed Rate, the “Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 
12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount.” 
(d) 
Paragraph 66 “Loan Payment” (as re-numbered)
is amended to read as 
follows: 
“66. 
“Loan Payment” means any amount payable by the Loan Parties to the 
Bank pursuant to the Legal Agreements or these General Conditions, including (but not 
limited to) any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance, interest, the Front-end Fee, 
interest at the Default Interest Rate (if any), any prepayment premium, any transaction 
fee for a Conversion or early termination of a Conversion, any premium payable upon the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar, and any Unwinding 
Amount payable by the Borrower.” 
Page  17
16
(e) 
Paragraph 71 “Payment Date” (as re-numbered)
is amended to read as 
follows: 
“71. 
“Payment Date” means each date specified in the Loan Agreement 
occurring on or after the date of the Loan Agreement on which interest is payable.”
 
