                                          Document o f
                                      The World Bank
                              FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo: 38764-TR




                           PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                         INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$322.15MILLION

                  TO THE ISTANBUL METROPOLITANMUNICIPALITY

               WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                            FORAN

                 ISTANBUL MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                         JUNE 7,2007




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
Turkey CountryUnit
Europeand CentralAsia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange Rate Effective June 7,2007)
                               Currency Unit = New Turkish Lira
                                    YTL 1.00 = US$0.71
                                     US$l.OO      = YTL 1.40

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1       - December31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
M O M   Istanbul Disaster ManagementCenter
AYM     Istanbul Province Disaster ManagementCenter
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DA      DesignatedAccount
DM      District Municipality
EA      Environmental Assessment
ECA     Europe and Central Asia Region
EDCD    General Directorate of Civil Defense
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB     European Investment Bank
EMM     EarthquakeMitigation Measure
EMP     EnvironmentalManagementPlan
EU      EuropeanUnion
F I     Financial Intermediary
FMR     Financial MonitoringReport
FMS     Financial ManagementSpecialist
FOD     Financial Operations Department
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GIS     GeographicInformation System
IAD     Internal Audit Department
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results
IER     IndependentEvaluation Report
IMIP    Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project
IMM     Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality
IPCU    Istanbul Project Coordination Unit
ISMEP   Istanbul Seismic MitigationProject
ISPA    Istanbul Special Provincial Administration
ISTAC   Istanbul Solid Waste ManagementUtility
IUFR    Interim un-audited financial reports
JBIC    JapanBank for InternationalCooperation
JICA    JapanInternational Cooperation Agency
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MAG     Neighborhood Disaster Support
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-governmental organization
OECD    Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
PES     Project financial statement
PFMC    Public Financial Managementand Control
SDC     Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
SPO     State PlanningOrganization
TCA     Turkish Court of Accounts
TEMAD   Turkey Emergency ManagementGeneral Directorate



                               Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                Country ManagedDirector:            Ulrich Zachau
                              Sector Manager:       Sumter Lee Travers
                          Task Team Leader:         Seema Manghee

                                                    TURKEY                 FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                            ISTANBULMUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT

                                      PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                         EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                                                     ECSSD

        Date: June 7, 2007                               Team Leader: Seema Manghee
        Country Director: UlrichZachau                   Sectors: Solid waste management (45%);
        Sector ManagedDirector: Sumter Lee Travers       General transportation sector (20%); General
                                                         water, sanitation and flood protection sector
                                                         (20%); Sub-national government
                                                         administration (15%)
                                                         Themes: Other urban development (P)
        Project ID: P100383                              Environmentalscreening category: Financial
                                                         Intermediary Assessment
        Lending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan
                                             Project FinancingData
        [XI Loan     [ 3 Credit    [ 3 Grant  [ 3 Guarantee    [ ] Other:




                            Source                       Local            Foreign             Total
        Borrower                                            14.15              0.00             14.15
        InternationalBank for Reconstructionand            216.00           106.15            322.15
        Development
        Total:                                             230.15           106.15            336.30

        Borrower:
        Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality
        Turkey

        ResponsibleAgency:
        Financial and Technical Department
        Metropolitan Municipality of Istanbul
        Istanbul
        Turkey
        tibet.tuncel@ibb.gov. tr




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

 FY         2008     2009     2010   2011    2012
 Annual     42.00    85.00   100.00  60.00    35.15
 Cumulative 42.00   127.00   227.00 287.00  322.15




1Environmentaland Financial Management Covenants.

                                                      CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                           Page

A.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                               ........................................................    1
  1.  Country and sector issues...........................................................................................                    1
 2.   Rationale for Bank involvement ................................................................................                         2
 3 .  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes...........................................                                     3

B.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                        ........................................................................................      3
 1.   Lendinginstrument....................................................................................................                   3
 2.   Program objective and Phases....................................................................................                        3
 3.   Project development objective and key indicators.....................................................                                   3
 4.   Project components ...................................................................................................                 -4
 5.   Lessons learned and reflected inthe Project design...................................................                                   5
 6.   Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .....................................................                                5

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                    .................................................................................................      6
 1.   Partnership arrangements (if applicable) ...................................................................                           6
 2.   Implementation.......................................................................................................... 6
 3 .  Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) o f outcomeshesults ............................................                                       7
 4.   Sustainability..............................................................................................................           7
 5.   Critical risks and possible controversial aspects........................................................                              8
 6.   Loan Conditions and Covenants ...............................................................................                          -9

D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                       ...........................................................................................      9
 1.   Economic and financial analyses ...............................................................................                        9
 2.  Technical .................................................................................................................. 11
 3.  Fiduciary ..................................................................................................................           12
 4.   Social....................................................................... :................................................       12
 5.  Environment.............................................................................................................               14
 6.   Safeguard policies ....................................................................................................               16
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness.............................................................................                           17

Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                        ................................................    18

Annex 2: RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                      .................... 27

Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring                            ................................................................     28

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description                 .............................................................................      31

Annex 5: Project Costs     .......................................................................................................       35

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                       ........................................................................      36

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                                  ............................ 39

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements                     .............................................................................      48

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                       ....................................................................      55

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues               ...................................................................................      63

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                           ............................................................     99

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                    .......................................................................       100

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                      ...................................................................        101

Annex 14: Country at a Glance             ......................................................................................        104

Annex 15: Map  .................................................................................................................        107

A.       STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

1.      Istanbul, whose 2006 population i s estimated at about 12.5 million, i s the largest
city in Turkey and its main center o f industrial, financial, service and other economic
activities. Administratively, it i s both a metropolitanmunicipality and a State province and
among the provinces it is the one that makes by far the single largest contribution (23%) to
Turkey's Gross Domestic Product (GDP).           Having been, over the span o f almost two
millennia, the successive capital o f the Roman, Byzantine, and Ottoman empires it also
holds a treasure o f uniquehistorical and cultural assets o f World Heritage importance.

2.      An extremely rapid six-fold population increase over the past three decades -
largely as a result o f the attraction that Istanbul's expanding labor market exerted on
Turkey's internal migration - has severely taxed the capacity o f the Istanbul Metropolitan
Municipality (IMM) to deal with urban development problems. Decades o f extremely
rapid urban growth have adversely affected the living conditions o f Istanbul's inhabitants
and exacted a high toll from the city's economy and natural environment. Demand for
basic services such as water and sewerage, electricity and natural gas, has grown
explosively. New and often illegal settlements and industrial plants have in many cases
expanded into environmentally fragile areas that should have been protected as natural
resources. Heavy traffic congestion and significant air pollution are major issues in many
areas. Inefficiencies in collection and safe disposal o f solid waste, including industrial
waste, are turning into potential public health hazards. Illegal discharges by ships, port
activities and industries are at the root o f growing pollution o f the waters o f the Bosporus,
the Black Sea and the Sea o f Marmara.

3.       While Istanbul's current problems are already difficult to deal with, even more
daunting are the challenges that lie ahead. According to some forecasts, the city may
double in size over the next 25 years and reach a population o f 20-25 million by the year
2030. Accommodating such a growth, while maintaining and/or improving the living
conditions o f the city's inhabitants, will require a radical departure from past practices o f
urban management and coordination and control o f urban development. It will require,
inter alia, the beginning o f systematic preparation o f long-term investment plans for all
essential municipal services.

4.       Istanbul's problems are exacerbated by its location inone o f the world's most active
earthquake zones adjacent to the North Anatolian fault line, a fault comparable to
California's San Andreas Fault.         Strong earthquakes are a periodic occurrence and
throughout recorded history have struck the city repeatedly, causing severe damage and
loss o f life, As demonstrated by the 1999 Marmara earthquake, whose epicenter was only
60 km from Istanbul, a large proportion o f Turkey's local infrastructure and real estate lack
the necessary structural resistance and are highly vulnerable to earthquakes.            Recent
studies indicate that the retrofitting of existing structures necessary to bring the earthquake
preparedness o f Istanbul to acceptable levels, together with other measures required for
adequate disaster mitigation, could cost up to US$100 billion intoday's prices.

5.      As a State province, Istanbul is administered by a Governor who acts as the
representative o f the State Government.         As a municipality Istanbul is administered
through a two-tier local government system that consists o f the Istanbul Metropolitan
Municipality (IMM) at the top level and 32 District Municipalities (DMs) at the lower
level.   IMM is responsible for management of all citywide municipal services and
infrastructure whereas DMs are primarily in charge o f local matters.           Virtually all
municipal services provided by IMM are delivered through IMM-owned commercial
companies such as, for instance, the Istanbul Solid Waste Utility (ISTAC), which i s
responsible for solid waste disposal. Like all municipalities in Turkey, IMM has limited
decision-making authority in both revenue generation and expenditure management.
However, within the limits set by national legislation IMM has managed to become
financially viable and it is, at this point, the only one o f 16 metropolitan municipalities in
Turkey with a significant borrowing capacity and creditworthiness for external borrowing
recognized by the Government.

6.      The Metropolitan Municipality Law passed on July 23, 2004, expanded the
geographical area o f IMM about three time from 1,830 km2to 5,349 km2.The Law also
requiredIMMto prepare both a Metropolitan Strategic Development Plan (Strategic Plan)
and an Environmental Plan to reflect the demands o f the expanded area, identify the
corresponding investment needs, and explore possible sources o f financing. The Strategic
and Environmental Plans were completed in July, 2006 and have been approved by the
Municipal Council o f IMM.

7.      To address its multiple needs and prepare for future challenges, IMMhas requested
the World Bank to assist it in the financing of a first investment program, the proposed
Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project (IMIP).       The program, IMIP, which could be
followed by other operations in the future, would focus in particular on priority
investmentsin the area o f environmental management and help increase the preparedness
o f Istanbul for possible futurenatural disasters, especially earthquakes.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

8.      On November 6, 2003, the World Bank's Board o f Directors discussed the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Turkey (Report No. 26756 TU) which pursues four major
objectives: (i)supporting sound macroeconomic management and governance; (ii)
promoting equitable human and social development; (iii)creating a more attractive
business climate; and (iv) strengthening environmental management and disaster
preparedness and mitigation capacity. The CAS Progress Report for Turkey (Report No.
33995 TU, dated November 8, 2005) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 30,2005.

9.      The proposed IMIP supports these CAS objectives by focusing on: (i)critical
environmental problems by upgrading solid waste disposal facilities and safe disposal o f
waste; and (ii)strengthening disaster mitigation by improving key infrastructure and
infrastructure services whose continuing operation will be critical in the event o f an
earthquake.




                                                2

10.      IMIP follows up on the Municipal Services Project (P081880), approved on May
27, 2005, which supports sustainable infrastructure investments in selected medium- and
small-size municipalities. IMIP will complement the Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation
Project - (ISMEP) which was also approved on May 27, 2005, and focuses on earthquake
retrofitting measures on areas that are under the responsibility of Istanbul Province while
IMIP will focus on areas that are under the responsibility o f IMM.

3. Higher levelobjectivesto which the project contributes

11.      IMIP i s fully consistent with Turkey's Ninth National Development Plan (2007-
201l),   which calls for more strategic policy formulation and stronger implementation
capacity in public administration. The Plan states that comprehensive reforms started in
public administration and public financial management should focus on strengthening
public confidence in administration, ensuring financial efficiency and the provision of
effective municipal services by local governments.


B.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1.      Lendinginstrument

12.     The proposed project will be financed through a Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
for which IMM will be the Borrower under a sovereign guarantee provided by the
Republic o f Turkey. The loan will be a Libor-based USD single currency variable spread
loanwith a maturity o f 15 years, including 5 year grace period.

2.      Program objective and Phases

Not applicable.

3.      Project developmentobjectiveand key indicators

13.     The objectives o f the proposed project are to assist the Istanbul Metropolitan
Municipality in: (i)  improving its solid waste management; and (ii)  improving its capacity
to mitigate earthquakes by retrofitting key facilities and infrastructure and upgrading the
institutions and their procedures to helpthemrespond to emergencies.

The corresponding indicators include:

o       The number o f closed illegal waste dumpingsites;
o       Preparation o f annual Business Plans for solid waste services;
o       Preparation o f a Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation Plan;
o       Retrofitting o f investments; and
o       The implementationo f a Pilot UrbanTransformation Program.




                                              3

4. Project components

The IMIP would consist ofthe following four components:

       [mprovements inenvironmental management:
           a. Closure of existing unauthorized disposal sites for municipal solid waste
               (landfills) and rehabilitationo f creeks;
           b. Preparation o f annual Business Plans that include operating performance,
               investmentprogramand financial targets and results; and
           c. Financing waste collection equipment.

       Strengthening o f municipal services and infrastructure:
           a. Preparinga detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems;
           b. Preparing a Municipal InfrastructureRisk Mitigation Plan;
           c. Retrofitting o f municipal infrastructure (under-passes, pipelines, viaducts
               etc.); and
           d. Providing emergency fire department equipment.

       Pilot urban transformation program:
           a. Pilot urbantransformation feasibility studies; and
           b. Retrofitting and constructiono f buildings, fire stations and emergency
               housing associated with urban transformation inthe most seismic
               vulnerable areas.

       Project Management and audits:
           a. Design studies, surveys and technical training for pro]ect implementation;
               and
           b. External audits of project accounts.

       The project cost and financing plan shown in Table 1 is based on the Country
Financing Parameters adopted on January, 2005 which allow for up to 100% financing o f
goods and works, local services and contracts for foreign consultants, including taxes and
duties.

                          Table 1. EstimatedProject Costs and Financing
                                  (in US$million dollar equivalent)
                                                                   Total Cost        World Bank

Component A: Improvement o f Environmental
Management                                                            96.0              96.0
Component B: Strengthening o f Municipal Services and
Infrastructure                                                       126.0             126.0
Component C: Pilot Urban Transformation Program                      100.0             100.0
Component D: Project Management and Audits                           14.15              0.15

Total Project Cost                                                   336.15            322.15



                                               4

5. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design

15.     Implementation. World Bank experience in Turkey and worldwide has shown that
municipal projects implemented directly by the beneficiary municipality or utility often
have more implementation problems than projects implemented by free-standing project
implementation units having higher paid staff. However, for a municipality, utility or
institution borrowing from the Bank, the most critical institutional long-term development
objective i s to strengthen the capacity o f its staff and improve the performance o f its
operations, a goal that cannot be achieved through the use o f free standing project
implementation units. For this reason, IMMproposed, and the Bank concurred, to set up a
project management team within IMM and to manage IMIP, to the maximum extent
feasible, exclusively through IMMstaff.

16.     Earthquake Risk of Istanbul. Given the location o f Istanbul and the existing very
high earthquake risk potential, it is essential for all investments to be designed to ensure
the high level of seismic safety. Minor earthquakes are frequent; the probabilities of a
major earthquake affecting Istanbul inthe next 10-30 years are estimated at about 30-60%,
respectively.

17.     Project Costs. Scope, costs and duration o f retrofitting buildings and infrastructure
are often difficult to determine ex-ante in a reliable fashion.         Such operations are,
therefore, inevitably subject to discovery o f needs for additional works during execution
and ensuingrisks o f cost overruns and implementation delays. For this reason, significant
flexibility must be built into the implementation arrangements and procedures as well as in
the legal agreements. This would provide the project management team from the outset
with the tools necessary to deal expeditiously and effectively with unexpected
circumstances and needs.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

18.     Multi sectoral approach. An option that was considered but not selected consisted
o f a project that would have focused on addressing the needs o f one single infrastructure
sector. This would have allowed tackling sector specific issues in a more in-depthfashion
in terms of investmentpriorities, institutional framework and policies. However, it would
not have squared with the specific objective o f this project, which i s to provide IMMwith
a broader capability to address the area o f environmental protection and public health and,
above all, to protect the 12.5 million inhabitants o f the city from the effects o f a likely
major future earthquake.

19.     Policy-based operation.     Another option that was considered but not selected
consisted o f the preparation o f a policy-based operation that would have allowed IMM to
receive resources equivalent to the loan amount in the form o f budgetary support against
the implementation of an agreed program of institutional and policy reforms. Eventhough
it could have made it easier for IMMto implement an investment program scattered among
a number o f its service companies, this option was not retained primarily because, in
Turkey, the decision-making authority o f local governments in matters o f local fiscal


                                               5

policies and urban management i s still extremely limited. Hence, this would not have
allowed identification o f a meaningful reform program.


C.       IMPLEMENTATION

1.       Partnershiparrangements (if applicable)

20.      At this time, there is no co-financing of the IMIP with other International Financial
Intermediaries (IFIs), international agencies, or bilateral donors at this stage. However,
discussions are well advanced with the OPEC Fund on potential co-financing that will
likely materialize during project implementation for the environmental management
component. Close coordination and information sharing will be sought during project
implementation with other international bodies that also assist Turkish authorities in
improving environmental management, infrastructure natural disaster preparedness and
municipal programs. Inparticular, close coordination i s underway with Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA) and Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), which
are implementing infrastructure programs and providing technical assistance in
strengthening the disaster response capacity o f municipal services. Coordination between
IMM and European Union (EU) already exists to ensure that all project proposals are
consistent with EU policies and regulations as part o f the Acquis Communautaire.
Discussions are ongoing with the European Investment Bank (EIB) on broader issues
related to municipal management and related investment priorities.

2.       Implementation

21.      IMIP will be implemented from 2007 - 2012 under the direct responsibility o f
IMM. The implementationofthe project bythe Borrower will be onthe basis ofthe use of
existing municipal staff according to their relative functions, and there will be no separate
project implementation unit.          The Financial Department will coordinate project
implementation, especially in regard to reporting and communicating with the Bank, but
various other technical specialists will provide support according to their relevant
functions. The Financial Department will be responsible for procurement, disbursement
and financial management, accounting and reporting. Implementation will be undertaken
by existing qualified staff from the Finance Department itself as well as technical experts
from relevant other departments o f IMMand, on an as needed basis, representatives o f the
beneficiary municipal service companies. Technical supervision o f project implementation
and monitoring, evaluation o f project results, and checking o f engineering designs to
ensure that they meet project criteria will be undertaken by the technical staff from IMM.
Possible needs for specific skills and qualifications that might not be available in IMMwill
be satisfied through the temporary employment o f local consultants and/or the procurement
o f international expertise to be financed under the project.

22.      This will be the first Bank project to be undertaken by IMM staff that will be new
to the Bank project implementation procedures, but they should benefit from the
experience o f the ongoing ISMEP project coordinated by the Istanbul Project Coordination
Unit (IPCU) located within the Istanbul Special Provincial Administration (ISPA). The


                                               6

IPCU team was already consulted during the proposed project preparation and expressed
its willingness to assist IMM on any matter related to the implementation.                Such
cooperation i s o f key importance, particularly, for efficiency o f efforts in the area o f
emergency preparedness and management, for both IMM and the provincial government.
A description o f overall implementation arrangements is contained in Annex 6. Specifics
o f the arrangements for procurement and financial management are found in Annexes 7
and 8.

3.      Monitoringand evaluation (M&E) of outcomes/results

23.     The Financial Department will monitor IMIP implementation progress and results
against the agreed outcomes and performance indicators specified in Annex 3.                To
establish the framework for a reliable and objective system o f Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E), baseline data and information on the current conditions of solid waste collection
and disposal and maritime pollution will be collected prior to the start o f project
implementation.

24.     The monitoring indicators will be reflected in quarterly and annual progress reports
to be prepared by the Financial Department.              These progress reports will cover
performance and impact indicators, progress in the implementation o f works and/or
delivery o f goods and services, training and studies, as well as the use o f project resources
under the project. The report for the fourth quarter o f each year will be prepared in the
form o f an annual report that will summarize the entirety o f the results achieved during the
year and provide a work plan and budget for the following year.

25.     A Mid-Term Review (MTR) o f the project will be conducted no later than during
the spring o f 2009, or two years after the start up o f project implementation. The Financial
Department would prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for the MTR.
The MTR will review the actual implementation performance o f each o f the project
components and identify the reasons for possible delays and poorer than anticipated
results, ifany. Any required changes in the investment programs or reallocation o f loan
proceeds would be agreed on at that time.          The World Bank would conduct regular
supervision missions about once every three months, especially during the first two years
o f IMIP implementation. The Financial Department will also help prepare the IMM
contribution to the World Bank's Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) upon
completion o f the project.

4.       Sustainability

26.      IMIP investments for environmental management improvement will be transferred
upon completion to the municipal utility operating the respective services. The utility is
financially viable and have adequate technical and financial resources to efficiently operate
the assets created by IMIP. The earthquake retrofitting o f infrastructure is a one-time
investment and the priorities identified by the Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation
Planwill be subject to a risk audit and cost benefit analysis.




                                               7

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects

IMMas a first time Bank borrower

Risk:         The IMIP will be the first project implementedby IMM with World Bank
              financing. IMM lacks, for the time being, familiarity with World Bank
              requirements and procedures. This creates a risk for processing delays in
              procurement and disbursement.

Mitigation:   IMM staff has already started training in World Bank procurement,
              financial management,      environmental       safeguards and overall Bank
              operations. In addition, IMIP includes a substantial amount o f training for
              IMM staff related to technical, financial, legal and administrative project
              management requirementsin accordance with World Bank procedures. An
              additional mitigation factor i s the fact that key World Bank supervision staff
              i s based in Turkey and can respond readily to requests or inquiries from
              IMM. ISMEP staff is also located in Turkey can assist in overall
              implementation     issues   and     more     importantly, further strengthen
              coordination and information sharing between IMM and the Provincial
              level. Moreover, the team may benefit from the experience and knowledge
              o f the well established IPCU under the ISMEP project. This cooperation
              has been ascertained during project preparation and will be further strongly
              encouraged at implementation stage.

Debtservicing capacity of IMM

Risk:         At this point, IMM has a well established borrowing capacity and its
              creditworthiness i s recognized by the Government as demonstrated by the
              provision o f a sovereign guarantee for IMIP.           However, the current
              favorable conditions cannot preclude the possible deterioration o f the
              financial position o f IMM in the medium or longer term because of
              unforeseeable changes in the macro-economic performance o f Turkey or
              adverse developments in the country's external environment, both o f which
              could create a risk o f IMMdefaulting on its debt service obligations.

Mitigation:   The loan to IMMi s guaranteed by the Republic o f Turkey. IMM has only
              limited financial autonomy and depends for its revenue to a large and
              decisive extent on fiscal transfers from the Government.       Increasing the
              financial autonomy of IMM, and giving it the means to be better exploit the
              local fiscal resource potential and become financially more self-reliant,
              could help mitigate the risk. However, this would entail far-reaching
              reforms in the existing framework o f local government finance in Turkey
              which are outside the scope o f the project.




                                              8

Possible Controversial Aspects

There are no controversial aspects associated with the project.

6.      LoanConditionsand Covenants

Environmental Covenant:

(a)     The Environmental Category o f the project i s a Financial Intermediary (FI). To
        ensure that the project complies with all World Bank environmental safeguards, all
        IMIP sub-projects would be subjected to an environmental review process by IMM
        as described in the Environment Framework. The Borrower has to carry out the
        project activities inaccordance with the EMP.

Financial Management Covenants:

        IMM will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The
        project financial statements will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
        the Bank and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited
        financial statements o f the project will be provided to the Bank within six months
        o f the end o f each fiscal year.

        IMM will maintain records and will ensure appropriate accounting for the funds
        provided. Financial statements for the project will be prepared by IMM. The
        interim un-audited financial reports (IUFR), also referred to as the Financial
        Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be prepared on a quarterly basis and will be
        submittedto the Bank no later than 45 days after the end o fthe quarter.


        APPRAISAL SUMMARY

        Economicand financialanalyses

        The economic analysis undertaken for this project and anticipated for specific
investments that remain to be defined used the approach o f identifying the most
economically efficient means o f achieving a predetermined objective. That was done by
considering alternative designs to meet each project objective and selecting the particular
option for which the sum of the discounted investment, rehabilitation, and operations and
maintenance costs i s the lowest. This stage has been undertaken for all those components
that are already quantified. Least cost analysis will similarly be undertaken for all those
alternative options that have not yet been identified in order to ensure that the project
meets each objective at the least economic cost.         In the case of the environmental
management component, Appendix A contains a detailed description o f the alternatives
and selection criteria.

28.     Although the project relies on the efficiency o f investments, the issue o f economic
benefits was not ignored, For example, in the Environmental Management Component,


                                              9

benefits will include an end to or a high level o f control o f the water, land, and air
pollution associated with wild dumps. However, full valuation o f benefits would require
hydrologic mapping that could not be economically undertaken during project preparation,
given that both Turkish law and accepted international practice call for control o f solid
waste. The value o f benefits comes from a small proportion o f those that can easily be
measured and a large proportion for which only qualitative evaluation i s feasible. The mix
of benefits from a national program that fully complies with EU Acquis requirements i s
documented in the report The Benefits o f Compliance with the Environmental Acquis for
the Candidate Countries'. Inthat report, the annual benefits to Turkey of full compliance
with EUenvironmental standards are calculated to be equivalent to Euro 50 and Euro 233
per capita as the low and high values, respectively. The waste sector would account for
around 2.5% and 12.4% o f the low and high values (Euro 1.2 and Euro 29 per capita),
respectively. The investmentsunder this project will help Turkey move toward that goal.

29.      Components B and C that are designed to meet the second project objective, Le. to
strengthen the municipal services o f IMMand increase its preparedness for expected large
earthquakes by retrofitting key municipal facilities infrastructure and providing the
emergency equipment needed to respond to a major natural disaster. The benefits o f the
earthquake mitigation measures (EMM) are to avoid or mitigate the costs o f earthquake.
Such costs comprise (i)direct earthquake damage; (ii)disruption o f economic activities;
and (iii)  the loss of life and the suffering that earthquakes bring. The investments under
this project comprise a part of a broad, long term program to enhance the protection of the
citizens o f Istanbul from the effects o f an earthquake. Studies have been completed that
assess the potential damage, by type o f impact, under different earthquake scenarios.
Those studies also suggest mitigation measures, from which the current investmentshave
beendrawn. Effectively reducing damage and economic disruption has a very high value -
upto about US$1.8 billiononce a full protectionprogram is implemented. Reduced loss of
life and injury would, o f course, substantially raise these values.            Annex 9 discusses
existing studies from which this investment program has been drawn.

FinancialAnalysis

30.      A summary o f IMM's revenue and expenditure accounts for 2003-2005 and
projections for 2006-2008 i s shown in Annex 9. Budgetary resources o f IMMare derived
from three different sources: tax revenue, non- tax revenue, and borrowing.

3 1.     In2005, revenues o f IMMwere YTL 2,559 million (US$1,949 million equivalent
at the prevailing exchange rate) and expenditures YTL 2,712 million (US$ 2,009 million),
a 3% deficit for that year. Tax revenue representedabout 78% o f total revenue, non-tax
revenue about 17%, and the remaining 5% borrowing from the domestic capital market.
About 98% o f the tax revenue was provided by IMM's share o f Government taxes in
accordance with current local finance legislation and the remaining 2% was derived from
municipal own-source taxes. Between 2003 and 2005, IMM'stotal revenue increased by
about 142%. This growth was caused by a rapid increase inthe amount o f Government tax


' Ecotec etal, 2001, downloadable at http://ec.europa.eu/environment/enlarg/pdf~ene~t~long.pdf


                                                   10

transfers, whereas IMM's own-source revenue stagnated.               As a result the latter's
contribution to total revenue fell from 41% in2003 to 19% in 2005.

32.     In 2005, about 25% of IMM's expenditures were on operating municipal
administration services, 20% was transferred to district municipalities and municipal
commercial companies, 50% was expended on capital investments and 8% on debt service.
Personnel costs representedonly about 11%o f total expenditure.

33.     For the time being, IMM operates a mixed cash and accrual accounting system.
The Law on Public Administration o f 2004 mandates municipalities to gradually introduce
fullaccrual accountingand long-termbudgeting. Accordingly, IMMplans to switch to full
accrual accounting by the end o f 2007.          Although this should lead to significant
improvements in financial controls, further improvement o f IMM'sfinancial management
system will be needed to establish a good internal control system for an organization with
an annual budget o f over US$ 2 billion equivalent.

34.     As shown above, a critical issue is that for its financial resources IMMdepends to a
large and increasing degree on the transfer o f a share of taxes by the Government.
Moreover, even for its own-source revenue it has virtually no decision-making authority in
matters o f rates, assessment bases, etc. However, the potentially negative effects o f such
lack o f authority are mitigated by the fact that Turkey's intergovernmental fiscal transfers
are formula driven and their rates fixed by law. They are therefore not subject to annual
appropriations by Parliament or ministerial decisions and offer, within limits, a reasonable
degree o fpredictability and stability.

35.     IMM projections for 2006-2008 show a modest increase in revenue of about 6%
per annum and a similar increase inoperating expenses. However, a substantial increase in
borrowing, particularly in 2007 and 2008, o f over US$ 500 million i s projected to meet
increased investmentrequirements.

2.      Technical

36.     Achieving improvement in IMM's environmental management, especially in the
area o f solid waste collection and disposal increasing its preparedness in the event of a
possible earthquake by ensuringthe functioning o f key infrastructure facilities and services
entails the selection o f investments that are technically sound and cost effective, and keep
operating and maintenance costs as low as possible. In keeping with these criteria, the
investments selected for IMIP represent least cost alternatives. Concurrently, IMM has
paid special attention to ensure that all selected investments are designed to meet the
highest technical standards, and are in compliance with applicable Turkish and EU
environmental standards and regulations.

37.     An investment program covering a first phase o f 18 months of IMIP
implementation was prepared and incorporated inthe Procurement Plan. While the first 18
months o f investments to be financed under IMIP have been identified, for those
contemplated for the later years o f the project implementation period will be identified
after the completion o f the Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation Plan and necessary



                                               11

technical studies that will be carried out after start o f implementation. In addition, the
tender documents for the goods to be financed under Component B are close to completion
and will be ready to procure after the completion o f negotiations.

3,      Fiduciary

38.     A procurement capacity assessment was completed inOctober 2006 to evaluate the
capacity o f IMM and the Financial Department staff to manage project procurement in
accordance with World Bank rules and guidelines. Risks were identified and an action plan
was agreed on. Necessary mitigation measures, including training, will be taken by IMM
and the Financial Department and closely monitored as part o f project supervision.

39.     An assessment o f the financial management arrangements for the project is
undertaken in October 2006 and updated in March 2007. Current financial management
arrangements for the project are satisfactory to the Bank. IMMhas finalized the budgeting
requirements for the project and has already prepared the draft financial management
manual for the project.

40.     The overall financial management risk for the project is substantial before
mitigation measures and with adequate mitigation measures agreed, the financial
management residual risk is rated moderate.

4.      Social

41.     The 1999 Marmara Earthquake was a major awakening event for the government
and people o f Istanbul.     The Provincial and IMM administrations realized that their
emergency plans, infrastructure and measures to protect the population needed significant
improvement. Meanwhile, public concern for individual and collective vulnerability grew,
as well as increased awareness o f a range o f environmental issues. The Province and IMM
have taken major steps to assess vulnerabilities and prepare mitigation and preparedness
plans, but few results o f this huge effort are evident to the public. The ISMEP Project i s
helping the Province reduce seismic risks in areas o f its authority - schools, hospitals and
public security. IMM, in turn, will help IMM deal with both seismic and environmental
risks. This project addresses issues that are considered high priority by the both the
Provincial and Municipal Governments and the citizens o f Istanbul, the mitigation of
earthquake risks, reduction o f environmental pollution, provision o f public services and
improving the quality o f life. The project will invest directly in improving and managing
sanitary landfills by closing "wild" landfills and illegal dump sites and improve
management o f shipping wastes. Other components will assess the earthquake resiliency
of municipal infrastructure and utilities, plan mitigation measures and retrofit municipal
structures; support urban transformation by funding feasibility studies, participatory
planning exercises and complementary infrastructure investments; and strengthen technical
designs, tenderingprocedures and financial management.

42.     When the territory o f IMM expanded to cover the whole Province in 2004, IMM
inherited landfills that had been operated by various independent municipalities, some o f
which were "wild dumps." Originally, the dumps were established in rural areas, but a few



                                              12

have been absorbed by westward urban sprawl and the continued development o f tourism
facilities west o f the old city. All o f the sites will be closed, and some will be removed and
transferred to larger sites. A Penal Code has been passed which requires all municipalities
and Mayors to be fined for environmental degradation, specifically non-clean up o f illegal
waste sites intheir jurisdiction.

43.      The investments in solid waste management will be well received by the public. In
a study prepared by the IMM Metropolitan Planning Office entitled Housing and Quality
o f Life in Residential Areas, "91 percent said that solid waste storage was an important or
very important problem." Very few o f the wild dump sites have neighbors within a half a
kilometer. People living near the other sites will welcome the improvements. All o f the
work will take place on land owned and used by the IMM.

44.      Earthquake risk mitigation i s a common area o f concern throughout Istanbul, and
the IMM and some district municipalities have taken steps to address the issue. Some
examples are the Earthquake Management Master Plan (2004) recently prepared by the
IMM;inventories of buildingsat risk that were undertaken by the district municipalities of
Zeytinburnu and Bakirkoy; and the microzonation study funded by JICA. Much remains
to be done, however, and much i s being planned. One key element inplanning i s to ensure
that utilities and infrastructure can withstand an earthquake.           The project will fund a
seismic resiliency study and the preparation o f a mitigation plan based on the study, and
will retrofit critical municipal facilities. Theses investments are critical, but, their ability
encourage citizens to take active measures to protect themselves will be greatly enhanced
ifthey are integrated inthe IMM'spublic information andpublic awareness initiatives.

45.      The IMM's Strategic Development Plan i s currently being articulated on a micro
level. Two major objectives o f the plan are to reduce seismic vulnerability and improve
the quality o f life in the city. On a micro level, the focus i s on "urban transformation," a
multi-faceted concept that encompasses both seismic risk mitigation and improving the
quality o f life. The objectives are to create new green spaces and improve existing public
spaces, such as waterfronts and parks, upgrade infrastructure to improve the level o f
services and increase access in case o f emergency and to replace poor quality, crowded
housing in areas o f particular seismic sensitivity with stronger housing, improved
commerce and open spaces.          The IMM wants the private sector to take the lead in
transforming housing and commercial blocks, while the municipality deals with public
areas and infrastructure. The IMM i s developing four principal pilot projects in different
parts o f the city. Designs are underway, but they will need to be supported by additional
acceptability studies, feasibility studies, and participatory planning exercises before they
can be implemented.         Meanwhile, the IMM can prepare and implement projects that
improve and expand public spaces and public facilities. The project will fund preparatory
studies and public works that complement the pilot projects, as well as other highpriority
public facilities.

46.      The key social issues of the project are equal access to public services and public
safety. Some project impacts will be significant, but not necessarily obvious to most
citizens except in emergency situations, but the perception that positive steps are being




                                                   13

taken to address the issues i s important to building public confidence. Support to urban
transformation will be more visible, although the impact will be more localized.

47.      Three different groups have major stakes in the project. First, public officials,
including both elected representatives and the staff o f public utility companies, are primary
stakeholders. In their official capacities, and through advisors, they have defined project
components and will be responsible for implementing them. The success of these project
components depends on their ability to implement the project efficiently and effectively, as
well as their ability to increase public awareness and stimulate public ownership.

48.      The second group o f stakeholders i s organized civil society. Istanbul has a large
group o f citizens with strong concern for their city. The concerns range from historic
preservation, disaster mitigation and management, to public participation, political
mobilization and construction and development. Some people manifest their commitment
to the city in individual capacities, such as academics, technical specialists and land
developers. Others work through one or more o f the thousands o f non-govermental NGOs
(NGOs) in the city. Some NGOs are issue-focused, some provide services and charitable
functions, and others advocate political or ideological positions. They range in size from
one-person operations to large associations; some raise funds and others use their own
resources to carry out their work. Two sets o f NGOs have a special stake in the project:
first, the groups concerned with historical preservation, environmental protection, urban
planning and development; and second, those who focus on disaster prevention or
management, including public awareness and public mobilization. IMM seeks the advice
and/or support o f specific NGOs in each set, but most disaster or preservatioddevelopment
NGOs feel that opportunities to exercise their valuable skills, capabilities and ideas in
decision-making and community action are too limited to enable them to have a significant
voice. The project will offer opportunities for increased consultation between government
and civil society on a range o f issues.

49.      The third group of stakeholders consists o f all the other inhabitants o f Istanbul - the
general public. They need properly functioning public services to enable them to live and
work in the city. These 12.5 million stakeholders are the real target population of the
project.

50.     The concerns and perceptions o f the third set o f stakeholders were the subject o f the
"Housing and Quality o f Life in Residential Areas" mentioned above. The study was
patterned after similar studies conducted in cities in the United States and other countries.
The valuable data collected in the study are being analyzed. The analysis has already
yielded valuable insights regardingthe opportunities, attitudes and physical environment of
citizens throughout the IMM. This work established a baseline to monitor project
investments, and will be useful for preparing and monitoring other investments as well.

5.      Environment

51,     To ensure that the project complies with all World Bank environmental safeguards,
all IMIP sub-projects would be subjected to an environmental review process by IMM as
described in the Framework document presented in Annex 10. For the sub projects to be



                                              14

defined during project implementation, the Bank will verify during supervision that IMM
also follows the Framework procedures for environmental review. As noted below,
however, sub projects that are or could be rated as category A require ex-ante review and
clearance by the Bank.

52.      The Environmental Category o f the project is FI. The Environmental Category FI
rating i s based on the fact that the investments under the project cannot be assigned a
single environmental category. In addition, some anticipated investments have not yet
been identified. In that case, the FI provides the flexibility to IMM to finance an
Environmental Category A investment should that be necessary, subject to following the
necessary safeguards.

53.      The Environmental Assessment for the Environmental Management component of
the project to clean up 28 illegal waste sites was undertaken inthe manner described inthe
Environmental Framework. The Environmental Assessment was disclosed in country on
February 5, 2007.

54.      The environmental assessment process is carried out to evaluate potential positive
or negative impacts o f any proposed sub-project; to evaluate measures that must be taken
to prevent or minimize potential negative impacts damaging to the human and natural
environment (for example by site selection or mitigating measures at a given site); and for
supervisiodinspection o f sub-project implementation.

55.      The Turkish environmental impact assessment regulation classifies projects by
environmental risk in a manner similar to World Bank Environmental Assessment (EA)
policy (OP 4.01). Some cases may arise, however, where the resultant environmental risk
assignment may differ from that o f the World Bank. Inthat limited number o f cases IMM
should seek additional information or agree to undertake additional measures as a
condition o f using loan funds. The seven key elements involved inthe EA process are: (i)
screening, (ii)EA documentation, (iii)      public consultation, (iv) review and approval, (v)
disclosure, (vi) conditionality and (vii) supervision and reporting. The procedures and
institutional responsibilities are all delineated inthe Framework presentedinAnnex 10.

56.      For cultural property issues, IMM i s responsible for application o f Turkish laws
and regulations. There are two possibilities: (i)  a subproject located in a "designated" area
with known artifacts or structures o f cultural interest, and (ii) subproject is carried out in
                                                                  a
a non-designated area, and encounters a chance find during construction.

57.      A constructionpermit is issued only after it has beendetermined whether or not the
site i s one that i s "designated" as an area o f cultural significance.     For projects in a
"designated" area, an approval from the regional council with jurisdiction over that area i s
needed before a construction permit i s issued.             A regional council consists of
representatives from the Ministry o f Culture and Tourism, academia, IMM one from the
District Municipality, and other members depending on the related subjects representing
those agencies., and each council has identified certain "designated" areas within its'
jurisdiction that are culturally significant. The Ministry o f Culture and Tourism will bring
inspecial workers to perform the necessaryactivities inthe designated area.



                                                15

 58.       If the project is not in a designated area, no approval from a regional council is
 necessary. If by chance, an historical article i s found during construction, the Ministry of
 Culture and Tourism i s informed and sends and expert to provide direction on how to
 proceed with the activity.

 59.       The subproject-specific Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be required
 to include appropriate obligations inboth mitigation and monitoring plans for construction
 either in a "designated area" or to address chance find events. These requirements are
 elaborated in greater detail inAnnex 10.

 6.        Safeguard policies

Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                            Yes                   No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                                 [XI                    [I
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                          11                   [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                              [I                   [XI
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                                 [XI                    11
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                 [XI                    [I
Indigenous Peoples (OPIBP 4.10)                                                        [I                   1x1
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   11                   [XI
Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                           11                   [XI
Projects inDisputedAreas (OPIBP 7.60)*                                                 11                   [XI
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                       [I                   [XI


 60.       The project is expected to take place on public land or within existing rights of
 way. None o f these activities i s likely to entail any land acquisition, relocation o f
 population, or result in restricting the access of individuals or communities to economic
 resources. Given the dynamic situation in the IMM, the results o f plans or studies
 underway or to be undertaken, however, it i s possible that the Municipality will request
 support for an investment that will require private land to be acquired or public land to be
 cleared. To enable the project to respond quickly and positively to such an eventuality, the
 IMM has prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework satisfactory to the Bank that will
 ensure compliance with OP 4.12, and hence the safeguard i s triggered as a precautionary
 measure. In addition prior review o f all proposed urban transformation investments under
 Component C will be undertaken.

 61.       Cultural Property (World Bank OP 11-03). For cultural property issues, IMM i s
 responsible for application o f Turkish laws and regulations. There are three possibilities:
 (i)asubprojectlocatedina"designated" areawithknownartifactsorstructuresofcultural
 interest, (ii) works are carried out on a structure with cultural significance not located
                civil
 in a designated areas, and (iii)a subproject is carried out in a non-designated area, and
 encounters a chance find during construction.



 * By supportingtheproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims
 on the disputedareas


                                                         16

7.    Policy Exceptions and Readiness

      The project does not require any exceptions from Bank policies. The project meets
the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation.




                                             17

                  Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground

Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality

Urban growth.
1.       At the time of the proclamation of the Turkish Republic in 1923, the City of
Istanbulhad a population of less than 1 million. Its growth remained relatively moderate
until the 1970s when it reached about 2 million. Since then accelerated economic
development, which fueled strong internal migration especially from the Eastern regions o f
Turkey, led to a rapid expansion o f both population and built-uparea. By the end o f 2005,
the city was estimated to have reached apopulation of at least 12 million on a territory that
covers 5,343 h2.      Less than 60% o f this i s available for urban development and the
remainder consists o f protected natural spaces.        Currently, about twolthirds o f the
population (8 million) live on the European side and one third (4 million) across the
Bosporus on the Anatolian side.

2.       According to conservative projections o f the IMM Metropolitan Planning Office,
the population of Istanbul could reach about 18.5 million by 2030. Other sources estimate
population numbers o f 20-25 million for that same date. Regardless o f the final number,
the critical issue the city is confronted with for its future growth is that the geographical
site o f Istanbul cannot absorb more than about 2.5 million additional inhabitants without
either dramatically increasing the - already excessively high - population densities in the
existing built-upareas or expanding into protected natural spaces, or both. The invasion o f
sensitive watershed areas, inparticular, could have dramatic consequences for the future of
Istanbul's supply o f drinkingwater.

Administrative structure.




                                                          IMMMunicipalServiceEnterprises
4.       IMM is responsible for all matters that
affect the city as a whole. It is, in particular,      Water SUPPlY and sewerage          ISKI
responsible for the delivery o f municipal             Solidwaste collectionidisposal   ISTAC
services    as   well as     the financing     and     Urbantransport
                                                           Metro                      ULASIM
maintenance o f all main infrastructures (other            Bus transport                 IETT
than those pertaining to and operated by State             Water transport                ID0
agencies such as interregional highways, power         Natural Gas Distribution        IGDAS
transmission    lines,  etc.).     IMM is     also     Roadmaintenance                 ISFALT
responsible for urban planning and the definition      Traffic management              ISBAK
                                                                                        AGAC
of urban development options and policies.             Trees and parks
                                                       Car parks                      ISPARK




                                             18

5.     Delivery o f municipal services by IMMi s carried out through so-called "municipal
economic enterprises". All o f these enterprises, in which IMMi s the majority shareholder,
operate under the oversight o f the IMM Department o f Economic Enterprises as
commercial companies registered as "Incorporations".             They are managerially and
financially autonomous and are to that extent similar to private enterprises.

Environmental Challenges.
6.     Istanbul's rapid population increase over the past few decades has severely taxed
the capacity of IMM to deal with urban development problems.                   Unplanned and
uncoordinated urban growth have contributed to a downward trend inthe living conditions
o f many o f Istanbul's inhabitants, created severe constraints for the city's economy and
exacted a high toll from its natural environment. New and often illegal settlements and
industrial plants have in many cases expanded into areas that were environmentally fragile
and warranted being protected as natural resources. Air pollution has become a major
issue in many areas. Growing inefficiencies in collection and safe disposal o f solid waste,
especially from industries, are becoming potential public health hazards. Sea pollution
causedby the shipping industry, port activities and other industries, i s at the root o f serious
environmental problems for the waters o f the Bosporus and the Sea o f Marmara.



         CHARACTERIZATION OF THE WASTE IN ISTANBUL        7.     According to IMM, Istanbul
                                                         produces currently about         13,000
                                                         tons o f residential and commercial

                                      Substance (43%)     solid waste per day. Responsibility
                                                         for solid waste collection rests with
                                                         DMs while management of disposal
                                                          i s the responsibility o f ISTAC, a
                                                         municipal     economic       enterprise
                                                         owned by IMM.Inkeeping with this




       Solid waste disposal, including transfer stations and sanitary landfills
e      Medical waste collection and disposal
e      Composting plant


                                                     19

e       Removal o f shippingwastes
e       Cleaning o f main streets
e       Construction debris removal and disposal
e       Methane gas-fired power generation

8.      ISTAC currently operates a total o f six transfer stations (Baruthane, Yenibosna and
Halkali on the European side and Aydinli, Hekimbagi, and Kucukbakkalkoy on the
Anatolian side).    The transfer stations include systems for collection vehicle weighing,
offloading o f solid waste from collection vehicles, and waste compaction into 35 m3waste
containers for transport to the landfills.

9.      There are currently two solid waste sanitary landfills (Odayeri (75 ha) on the
European side o f Istanbul and Komurcuoda (100 ha) on the Anatolian side which were
constructed in 1994.       Both are built with a composite liner system (60 cm clay,
geomembrane, and then drainage layer).         Leachate i s collected and after a four-stage
treatment i s discharged to the city's sewerage system. Two additional advanced leachate
treatment facilities are planned for these landfills. At the Odayeri landfill site, ISTAC also
operates a composting plant for organic waste with a daily capacity o f 700 tons as well as a
4 Megawatt power plant using the methane gas generated by the landfill.

10.     Also at the Odayeri landfill site ISTAC operates a medical waste incinerator with a
capacity o f 24 tons/day. Medical waste i s directly collected by ISTAC in special vehicles
from over 190 different medical facilities.

11.     At this point Istanbul does not yet have a formal program for segregation of
recyclable materials. A pilot program i s currently under implementation in four DMs and
wilI be extended to another I 1 DMs shortIy. A new 2,000 todday waste segregation and
composting facility for the landfill site on the Anatolian side i s inthe project design stage.

Sea vessel waste removal.

12.     In addition to managing solid waste disposal ISTAC is also responsible for
collection and disposal o f wastes from ships as well as for collection and disposal o f waste
and debris from water surfaces and shorelines,            Waste from ships i s collected in
compliance with the provisions o f the IMO/MARPOL 73/78 Convention on Prevention of
Sea Pollution by Ships. For that purpose ISTAC operates a fleet o f 12 barges that collect
different types o f waste and take it to a facility at the Haydarpava port for treatment. The
Haydarpaga facility was built recently and specifically designed to treat waste containing,
or contaminated by, oil and petroleum-based materials. ISTAC considers the current
system o f operating separate barges for each type o f waste as inefficient and plans to
acquire a number o f new barges capable o f handling multiple waste streams. To increase
the incentives for orderly waste disposal by ships ISTAC, at the request of IMM,charges a
fee that covers only about 25% o f the actual cost o f the collection and disposal operation.

13.     ISTAC i s also in charge o f controlling illegal waste dumpingby ships and operates
two airplanes that monitor such illegal activities in the Bosporus and the adjacent areas o f
the Black Sea and the Sea o f Marmara.


                                               20

Closure o f existing landfills.

14.     Prior to construction o f regulated solid waste landfills in 1994, garbage was
dumped in areas that are generally a gravel pit/quarry, a topographical valley, or a hillside
where the sloped down area is not easily accessible to the public. Such wild dumps inthe
Istanbul region have been operated by the local municipalities. Currently, IMM has
identified 28 wild dumps on the European side that should be closed. Prioritization and
waste consolidation evaluation for closure i s to be done during project implementation.
About 14-15 o f such wild dumps are estimated to be on the Anatolian side.

Regulatory Aspects of Waste Management and Environmental Protection.

15.     Waste management policy in Turkey i s in harmony with the "EU Waste
Management Hierarchy" which consists of:

     a) waste minimization;
     b) reuse and/or recycle;
     c) energy recovery/disposal volume reduction (incineration); and
     d) final disposal by landfilling.

16.     The main applicable framework regulations of the Environmental Law of 1983 (as
revised in 2006) relevant to the IMIP are the following:

        Solid Waste Control Regulation, 1991 (revised in 2005);
        Medical Waste Control Regulation, 1993 (revised in 2005);
        Hazardous Waste Control Regulation, 1995 (revised in 2005);
        Soil Pollution Control Regulation, 2001 (revised in 2005);
        Water Pollution Control Regulation, 1998 (revised in 2004); and
        Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation, 1993 (revised in 2004),

        The above regulations have recently been revised for harmonization with the
applicable EU Directives on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), Waste, Landfill and
Incineration. Certain EU Regulations for specific types o f wastes (waste oil, batteries and
accumulators, packaging waste, marine vessel wastes, used tires etc.) have also been
transposed into the Turkish legislation and transposition o f the remaining EU special waste
Acquis i s continuing.

18.     However, effectiveness o f country-wide implementation of the existing regulations
i s questionable due to the lack o f adequate financing and the limited number and capacity
o f waste management facilities to provide services needed to fulfill the requirements for
waste recovery and final disposal. The lack o f waste management infrastructure also
hampers effective regulatory enforcement.

19.     As one o f the largest urban conglomerations inthe world, Istanbul has major urban
planning, traffic, energy and water supply services related environmental challenges. O f
the environmental concerns, waste management is inIstanbul the highest priority issue that
requires effective management on a daily basis, both from environmental protection



                                              21

(public health, ground and surface water quality, quality o f life) and the public awareness
point o f views.

20.      The IMM i s far ahead o f the other Turkish municipalities in solid waste
management services. In harmony with the EU waste hierarchy, IMM has been investing
in and operating sanitary landfills, solid waste recovery and composting facilities, and
medical waste collection and disposal facilities to fulfill its environmental protection
responsibilities. Upgradinghetrofitting o f solid waste services and pertinent facilities are
deemed necessary to respond to the continuing growth o f the metropolitan area.
Considering the magnitude o f the investmentsrequired to upgrade solid waste services, a
phased investmentprogram would be necessary to meet EU standards, namely:

    PhaseI :    Closure      o f   illegal    sites,  improved     operations     in    waste
                minimizatiodrecovery and regulated disposal at sanitary landfills,
                 improved public awarenesdtraining inwaste management,
    Phase 11:   Expansiodretrofitting o f recycling centers and existing sanitary landfills,
                 improved prevention o f illegal dumping and effective regulatory
                enforcement,
    Phase 111: Establishment and upgrading o f marine and industrial waste management
                 infrastructures to complement effectiveness and viability o f the solid waste
                management system.

Earthquake Vulnerability o f Municipal InfrastructureSystems.

21.      Istanbul lies on one o f the world's most active earthquake fault zones, which
extends from Indonesia through the Himalayas, Iran, Turkey, Greece and parts o f Southern
Europe and North Africa. Throughout recorded history Turkey and Istanbul have suffered
repeatedly from severe earthquakes. Prior to 20th century, there were 37 recorded
earthquakes affecting Istanbul with an estimated magnitude from 6.1 to 7.7 on Richter
scale. The 1999 Marmara earthquake, whose epicenter was only 60 km from Istanbul,
caused a death toll o f about 17,000 and its negative direct economic impact was estimated
at about 2.5 YOof GNP.         A subsequent assessment carried out by JICA in 2000-02,
estimated the probability o f a major earthquake affecting Istanbul in the next 30 years at
62% (k 12%) and the likelihood o f such an event in the next 10 years at 32% (+ 12%).
These probabilities are very similar to those for the San Francisco and Los Angeles areas
o f California, which lie astride a fault similar to Turkey's North Anatolian fault - the San
Andreas fault.     According to the same JICA study, an event similar to the Marmara
earthquake could result in up to 87,000 casualties and heavy damage to more than 350,000
public and private buildings, Some recent damaging earthquakes in Turkey are listed in
Table 1.




                                               22

Table 1: EarthquakeDamage Scenarios for Istanbul

                                                               ModelA                  Model B
                                                        (most probable case)          (worst case)

  Human Casualties
  Deaths                                                    73,000 (0.8%)            87,000 (1.O%)
  Severely injured                                          120,000 (1.4%)           135,000 (1.5%)

  Building Damages      /'
  Heavily                                                   51,000 (7.1%)            59,000 (8.2%)
  Heavily +Moderately                                       114,000 (16%)            128,000 (18%)
  Heavily +Moderately +Partly                               252,000 (35%)            300,000 (38%)

                                                                                          ~
  Household Damages       /'
  Heavily                                                       216,000                 268,000
  Heavily +Moderately                                           503,000                 601,000
  Heavily +Moderately +Partly                                  1,116,000               1,300,000

  Public Buildings Located in High Seismic                      42.8%                    48.5%
  Intensity Areas                                               43.6%                    53.1%
  Educational                                                   48.0%                    53 .o%
  Health                                                        53.0%                    57.2%
  Security                                                      59.4%                    69.6%
  Governmental
  Water Pipeline Damage Points                                   1,400                     1,600
  Gas Pipeline Damage Points                                       11                       13
  Electric Cable Damages                                    820 km (2.5%)             1,080 (3.3%)
  Bridge Damages (high probability of                              18                       20
  collapse)
    /' Definition of damages: Heavily: collapse or ieavy structure damage that is unusablefor evacuation
    and living without repaidrebuild; Moderately: usablefor evacuation, but repairs necessaryfor living;
    Partly: usablefor evacuation and living, but repair is desirablefor living.
Source: Japan International Cooperation Agenq [JICA]: The Study on a Disaster PreventiodMitigation
Plan in Istanbul Including Seismic Microzonation in the Republic of Turkey; December 2002

Disaster Prevention/ Mitigation Basic Plan Studv inIstanbul.

22.      The JICA study provided an outline for the development o f a broader framework
for disaster prevention and mitigation planning in Istanbul. It emphasized the need for
seismic micro-zoning studies as the scientific and technical basis for disaster
preventiodmitigation, recommended the development o f citywide preventiodmitigation
programs against building and infrastructure damage, and highlighted the necessity to
integrate disaster prevention considerations into the urban planning process for the city. It
insisted, especially, on the need to undertake, immediately, the retrofitting o f important
facilities and key infrastructure to secure their continuing operation in the event o f an
earthquake.




                                                    23

23.      The    JICA      study    was
followed by the preparation in 2003
o f an Earthquake Master Plan. The
Plan, prepared by Turkish experts,         Retrofitting of public facilities, such as City Hall and other government
details the necessary earthquake
disaster mitigation measures that are     Constructionof a disastermanagementcenter
differentiated according to short,         Implementinga campaign to raisepublic awarenessabout disaster

medium,          and       longer-term
requirements. Short-term measures,        Medium- and Longer -Term Measures
to be implemented immediately,            Formulationof a master plan for earthquakedisaster prevention
                                          Formulation of an urban redevelopmentplan aimed at establishing an
include the retrofitting o f important
facilities and infrastructure to secure
their proper functioning in the event
o f an-earthquake disaster. Medium and longer-term measures, to be implemented within
the next 5- 10years, include bothphysicaland institutional objectives.

24.      Inaddition to the JICA Study, several other reports on the general earthquake risk
to the lifelines o f Istanbul have been published in the recent past. These include reports
from Turkish universities, public agencies and others. The reports cover the risk to the
electric power system, the water and waste water systems, the gas distribution system, the
transportation system, ports, etc. The reports contain much data on many o f the technical
aspects o f earthquake risk in Istanbul, selected inventory data, and data on what is being
done to reduce risk. All agree that the risk o f earthquake damage and the resulting
interruptions o f service are very high. All o f the reports also agree that detailed studies o f
the earthquake risk to the municipal infrastructure systems o f Istanbul need to be
conducted. Further, they also agree that serious mitigation efforts are necessary to make
these systems much less vulnerable to earthquakes.

Institutional Responsibilities for Emergency and Hazard Risk Management.

25.      Historically, L a w No. 7269, "Measures and Assistance to Be Put into Effect
Regarding Natural Disasters Affecting the Life o f the General Public" sets forth the
institutional arrangements for disaster management.

26.      Turkey i s divided into 81 provinces governed by administrators appointed by the
central government. A provincial disaster committee i s composed o f senior provincial
officials from relevant ministries and departments like civil defense, health, education, and
includes mayors (who are elected officials) and the Red Crescent Society. In addition,
there are approximately 840 sub-districts in the provinces and some 3,200 municipalities.

27.      Traditionally, disaster management in Turkey has been highly centralized. Local
authorities administered directives from the center and Governors are expected to
coordinate and mobilize the resources o f other agencies. Mayors have relatively limited
direct authority and responsibility for disaster management. Minor crises are to be handled
at the district or sub-district level. If the disaster exceeds capabilities at that level, the
provincial Governor becomes involved.          If it is a major event, representatives of the
ministrieso f the central government become involved and establish crisis centers. Ifthere


                                                24

i s a national-scale natural disaster, a crisis center i s established in the office o f the Prime
Minister that includes senior representatives of at least 15 ministries, including the
military.

28.     The operational responsibilities at the provincial level reside with governors. Each
ministry has a unit responsible for some aspect o f disaster management. Rescue and relief
operations are the direct responsibility o f the provinces or districts, with assistance
provided by the central government; the central government, under MPWS, i s responsible
for reconstruction and rehabilitation. The RedCrescent Society, the General Directorate of
Civil Defense (GDCD in the Ministry o f Interior), and the military also play a significant
role inrescue and relief operations.

29.      In June 2000 the Government enacted the Decree to formally establishing the
Turkey Emergency Management General Directorate (TEMAD) as a national coordination
body for emergency management.

30.      Following the Marmara earthquake, a great part o f responsibilities for the hazard
risk mitigation were vested with the local level authorities and since than, many individual
municipalities have, at their own initiative, undertaken activities to strengthen their
emergency preparedness capacity.

31.      At the provincial level, the overall responsibility for all post-disaster relief and
reconstruction efforts rests with the Provincial Governor but many o f the crucial for
disaster management functions are within the jurisdiction o f municipality. Consequently,
in Istanbul there are two separate disaster management centers: the Istanbul Province
Disaster Management Center (AYM) and the IMMDisaster Management Center (AKOM).
Each o f these two centers has specific responsibilities: AYM i s responsible for dealing
with all aspects o f health, education, civil defense, security, civil works and other services
normally operating as part o f the State administration. AKOM, in turn, i s responsible for
all services falling under the authority o f IMM, including fire brigades and the services
operated by the various `municipal economic enterprises' (water, gas and electricity
operators).

32.      The municipal center (AKOM) was completed and began operations within a year
of the 1999 earthquake. Modeled after a similar facility in Los Angeles County, A K O M
contains many state-of-the-art features and accommodations for each o f the municipal
agencies that would need to respond to a variety o f emergencies. On the other hand, the
construction and strengthening o f AYM i s being undertaken under the ISMEP project
within the context o f enhancement o f emergency response capacity, along with retrofitting
o f public buildings in Istanbul (schools and hospitals).

33.      Taking into account the institutional set-up for emergency management mitigation,
assisting IMM and its municipal services in improving their preparedness for a possible
natural disaster i s o f key importance, in addition to the on-going Bank support in this area
to the Provincial Government. Moreover, ensuring full coordination and cooperation
between provincial and municipal authorities i s one o f the objectives o f the proposed
project.



                                                25

Public Awareness and Neighborhood Community Volunteers.

34.     Evidence from earthquakes and other natural disasters, including those in Turkey,
demonstrates the importance o f a knowledgeable public who can make a critical difference
in reducing the loss o f life in the immediate aftermath o f an earthquake.     Therefore,
community-based disaster awareness programs as well as support to the volunteer groups
constitute crucial aspects o f disaster preparedness at the municipal level.

35.     Creating and sustaining volunteer groups to provide assistance in preparedness and
response efforts i s a challenge worldwide. Numerous groups piloted volunteer initiatives
inTurkey following the 1999earthquake, with varying degrees o fsuccess. As an example,
one o f the programs i s the Neighborhood Disaster Support (MAG) funded by the Swiss
Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC). It mobilizes neighborhood groups by
working through Muhtars (the lowest level o f governmental structure in Turkey).      The
teams participate in a training program conducted by professionals from Civil Defense,
Fire Brigades and medical associations, and inperiodic exercises.

36.     The public information campaigns aimed at increasing public awareness o f seismic
risks, training in preparedness and mitigation measures, and the support to the volunteer
groups are already incorporated in the design o f the ongoing ISMEP project.
Consequently, the proposed Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality Project will not duplicate
these efforts and these activities are not included the proposed project.




                                               26

         Annex 2: RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies


A list of recent Bank projects in the sector is shown below.

Table 1:


             Name                              ClosingDate                         OED ICR Rating
                                                                            Outcome       ISustainability
                                   ACTIVE and CLOSEDPROJECTS
Izmir Water Supply and              12/31/1995                           Highly            Unlikely
Sewerage (P008971)                                                       Unsatisfactory
Istanbul Water Supply and           0113 111998                          Satisfactory      Uncertain
Sewerage Project iP009034)
Ankara Sewerage Project             0212811999                           Satisfactory      Uncertain
(P009061)
Bursa Water and Sanitation          0613012001                           Satisfactory      Likely
Project (P009065)
Antalya Water and Wastewater        613012003                            Moderately        Likely
Project (P009093)                                                        Satisfactory
 Emergency Flood and                0913012003                           Satisfactory      Likely
Earthquake Recovery Project
(P058877)
Cesme-Alacati Water Supply and       1213112004                          Moderately        Likely
Sewerage Project (P008985)2                                              Satisfactory
Marmara Earthquake Emergency         1213112006                          N A               N A
Reconstruction Project (P068368)
Railways Restructuring Project      0913012009                           N A               N A
(P077328)
Municipal Services Project          0613012010                           N A               N A
(PO8 1880)
Renewable Energy Project            0613012010                           N A               N A
(P072480)
Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation    0913012010                           N A               N A
and Emergency Preparedness
Project (P078359)
Gas Sector Development Project       1213112012                          N A               N A
(P093765)




 2The Project Status Report at project closure rates both the IP and DO as satisfactory.


                                                      27

                         Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring


                                     ResultsFramework

              PDO                  ProjectOutcome Indicators           Use ofProjectOutcome
                                                                               Information
improvingperformanceo f IMM         reducednegativeimpact o f         contributeto further discussion
in management of environmental      solid waste disposal on the       and formulation of IMM
services and protectionof natural   environment and population        policies and investment
resources                                                             priorities
strengtheningcapacity of IMM
to cope with natural disasters and  reducedrisk o f breakdownof
continuingdelivery o fbasic         key municipalservices and
municipalservices inthe event       infrastructure during
o f a possible earthquake.          earthquakes

  IntermediateOutcomes               IntermediateOutcome             Use of IntermediateOutcome
                                              Indicators                        Monitoring
Component A:                        wild dump sites are properly       use project experience for
  environmentaland public           closed accordingto standards       formulatinglong-termpolicy
 health risks from collectionand    identifiedinthe EMP.               and decision-making
 disposalof solid waste from
 households


Component B                         municipal infrastructure risk      refinedesigncriteriaand cost
 municipalservices are              mitigationplancompleted            data to improve quality and
  strengthenedand better            retrofitting of other essential    cost effectiveness of future
 preparedfor an event of a          infrastructure completed           retrofitting works
  disaster; key infrastructureis
 retrofitted


Component C                                                            design and implementationof
    demonstratedfeasibility of      pilot urbantransformation          other urbantransformation
    urbantransformation             projectfeasibility studies are     programs in high-riskareas
    programstaking into account     completed.
    hazardvulnerability             Priority investmentsidentified
                                    and undertaken.

Component D                         IMMimplementationprogress          monitorcompliance of IMM
 project is successfully            and financialreportingis           with projectmanagement
  completedon time                  satisfactory and in line with      responsibilities
                                    agreed schedule.
                                    Auditors issue unqualified
                                    opinion on financialstatements
                                    o f projectaccounts




                                                  28

    I zE
       Y      -0
       C       C
               m
       P
       C
       E
   :a
       C
       eE
                    2
                    a



W
E
.I
L
0
.3
c,


E
c.,
v)
I
RQ    2
L      >

G
h    i
       r
       :
 i .I
c,
 v)    c


 Q
 W
4E
 E       (v
         cr:
         $1




         2
         $1




       I                 d
                         z
      e



                         C
                         0




       L

     I




                             0
                             M
a-




                   d
                   z    Q
                       z




      I    .    w .

                            Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription


1,      The IMIP would consist of the following four components:

A.      Improvements inenvironmental management
B,      Strengtheningo f municipal services and infrastructure
C.      Pilot urbantransformation program
D.      Project management and audits

Component A: Improvements in environmental management (World Bank: US$96
million)

Objective of Component A: to assist IMM in (i)closure o f uncontrolled disposal sites for
municipal solid waste (MSW); and (ii)institutional strengthening o f solid waste services
through preparation o f annual Business Plans on financial and technical operations.

2.      Component A includes the following sub-components:

(a) Closure o f illegal dumps and rehabilitation o f creeks (US$SO million): environmental
    site investigations; design; civil works and equipment required for the closure and
    rehabilitation o f landfills; and rehabilitation o f landfills as needed.       A detailed
    feasibility study including prioritization and an integrated plan for closure,
    rehabilitation and post-closure management o f the uncontrolled waste disposal sites
    and creeks will be undertaken as part o f project implementation.

3 ,     The closure o f the existing waste disposal sites are based on the following options:

- Excavation o f all the waste material from the disposal site and disposal in a sanitary
landfill. This option o f full removal o f the waste i s financially viable up to a certain
volume and also depends on the distance to the sanitary landfill and the quality o f the
waste. Environmental aftercare could still be required for this option if the subsoil is
heavily polluted and/or causes risks for nearby population or water resources. The
rehabilitation will be based on the placement o f clean soil fill and re-vegetation via seeding
with crabgrass or trees.

- Partial removal o f the waste to a sanitary landfill could be most appropriate for larger
disposal sites to reshape the disposal area so that it i s sustainable. The area can then be
covered with an adequate cover material o f gravel/clay/topsoil sequence to prevent
infiltration o f precipitation and tailored to the anticipated landfill gas production. In this
case, the disposal site's subsoil needs to include a sufficiently thick layer o f naturally
impermeable material to enable leachate containment and treatment. This option would
mostly apply to waste disposals inclay pits.

- Ifthe quantity o f the waste inthe waste disposal site i s very large and becomes too costly
to remove, then in-place closure o f the site may be considered. This option i s similar to the
partial removal option with a top cover and landscaping. However, under this option the
subsoil may not always consist o f a fully impermeable (clay) layer. The design of this


                                               31

option will therefore be based on detailed site investigations and a risk assessment of
anticipated mobility o f pollution and exposure paths o f sensitive receptors (mainly
population and water resources). The closure and adequate coverage o f the disposal site
will stop infiltration o f precipitation and in time the generation o f leachate. The design
will also include leachate extraction and treatment and landfill gas monitoring (possibly,
landfill gas drainage and/or use for energy) and continuous maintenance o f the closed site.

4.       For all sites, adequate environmental site investigations will be conducted to test
the quality of adjacent surface waters, leachate, the subsoil and local groundwater. The
results will be usedto prepare the closure and to prepare the monitoring plans.

5.       In addition, the component will also include a risk management plan after the
closure o f all sites for maintenance and restricted access has to be established for the
partially removed or unremoved waste sites.

(a) Preparation o f annual Business Plans: The annual Plans include operating performance,
     annual investmentsand financial indicators and targets.

(b) Waste collection equipment (US$16 million): the purchase o f priority waste collection
     equipment.

Component B: Strengthening o f municipal services and infrastructure (World Bank: US
$126 million)

Objective of Component B: to assist IMM in further preparing the city for a possible
earthquake, including funding o f priority investments in the most vulnerable earthquake
prone areas. Component B includes the following sub-components:

         Preparing a detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems;
         Developing a Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation Plan.        This plan would
         prioritize and select projects for strengthening based on importance and cost
         effectiveness; develop a list o f equipmentneeded for optimal response following a
         major earthquake; and develop a long term plan for strengthening and associated
         maintenance o f municipal infrastructure;
         Retrofitting o f municipal infrastructure (US$lOO million): retrofitting o f selected
         municipal infrastructure such as under-passes, pipelines, viaducts etc.; and
         Providing emergency response equipment (US$26 million): emergency response
         and rescue vehicles, command equipment,etc., for the fire brigades.

         For steps (a) and (b), a Task Force will be organized, consisting o f representatives
o f municipal government agencies that would be affected by a major earthquake and
organizations responsible for the above facilities. Each organization will rank its own
facilities according to life-safety risk and critical need, with emphasis on optimizing
emergency response following a major earthquake and minimizing serviceibusiness
interruptions. Because o f limited resources, it will not be possible to both evaluate in
detail and strengthen all facilities. This project component will address only the most
critical facilities given limited funding.        It would consist of detailed earthquake



                                               32

engineering risk studies and strengthening designs that will be carried out on the selected
systems and their facilities, as recommended by the JICA study and other recent studies.

7.      The program would consist o fthree phases: a risk audit, a cost-benefit analysis, and
various forms o f implementation such as earthquake retrofitting and contingency planning.
A brief summary i s presentedbelow.

8.      Phase I- Risk Audit. The first step i s to understand the risk by developing a
scenario o f what would happen if a strong earthquake were to occur. This Risk Audit
would be conducted by highly trained earthquake engineers who visit the facilities and
make surveys to identify principal sources o f risk and estimate all potential losses -
buildings, equipment, piping, business interruption, etc. Typically, the losses are presented
as probabilistic numbers in terms o f direct financial impact (damage and loss) and service
or business interruption. Most frequently, the expected damage i s expressed as Probable
Maximum Loss.       The results are summarized in a table for each system, its critical
structures and their contents. Recommendations are made for further cost-benefit analyses
based on the importance and extent o f the expected damage.

9.      Phase I1- Cost-Benefit Analysis. Seismic structural analyses would be performed
o f selected important municipal systems and their components (for example, a specific
water treatment plant or a specific pumping station in the water system) to specifically
identify all significant earthquake vulnerabilities.    In the cost-benefit analysis detailed
evaluations are made of high-risk facilities to confirm Phase Ifindings and develop
mitigation options and project costs. This evaluation o f buildings, equipment, etc., will
provide information concerning strengthening details to achieve the desired earthquake risk
reduction.    This information can then be used to finalize the appropriate level of
strengthening (Implementation) based on both cost and overall risk reduction objectives.

10.     Phase I11- Implementation. This phase would include development o f final design
drawings o f strengthening features (to buildings, equipment, piping and other system
components), construction documentation, actual construction, and emergency response
planning by the respective municipal utilities, and strengthening o f response capacity of
fire brigades.

ComponentC: Pilot UrbanTransformation Program (World Bank: US $100 million)

Objective o f Component C: to assist IMM to further develop its urban transformation
program by supporting pilot urban transformation studies and investments throughout the
metropolitan area.

    (a)    Preparing and further developing existing feasibility studies for pilot citywide
           urban transformation projects and implement selected investments.

    (b)    The investments would include city center revitalization, retrofitting and
           construction o f buildings, fire stations and emergency housing associated with
           urban transformation inearthquake prone areas.




                                              3 3

The selection criteria for the urban transformation component will be based on the
following criteria: be technically feasible,      economically, financially viable and
environmentally beneficial and supported by an operational improvement plan; support
investments that will be managed by the Borrower or one o f its utilities after the
completion o f the investment; be located in the most seismic vulnerable areas; and ensure
that the investments have the environmental mitigatiodmanagement plan completed and
reviewed by the Bank.

11.     The broader aims o f the urban transformation program are to reduce public
vulnerability to seismic risk and improve the overall quality o f life in the metropolitan
area. High priority will be given to two types o f sites: high density neighborhoods in
seismically sensitive areas with poor housing quality and limited public access, which are
likely to suffer the most damage during an earthquake and be the most difficult to reach
with emergency response equipment; and public areas used for recreation, nodes in
transportation networks and staging areas in case o f emergency. In additional to providing
funds for studies and investments, the Bank will help IMM and district municipalities
increase their familiarity with worldwide experience in urban transformation and
participatory planning and develop participatory planning approaches that are effective and
efficient inthe Istanbul context.

Component D: Project Management and Audits (IMM: US$14 million; World Bank:
US$O.15 million)

Objective of ComponentD: to assist IMMinthe efficient and expeditious implementation
o f the project in accordance with World Bank project management requirements.
Component D includes the following subcomponents:

    (a) Project Management: preparation o f design studies, tender documents, review o f
        strengthening and other design and related social, environmental, and legal
        assessments, unforeseen technical surveys and studies, as well as preparatory
        studies for possible follow-up projects and technical training for project
        implementation; and
    (b) Audits o f project accounts (US$.15 million): the annual external audits of the
        project accounts in compliance with World Bank guidelines.




                                            34

                                        Annex 5: Project Costs


                                                                         Local         Foreign          Total
                 Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                US$           US$             US$
                                                                         million       million          million
Component A      Improvement o f Environmental                             70.00          26.00           96.00
                 Management
Component B      Strengthening o f Municipal Services and                  56.00          70.00         126.00
                 Infrastructure
Component C      Pilot Urban Transformation Program                        90.00          10.00         100.00
Component D      Project Management and Audits                             14.00           0.15           14.15




                     TotalProjectCostswith contingencies'                 230.00        106.15          336.15
                                                   Front-end Fee             0.00          0.00             0.00

                                    Total FinancingRequired               230.00        106.15          336.15


   `Identifiable taxes and duties are U S $ 51.35 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US $
   284.8m. Therefore, the share of project cost net oftaxes is 85%.

   Front end fee has beenwaived for FY07.




                                                      35

                          Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements


1.       IMIP will be implemented from 2007 - 2012 under the direct responsibility of
IMM. The implementation of the project by the Borrower will be on the basis ofthe use of
existing municipal staff according to their relative functions, and there will be no separate
project implementation unit.          The Financial Department will coordinate project
implementation, especially in regard to reporting and communicating with the Bank, but
various other technical specialists will provide support according to their relevant
functions.    The Financial Department will be responsible for procurement, disbursement
and financial management, accounting and reporting. Implementation will be undertaken
by existing qualified staff from the Finance Department itself as well as technical experts
from relevant other departments o f IMMand, on an as needed basis, representatives o f the
beneficiary municipal service companies. Technical supervision o f project implementation
and monitoring, evaluation o f project results, and checking o f engineering designs to
ensure that they meet project criteria will be undertaken by the technical staff from IMM.
Possible needs for specific skills and qualifications that might not be available in IMMwill
be satisfied through the temporary employment of local consultants and/or the procurement
o f international expertise to be financed under the project.

2.       This will be the first Bank project to be undertaken by IMMwho will be new to the
Bank project implementation procedures, but they should benefit from the experience o f
the ongoing ISMEP project coordinated by the Istanbul Project Coordination Unit (IPCU)
located within the Istanbul Special Provincial Administration (ISPA). The IPCU team was
already consulted during the proposed project preparation and expressed its willingness to
assist IMM on any matter related to the implementation. Such cooperation i s o f key
importance, particularly, for efficiency o f efforts in the area o f emergency preparedness
and management, for both IMMand the provincial government. While the IMM Financial
Department unit will be new to the Bank project implementation procedures, it should
benefit from the experience o f the ongoing ISMEP project coordinated by the IPCU
located within the Istanbul Special Provincial Administration (ISPA). The IPCU team was
already consulted during the proposed project preparation and expressed its willingness to
advise IMM on any matter related to the implementation. Such cooperation i s o f key
importance, particularly, for efficiency o f efforts in the area o f emergency preparedness
and management, for both IMMand the provincial government.

3.       The Financial Department will monitor IMIP implementation progress and results
against the agreed outcomes and performance indicators specified in Annex 3.                 To
establish the framework for a reliable and objective system o f M&E, baseline data and
information on the current conditions o f solid waste collection and disposal and maritime
pollution will be collected by the Financial Department prior to the start o f project
implementation. These baseline data will be usedto monitor the impact and benefits o f the
project by comparing service conditions before and after IMIP implementation.

4.       The results o f monitoring and evaluation activities will be reflected in quarterly and
annual progress reports prepared by the Financial Department. These progress reports will
cover performance and impact indicators, progress in the implementation o f works and/or


                                                36

delivery of goods and services, training and studies, as well as the use of project resources
under the project. The report for the fourth quarter of each year will be prepared in the
form of an annual report that will summarize the results achieved during the year and
provide a work planand budget for the following year.

5.     A Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project will be conductedby mid 2009, or two
years after the expected commencement of IMIP implementation. The Financial
Department would prepare a detailed mid-termreport to serve as the basis for the MTR.
The MTR will review the actual implementation performance of each of the project
components, identify the reasons for possible delays and poorer than anticipated results
and, if advisable, agree with IMM possibly required changes in the investment programs
and reallocation of loan proceeds. The World Bank would conduct regular supervision
missions about once every three months, during the initial years of IMIP implementation.
The Financial Department will also help prepare the IMM contribution to the World
Bank's IndependentEvaluationReport.




                                             37

U

          Annex 7: FinancialManagementand Disbursement Arrangements



A.      Summary of FinancialManagementArrangements

1.     The project will be implemented by the Metropolitan Municipality o f Istanbul
(IMM). The Financial Operations Department (FOD) (Mali Hizmetler Daire Baskanligi,
formerly known as Hesap Isleri Daire Baskanligi) o f IMM will be responsible for the
financial management o f the project. The staff working at the FOD have not worked with
World Bank procedures. However, they are very experienced in the Government financial
management procedures and have good English language skills.             IMM is also very
experienced in working with other international financial institutions and commercial
banks.

2.      An assessment o f the financial management arrangements for the project was
undertaken in October 2006 and updated in March 2007. Current financial management
arrangements for the project are satisfactory to the Bank.

3.      The overall financial management risk for the project is substantial before
mitigation measures and with adequate mitigation measures agreed, the financial
management residual risk i s rated moderate.

Country Issues.

4.      Until 2001-02, public financial management in Turkey was based on an outdated
legal framework. Enactment o f the Public Financial Management and Control (PFMC)
Law in2003 was a defining moment for public financial management in Turkey. The law
articulates a modem view o f performance oriented public sector management. It clarifies
the nature of ministers' and officials' accountability to the public by strengthening public
expenditure and financial management processes in line with EU practice.               Full
implementation o f the PFMC at the central government agencies as well as local
governments, however, still represents a major challenge.

5 .     The Ministry o f Finance regulation 25839 dated June 8, 2005 has laid out the
budgeting and accounting principles for the general government institutions.           This
regulation i s supported by the Local Administrations Budgeting and Accounting
Regulation published by the Ministry o f Interior (Regulation 26104) on March 10, 2006
for the municipalities. The regulation 26104 prescribes a code o f accounts, recording
principles and a set o f tables that are required to be used for budgeting, management
information and year end reporting.

Risk Analysis

6.      The overall financial management risk for the project is substantial before
mitigation measures, and with adequate mitigation measures agreed, the financial
management residual risk i s rated moderate. The Table below summarizes the financial



                                              39

management assessment and risk ratings o f this project. A summary o f the risk assessment
for the project i s as follows.



                           FM Risk Rating Risk       Mitigating      Measures  Risk Rating after
                                          incorporated into project design     Mitigation
                                                                                Measures




investment planof IMM                     investment plan.
Accounting.       Project Substantial     The   project   accounting will   be Moderate
accounting is   not yet                   integrated into the IMP accounting
integrated  into    IMM                   system once the projectcomponents are
accounting system                         agreed upon.
Internal Controls. The     Substantial    Internal control procedures for the Moderate
draft project financial                   financial management of the project
management manual is                      will be established and documented in
not vet Dreoared                          the FM Manual. IMM has submitted
    i  l  l                               the draft FM manualto the Bank.
Funds Flow                 Moderate                                             Moderate
FinancialReporting.        Moderate                                             Moderate
Auditing                   Moderate                                             Moderate
Overall Control Risk       Substantial                                          Moderate
Overall FM Risk            Substantial                                          Moderate

Strengths.

7.       The significant strength that provides the basis o f reliance on the project financial
management system i s that Metropolitan Municipality o f Istanbul (IMM) has a
computerized financial management system that i s in compliance with the Local
Administrations Budget and Accounting Regulation and the project accounting will be
integrated into this system.

 WeaknessesandAction Plan.

8.       The financial management environment of IMM includes deficiencies described in
the assessment below and IMM should take immediate action to address these.               The
following action plan i s proposed to address the deficiencies in the IMM financial
management environment.


                                               40

Action                                            Deadline
The budgeting requirements for the project Board Condition
will be finalized and related approvals will
be obtained.
Project financial management manual will Board Condition
be prepared.
Project accounting will be integrated into July 15,2007
IMMaccounting system
IMMwill establish a modern internal audit December 31,2007
department

ImplementingEntity.

9.      The project will be implementedby IMM. Its staff had only limited exposure to
Bank projects inthe past and therefore there i s a need for capacity building in World Bank
procedures to be undertaken for the project implementation group that i s yet to be
established. The Financial Operations Department o f IMM will be responsible for the
financial management o f the project.         The staff working at the Financial Operations
Department are not experienced in World Bank procedures. However, they are very
experienced in the Government financial management procedures and have good English
language skills. IMM also has relations with international financial institutions and
commercial banks.

10.     IMMwill prepare a financial management manual that will describe the financial
management arrangements o f the project. The manual will cover: (i)the organization o f
the financial management and job descriptions; (ii)disbursements and related internal
controls; and (iii)work flows. The financial management manual will be expanded to
include more information on: (i)the financial and accounting policies and procedures for
the project; (ii)the financial management information system; (iii)project reporting; and
(iv) project budgeting and planning procedures.

11.     Istanbul Municipality i s administered through a two-tier local government system
that consists o f the IMM at the top level and 32 District Municipalities at the lower level.
The PFMC law enacted in 2003 articulates a modern public financial internal control
framework both for the central government agencies and the local governments. The
Ministry of Interior has published Local Administrations Budgeting and Accounting
Regulation (Regulation 26104) on March 10, 2006 for the municipalities. The regulation
26104 prescribes a code o f accounts, recording principles and a set o f tables that are
requiredto be used for budgeting, management information and year end reporting. IMM
i s one o f the first municipalities to apply the requirements o f the Regulation 26104 and has
developed in-house accounting system that i s in compliance with the Regulation. IMM i s
also currently enhancing its internal control systems through revising the formal internal
procedures to comply with these changes as well as commencing with the establishment of
a modern internal audit department, One o f the pillars o f PFMC was enhanced external
audit by Turkish Court o f Accounts (TCA) which would include financial audit o f IMM.
The draft TCA Law which authorizes the TCA to carry out financial audits of


                                                 41

municipalities i s currently in the Parliament and therefore currently IMM i s not subject to
any external financial audit requirements. When IMM i s subject to TCA financial audit,
the financial statement audit report together with the management letter will be providedto
the Bank.

 12.    IMIP will be the first World Bank fundedproject that will be implementedby IMM
and even though IMM i s a well established, high capacity institution it currently lacks the
familiarity with World Bank requirements and procedures. IMM staff has already started
training in World Bank financial management, procurement, environmental safeguards and
overall Bank operations.

13.     The risk associated with the implementingentity is assessedas moderate.

Budgeting.

 14.    IMM investment budget is prepared in line with its strategic plan and annual
performance plan. The investments o f IMM however first have to be approved by its
assembly prior to its approval by the State Planning Organization (SPO) where foreign
financing i s involved. In cases where SPO approval was not granted before the year,
Higher Planning Council decision i s requiredfor the proposed investments.The budget for
IMMshould beapproved by its assembly bythe 31st ofDecember.

15.     The SPO approval for the investments proposed under the project is not
comprehensive and there might be a need for Higher Planning Council decision for these
investments. The project implementation will begin in 2008 and therefore IMM will
integrate the project activities into its budget, as the one approved for 2007 by the IMM
assembly does not reflect the investmentsproposed under the project.

16.     The risk associated with the budgeting is assessedas substantial. The task team is
searching for the State Planning Organization letter o f confirmation indicating that the
investmentsare included inthe investmentplan is beingobtained.

Accounting.

17.     Project accounting will be maintained by the FOD o f IMM.FOD o f IMM has five
sub-departments; Budgeting, Income, Expenditures, Financing and Financial Control. IMP
i s currently using a computerized Oracle based financial management system that i s in
compliance with the Local Administrations Budget and Accounting Regulation. The
current program used by IMM i s developed in-house and facilitates the integration o f the
project accounting into the main system.

18.     Accounting procedures for the project will be set out in the project financial
management manual.

19.     The risk associated with accounting is considered as modest. IMMwill work on the
integration o f the project accounting into its main system once the project components and
sub-components are finalized.



                                               42

Internal Control and Internal Auditing.

20.     There is currently not an internal audit department (IAD) which undertakes regular
audits o f the internal controls within IMM and therefore no reliance will be placed on
internal audit at the beginning o f the project However IMM as a part o f the Financial
Management and Control Law which requires internal audit departments to be established
at Government institutions including the municipalities has to establish an IAD. The
Ministry of Finance department responsible for the coordination of government internal
auditors has started a training program in February 2007. Two staffs from IMM are
currently attending these programs and IMM i s formerly planning to establish the IAD
after the completion o f their training. They expect that four staffs will be formally trained
and the internal audit department will have 20 staff, IMM i s committed to establish its
Audit Department before December 31, 2007.

21.     IMMhas recently documented its internal control procedures for each department
under a working principles manual. The working principles manual is currently pending
approval o f the higher management.

    0   The capital expenditures o f IMM are quite significant and the internal control
        procedures relating to the capital expendituresare as follows:
    0   The procurement procedures are conducted by relevant technical departments in
        accordance with the Public Procurement Law.
        IMM sets up a control approval commission for the procurement of goods and
        works. This commission i s responsible for certifying that the goods or works
        procured fulfill the technical specifications detailed inthe bidding documents.
    0   Once the procurement process i s completed, the documents are submitted to the
        Financial Control department for payment. The FOD i s responsible for checking
        that all authorized names and signatures o f a particular technical department are
        complete.
    0   The FOD than makes the payment through bank payment orders and the
        transactions are entered into the accounting records.

22.     IMMhas documented the internal control procedures specific for the project inthe
project financial management manual. IMMinternal control procedures are comprehensive
and cover the above procedures. However in order to strengthen internal controls further
and to minimize the risk o f misuse or fraud with respect to financial management the
following ways will be detailed in the project financial management manual and will be
subject to regular compliance checks by the IAD once it becomes functional.

        The Financial Department will make the payments to contractors only after
        verifying that the invoices and other payment documents contain all technical
        approvals that are required and after verifying that the payment requests are line
        with the contracts.
    0   The payments will be executed by a different person from the one who authorizes
        them; the verification will be done by the technical departments following the IMM




                                               43

          internal procedures which requires verifying the goods purchased or the works
          done including physical inspectionand the payment will be done by the FOD.
    0     The staff responsible for the project bank account will prepare and document bank
         reconciliations on a monthly basis. The reconciliation files will be supervised and
          signed by the Head o f Financial Department (or his designated deputy) on a
          quarterly basis.
          The project FM team will prepare checklists for required documentation for each
         type of transaction. These checklists will also be attached to the Financial
          Management Manual. The Head o f the Financial Department (or his designated
          deputy) will supervise that full supporting documentation i s provided for each
          transaction.

23.       The risk associated with internal control is assessed as moderate. IMM has
prepared the draft financial management manual for the project and the internal control
procedures will be further detailed in the project financial management manual during the
life o f the project.

Funds Flow and DisbursementArrangements.

DisbursementArrangements.

24.       Designated account: IMMwill open and maintain a Designated Account (DA) in
Dollars at an acceptable commercial bank. The DA will be used following procedures to
be agreed with the Bank, and will have a ceiling of $33 million. Two signatures indicated
in the list of authorized signatures submittedby IMMwill be required on the withdrawal
applications. The minimum application size for payments directly from the Loan Account
or for issuance o f Special Commitments i s $6.6 million. Applications for replenishmentof
the DA will be submittedto the Bank on a monthly basis, or when the balance of the DA i s
equal to about half o f the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first,
and will include a reconciled bank statement as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.

25.       Use o f statements o f expenditure (SOEs): Disbursements will be made against
SOEs for: (i)goods costing less than $1 million equivalent per contract; (ii) costing
                                                                                 works
less than $10 million equivalent per contract; (iii)   consulting contracts with firms, costing
less than $ 450,000 equivalent each; and (iv) consulting contracts with individuals, costing
less than $ 100,000 equivalent each. Full documentation in support o f SOEs would be
retained by IMM for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made. This
information will be made available for review during supervision by Bank staff and for
annual audits that will be required to specifically comment on the propriety o f SOE
disbursementsand the quality o f the associated record-keeping.

26.       Utilization of Loan Proceeds: IMM will finance US$14.0 million of the total
project cost. The Bank loan will thus finance about 96% o f the total project cost (including
VAT).



                                                44

 27.     Retroactive Financing: Not applicable.

 Category                                                   YOo fExpenditure to be financed
                                              Allocation


 1. Goods (including supply and
 installation)                              II    42*0    I1            100%

 2. Works                                        280.0                  100%                I
~




 2. Consulting services                           0.15                  100%

 3. Front-end Fee                                 NA                     NA

 Total                                          322. 15


 The risk associated withfundsflow is considered as modest.

 Financia1Reporting.

 28.     IMM will maintain records and will ensure appropriate accounting for the funds
 provided. Financial statements for the project will be prepared by IMP. The interim un-
 audited financial reports (IUFR-also referred to as the Financial Monitoring Reports -
 FMRs) will be prepared on a quarterly basis and will be submitted to the Bank no later
 than 45 days after the end o f the quarter. The format and the contents o f the IUFR have
 beenagreed with the Bank.

 The IUFR will includethe following reports:
     0   Expenditure Tables,
     0   Special Account Statement,
     0   Procurement Tables,
     0   Output Monitoring Reports.

 29.     The draft financial management manual of the project includes a section on the
 IUFRand formats of these reports are detailed there.

 30.     The risk associated with reporting and monitoring is assessed as moderate. The
 Bank and IMMhave agreed on the formats o f the IUFR.

 Auditing.

 31.     IMM is subject to Turkish Court of Accounts (TCA) audit on an annual basis.
 However TCA does not prepare an annual audit report but carries investigations on a case
 by case basis where they have detected non-compliance with the procedures. Therefore
 there are not any TCA reports available for review.




                                              45

32.     The project will not form a significant part of the financial statements of IMM.The
capital expenditures o f IMMinthe year 2005 amounted to nearly US$975 million and the
project will finance expenditures o f US$276 million over five years. The project also
does not have a capacity building component and major financing i s for the procurement of
goods and works. Therefore the annual financial statements o f IMMwill not be subject to
an independentaudit untilthe TCA law i s enacted.

33.     There are no legal requirementsfor the audit o f IMMaccounts. There is currently a
draft TCA Law that i s in the Parliament and once it i s enacted IMM annual accounts will
be subject to financial audit by TCA. When IMM is subject to TCA financial audit, the
financial statement audit report together with the management letter will be provided to the
Bank.

34.     IMM will prepare annual project financial statements and the project financial
statements will be subject to annual audits by the Treasury Controllers. The Terms o f
Reference o f the annual audit o f the project financial statements acceptable to the Bank,
have been expanded to cover the verification o f the existence and functioning o f the assets
purchased through project funds. The auditors will also verify that the assets purchased
remain the accounting records o f the IMM.

35.     The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within
six months o f the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project.

36.     The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be requiredto be submitted
by the project implementationagency together, with the due date for submission.


                   Audit Report                                       Due Date
     Entityfinancial statements                 N/A
     Project   financial  statements     (PFS), Within six months of the end of each fiscal year and
     including SOEs and SpeciaUdesignated also at the closing o f the project
     account and expanded audits. The PFSs
     include sources and uses of funds by
     category, by components and by financing
     source; SOE statements, Statement of
     designated account, notes to financial
     statements, and reconciliation statement.

37.     The risk associated with auditing is assessed as moderate. The expanded audit
TOR ensured that the audit o f the Treasury Controllers will cover the existence and
functionality of the assets purchased through project funds.

Supervision Plan.

38.     During project implementation, the World Bank will supervise the project's
financial management arrangements as follows: (i)       during the World Bank's supervision
missions, financial management and disbursement arrangements will be reviewedto ensure
compliance with the Bank's minimum requirements; (ii)project's quarterly interim


                                               46

unaudited financial reports as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and
auditor's management letter will be reviewed. As required, a World Bank-accredited
Financial Management Specialist (FMS) will assist in the supervision process. The FMS
will follow-up the compliance with the action plan before board presentation, and the first
on-site supervision will be within the six months o f the project effectiveness.




                                             47

                          Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements


General

A.     Procurement

General. Procurement under the project will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines: procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004, and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions enumerated below and stipulated in the Legal Agreement.        The
agreements covering procurement methods and thresholds have been determined for Turkey
according to its capacity and experience with World Bank's ECA Region Thresholds for
procurement methods effective from January 9, 2007. The procurement agreements have been
appraisedand detailed in the procurement plan for the Project summarized below. The General
Procurement Notice i s to be issued on or about June 1,2007.

Goods and Works and Non-consulting (Technical) services




           Procurement        Procurement Method Threshold       Prior Review     Aggregate
              Method                                              Threshold
     1.  ICB                                                  All
     2.  LIB                                                  All
     3.  NCB                  <$ 1,000,000 -goods             First contracts of
                              <$ 10,000,000 -works            goods and works
     3.  Shopping              <$ 100,000 -goods              First contracts of
                              <$ 100,000-works                goods and works
     4.  Direct                                               All
         Contracting

       b) Pre-qualification: Not applicable.

       c) Proposed Procedures for CDD Component: Not applicable.

       d) Referenceto Project OperationaYProcurement Manual: Not applicable.

          The works contracts to cost less than $10,000,000 per contract and the Goods
          manufactured within the country and readily available in the local market to
          cost less than $ 1,000,000 per contract may be awarded through National
          Competitive Bidding (NCB). Any ambiguity regarding predominance o f the
          World Bank's procurement rules below from paragraph (i) (xi) below shall
                                                                       to
          be discussed at the negotiations and made part of the Loan Agreement.




                                            48

i)Eligibility

Bidding shall not be restricted to domestic bidders. N o restriction shall be
appliedto foreign bidderswho wish to submit a bid.

ii)Procedures

Invitations to bid shall be advertised inthe Official Gazette or in at least one
widely circulated national daily newspaper or in an electronic portal of free
access allowing a minimum o f 30 days for the preparation and submission
o f bids.

iii)Assessmentofthebidder'squalifications

Where pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications of the bidder who is
recommended for award o f contract shall be assessed by post-qualification,
applying minimum experience, technical and financial requirements that
shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents and which shall be
determinedby a `passifail' method.

iv) Participation by Government-ownedEnterprises

Government-owned enterprises in the Republic o f Turkey shall be eligible
to participate in bidding only if they can establish that they are legally and
financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a
dependent agency of the Government. Furthermore, they will be subject to
the same bidandperformance security requirementsas other bidders.

v) Participation by Joint Ventures

Participation shall be allowed from joint ventures on the condition that such
joint venture partners will bejointly and severally liable under the Contract.

vi) BiddingDocuments

Procuring entities shall use the Bank's sample N C B documents for ECA
Region for Works and Goods and shall draft contract and conditions of
contract acceptable to the Bank.

vii) Bid Evaluation

Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the monetarily
quantifiable criteria declared in the bidding documents and a merit point
system shall not be used. Extension o f bid validity shall be allowed once
only for not more than 30 days. N o further extensions should be requested
without the prior approval of the Bank.       Contracts shall be awarded to



                              49

qualified bidders having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially
responsive bid. N o domestic preference shall apply under National
Competitive Bidding.

viii) Price Adjustment

Works contracts o f long duration (e.g., more than eighteen (18) months)
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.

ix) Rejectiono f All Bids

All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the Bank's
prior written concurrence.

x) Contracts

All contracts shall be in writing, signed and stamped by authorized
signatories o f the Purchaser and the Supplier and contain identical terms
and conditions o f contract to those included inthe tender documents.

xi) Securities

Bid Securities should not exceed 3 % (three percent) o f the estimated cost
o f the contract; Performance Securities not more than 10 % (ten percent).
No advance payments shall be made to Contractors or Suppliers without a
suitable Advance Payment security. The wording o f all such securities shall
be included into the bidding documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank




                                50

   1                 2                    3           4      5        6             7          8          9

Ref.             Contract             Estimated    Procure  P-Q    Domestic      Review     Expected Comments
   No.         (Description)             cost       ment          Preference     by Bank      Bid-
                                     Million USD   Method          (yedno)       (Prior /    Opening
                                                                                   Post)      Date
Works
~~~


       1Urbantransformation             100.0       NCB    No        N o           Prior     912007
           selectedpilot projects     (multiple
                                     contracts )
        Closureof Wild Dumps             80.0       NCB                            Post      312008  Additional
                                      (multiple                                                      $30 million
                                     contracts)                                                      will be
                                                                                                     financed by
                                                                                                     IMM
        Strengthening of
        Municipal services              100.0       NCB                            Post      612008
        Infrastructure                (multiple
                                      contracts)                              fi
       I                           I
Subtotal Works                         280.00




Subtotal Goods                          42.00




                   (b) All ICB and all direct contractingwill be subject to prior review by the Bank.

               2. Consulting Services

                   Selection o f Consultants

                   a) Prior Review Threshold: Selection Decisions subject to Prior Reviewby Bank
                       as stated in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines Selection and Employment o f
                       Consultants.




                                                        51

                                                   Selection          Prior Review         Number of
                     Selection Method               Method             Threshold           Contracts
                                               Threshold (USD)                          Subject to Prior
                                                                         (USD)
                                                                  I                    1     Review
                                                                                        All contracts        1
                Quality and Cost Based                                                 1above $350,000
                Selection (QCBS)                                        350,000         and first two
                                                                                        QCBS contracts
                                                                                        All contracts
                Least Cost Selection (LCS)                               350,000        above $350,000
                                                                                        and first two LCS
                                                                                        contracts
                Selection Based on                                                      First contract is
                Consultant's Qualification        < $200,000                            subject to prior
                (CQS)                                                                   review
                Single Source Selection
                (SSS)                                                                   All contracts
                                                                                        All contracts
                Individual Consultants                                   100,000        above $100,000.
                                                                                        All sole source
                                                                                        contracts.

         b) Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Shortlist o f
              consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $ 200,000 equivalent per
              contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance with
              provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

         c) Any other SpecialSelectionArrangements: Not Applicable

         d) ConsultancyAssignmentswith Selection Methods and Time Schedule


                                                                                   I                 1
1 1               2                   3            4             5           6              7

Ref.       Description of         Estimated     Selection     Review     Expected       Comments
No.          Assignment             cost                                 Proposals
                                   Million                    (Prior I   Submission
                                    USD                                     Date
     EngineeringDesign and
     Const supervision for the
     retrofittingof service         4.50
     infrastructure*
     EngineeringDesign and
     Const supervisionfor the       2.50                                            NON BANK
                                                            1
     waste transfer stations*                                                           FINANCE

     EngineeringDesign and
     Const supervisionfor           2.50          PPP          NA                   NON BANK

     Closure o f Wild Dumps   *                                                         FINANCE

     Municipal Seismic                                                              NON BANK
     RedevelopmentPlan *             2.0                                                FINANCE
     Pilot urbantransformation      2.50                                            NON BANK



                                                 52

       studies*                                                                      FINANCE
       Audit o f Project Accounts   0.150       LCB         Prior        412008
                                                                                             -
SubtotalB                           14.15
SUB TOTAL A+ B                     336.15

  PPP: Public Procurement Procedures
  (*): The contract will be financed by IMM'sown sources.

  B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implementprocurement

  An assessment of the capacity of IMMto implement procurement actions for the project
  has been carried out.          The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for
  implementingthe project.

  Based on the discussions held by the task team and the Treasury, IMM, State Planning
  Organization (SPO), the project components will be implementedand coordinated by IMM
  through its Financial Department.

  The key issues and risks concerning procurement and management for implementation of
  the project have been identified and include lack of experience with World Bank-financed
  projects. The IMM staff will be trained by World Bank staff on procurement knowledge
  and qualifications and contract management. A procurement training session has already
  beenheldinFebruary, 2007.

  It is recommended that this project be placed initially in the moderate to high risk
  category. The risk rating will be re-evaluated after one year o f loan effectiveness and
  adjustments made accordingly.

  During the project launch workshop the World Bank will organize a two day training
  program for IMM staff to provide further training on the World Bank's Guidelines and
  standard biddingdocuments to be usedinthe implementation o f the project.

  C. ProcurementPlan

  The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation that
  provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed on February 21,
  2007 and i s summarized. It will also be available inthe project's database and inthe World
  Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
  Project Team bi-annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
  and improvements in institutional capacity.

  D. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

  Contracts not subject to World Bank's prior review will be post reviewed by World Bank
  supervision missions and/or duringregular post-reviews by PAS on sampling basis, Le. 1




                                                53

out o f every five contracts. The frequency o f procurement supervision should be every six
months inthe first year o f implementation.




                                               54

                        Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis

FinancialAnalysis

1.     During 2005, the budgetary resources of IMM were derived from three different
sources: tax revenue, non- tax revenue and borrowing. O f the total revenue o f US$1,949
million equivalent, tax revenue provided 78%. About 98% o f this amount representedthe
municipality's share o f Government taxes as provided for by statutes and the balance o f 2%
was derived from municipal own-source taxes. Non-tax revenuewas about 17% o f income
mainly in the form o f revenue from municipal services.            The balance o f budgetary
resources (5%) came from local borrowing. The municipality's total revenue has increased
by about 100% during the last two years. However, this increase was accounted for by an
increase in the municipality's share o f Government tax, which increased from 59% o f
revenue in 2003 to 76% in 2005. The municipality's own revenue remained static during
this period and as a result its proportion of total revenue fell from 41% in2003 to 25% in
2004 and 19% in 2005.

2.      During 2005, US$482 million (25%) o f income was usedfor current expenditure in
operating municipal services. Personnel costs represent about 45% o f this expenditure.
US$385 million (20%) was transferred to participating municipalities and semi-
autonomous municipal entities largely for unforeseen emergencies or maintenance and
social services. New construction and major repairs represented at US$994 million or
about 50% o f expenditure. Debt service was US$148 million (8%).           The debt service
coverage was about ten times. There was a deficit o f about 3%.        The municipality has
operated well within its budget during 2004-05,

3.      The municipality operates a mixed cash and accrual accounting, and some
improvements in this area have been implemented in recent years.                 The Public
Administration and Control Law o f 2004 required that municipalities gradually introduce
full accrual accounting and long-term budgeting. IMM plans to implement accrual
accounting by the end o f 2007. While this should improve the control system, there i s a
need for further development o f its management accounting system to provide for proper
financial control which i s essential for the management o f a major city like Istanbul with
an annual budget o f about US$ 2 billion equivalent. The IMM's accounts are audited
annually by the Turkish Court o f Accounts.

4.      IMM is dependent on the allocation of government tax revenue and this
dependence has increased recently, with funds from this source increasing from 59% o f
total revenue in 2003 to 67% in 2004 and 76% in 2005. This increase has resulted mainly
from an increase inthe percentage o f funds allocated to the city to reflect the extension o f
the city's boundaries and the general increase ingovernment tax revenueresultingfrom the
6.6% expansion o f the economy in 2005. The fact that the central government establishes
tax rates, collects taxes, and distributes proceeds to the municipalities, places limits on
IMM's budgetary flexibility. However, this is off set to some extend by the fact that the
allocation o f a proportion o f government revenue to municipalities i s governed by statute
and so i s not subject to annual appropriations by Parliament making this a reliable source



                                               55

o f income for municipalities. IMM's own resources consist o f a limited tax base and
charges for services provided and rent o f property.

5.      IMM'soperating ratio is low, ranging from 22% to 25% during 2003-2005, as the
major part of it expenditures involves discretionary allocations covering capital investment
and transfer payments to other municipal entities. The major fixed cost i s labor, which
accounts for about 10% o f expenditure. This cost has risen substantially in recent years,
increasing by 29% in2003, 18% in2004 and 35% in2005. This increase i s entirely due to
increased labor rates as there has been a continuous decrease in the number o f employees
since 2000 representing a 20% decrease in the five year period. The balance of the
operating expenditure covers the cost of materials and services.

6.      Between 20% and 29% of IMM's expenditure involved transfer payments to
municipal utilities during the period. These payments cover investment in capital of
municipal enterprises, assistance to subsidiary municipals and aid to students and
syndicates. IMM's major expenditure consists o f its capital investment program which
absorbed 62% o f its expenditure in 2003, 42% in 2004 and 51% in 2005. The program
covers real estate acquisition, project studies, infrastructure construction, and major repairs
and maintenance.

7.      Debt service expenditure ranges from 4% in 2003 to 8% in 2008. As IMM has a
very low operating ratio its debt service coverage ratio ranged from 9 times in 2005 to 20
in 2003. Since 2002, the city has servicing its debt on schedule without recourse to
Treasury. Turkish law limits Istanbul's debt burdento 150% o f total revenue and requires
Treasury approval if refinancing in any year exceeds 10% o f revenue. Treasury approval
i s also required if Istanbul seeks to issue foreign currency denominated bonds. Overall,
Istanbul's direct debt in 2005 was a fairly low at 12.3% o f revenues while tax-supported
debt was 40% o f revenues, significantly down from the 1998 level o f 170%. The city's
debt maturity profile i s also satisfactory.

8.       IMM'sfinancial performance over the pastthree years has beensatisfactory leaving
it with a favorable debt profile and a moderate debt service requirement. Improvements
are requiredin the financial and management accounting area to increase transparency and
provide the necessary information for management control.

9.       IMM'sbudgeted accounts for 2006 show a marginal decrease intax revenuebut a
60% increase in municipal non-tax revenue resulting in an overall revenue increase o f
12%. Giventhe projected economic growth and inflation rates the overall target should be
achieved. Operating expenditure i s projected to increase by 18% to 26% o f total
expenditure. This represents a 1% increase compared to 2005. This increase i s modest
given the recent expansion o f the city's area. Allocations for transfer payments and capital
investment is inline with the 2005 level.

 10.     IMM's projections for 2007-2008 show a modest rise in total income from
government and own resources o f about 5% per annum. However, a substantial increase in
borrowing i s projected rising from US$170 million equivalent in 2006 to US$527 million
in2007 and US$559 million in2008.



                                               56

11.     Operating expenses are projected to increase by about 6% per annum. The major
part o f the will be used to increase transfers to associated municipalities and utilities,
expand IMM's own capital investment program, provide for debt service and to increase
reserves. IMMwill continue to be in a strong position to meet its debt service obligations
as less than 30% o f its revenue i s requiredto meet its operating expenses.

12.     Substantial investments have been made in recent years in improving roads, water
supply and wastewater facilities. However, major infrastructure investments are now
required in other areas particularly for expensive retrofitting o f existing structures,
specifically for all private and public buildings, which i s required to bring city earthquake
preparedness up to acceptable safety standards. Preliminary estimates o f the cost o f
earthquake preparedness are in the region o f US$lOO billion. To meet those future
financial requirements, IMMwill have to increase its borrowing inthe near future.




                                              57


ECONOMIC ANALYSIS


13.    The second project objective is to strengthen the municipal services o f the
Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) and increase its preparedness for expected
large earthquakes by retrofitting key municipalfacilities infrastructure.

14.    In order to meet its objectivesthe projecthas a number of components such as:

    0  To prepare a detailedrisk assessment for all major municipal systems;
    0  To prepare a Municipal InfrastructureRisk Mitigation Plan;
    0  To retrofit selected key building, fire stations and municipal infrastructure;and
    0  To provide needed equipment.

15.    Further, and to meet the same objective of mitigating risk and expected damage
the project will undertake a pilot urbantransformationprogram with two components:

    0  Pilot urban transformation feasibility studies; and
    0  Selected urban transformation priority investments.

Costsof the EarthquakeMitigation Measures

16.    The cost o f the former four components, aggregated as Component B, is
estimated at US$ 130 million, and the cost of the pilot transformation program,
aggregated as Component C, is estimated at US$ 100 million. The combined cost of
Components B and C is thus US$230 million.

Benefits of the EarthquakeMitigation Measures

17.    The benefits o f the earthquake mitigation measures (EMM) are to avoid or
mitigate the costs o f earthquake. Such costs comprise (i) direct earthquake damage; (ii)
disruption of economic activities; and (iii) the loss of life and the suffering that
earthquakesbring.

18.     It is possible to provide a sense of the economic value o f the damage that
investments under the EMM would help mitigate or avoid. An assessment carried out
by JICA estimates that the probability o f an earthquake affecting the Istanbul region
within 10 years is 32% (+/- 12%) and within 30 years 62% (+/- 12%). Assuming that
Istanbul will retain its rough 23% share of Turkey's total GDP; that annual GDP
growth will be 3.3%; and that the damage from a future Istanbul earthquake will be
2.5% of total GDP (in line with the estimate for the 1999 Izmit earthquake that struck
60 km from Istanbul) one can then approximatethe present value o f the damage from
an earthquake within 10 years and 30 years, respectively, as shown inthe table below.




                                             59

Year GDP Damage Earthquake                            Probability Discount        PV damage
                              Damage                                 factor
2004 270
2012 350         @,2.5%       8.8                     0.32           0.62          1.75 billion
2032    670      @2.5%        16.8                    0.62           0.08          0.83 billion

Legend: The discount factor assumes an annual discountrate o f 10% in constant prices, calculatedfrom
the currentyear, i.e. 2007. The presentvalue (PV) damage is the discount factor multiplied by the
earthquake damage in the year of occurrence o f the earthquake.

19.      It can be seen that an earthquake within 10 years from the JICA assessment of
the year 2002 is by far the most damaging quake as measured by the direct economic
damage that can be roughly estimated at US$1.75 billion, or US$1,750 million.

EconomicAnalysis of Solid Waste Component

20.     The principal aim o f the economic analysis is to assess whether the proposed
project would provide the least cost intervention to reach the goal o f ending wild
dumping and reducingthe risk o f illegal discharge of ship borne wastes. Furthermore,
the analysis sought to develop a quantifiable sense ofthe value of avoided damage.

21.      The methodology adopted for the economic analysis of the solid waste
component (Component A) is discounted cash flow technique. Future costs and
benefits are projected in line with the revenue and expenditure patterns along with the
investment costs specified for the proposed project. The discount rate at 10% is
believedto appropriatelyrepresent the opportunity cost o f capital.

Assumptions for "Without Project" Case

22.      Net sales, operating and maintenance expenditures and net profit figures of
ISTAC are assumedto grow in line with the increased service volume characterized by
the growth o f population (3.8 % per annum). The net profit margin over the analysis
period is assumedto be 15%.

23.      ISTAC maintains its service level by expansion investments at a rate equal to
the growth of the population. In addition to the expansion investments, ISTAC
undertakes annual replacement investments in amounts equal to the annual depreciation
of fixed assets.

24.      Given the above assumptions, the forecast o f ISTACs basic financial indicators
i s presented in Table 1.




                                                   60

                  Table 1: Proiected basicfinancialindicators (in US$ million)


                PARAMETER                2003   IACTUAL1
                                                  2004    ZOOS   1I 1[2006   I2007   I     FORECAST
                                                                                      2008  12009 I 2010  I2011 I 2012
Net Sales                                  439      545     7 2 1
Operation and Maintenance Expenditures     3 0 2    4 0 1   478
lvet Profit Margin                         26%      20%     33%         15%     15%     15%    15%    15%    15%    15%
Net Profit                                 1 1 2    1 0 8   236

Net Working Capital                        114      222     4 3 4       4 4 9   4 6 6   484    50 2   52 I   54 I   562
Net Working Capital as % Net Sales         26%      41%     60%         60%     60%     60%    60%    60%    60%    60%
Change in Working Capital                           I O 8   21 2          1 5     1 7    1 8    I 8    1 9    2 0    2 1

                                                                        127     132     137    1421   1481   1531   159

                                                                        20%     20%     20%    20%    20%    20%    20%

                                                                         2 5     2 6     2 7    2 8    3 0    3 1    3 2

                                                                        102     106     110    114    118    123    127

                                                                         3 0     3 1     3 3    3 4    3 5    3 7    3 8



Assumptions for "With Project" Case

25.          ISTAC would undertake the investments presented in Annex 4 to improve
waste management in Istanbul. The construction/installation period covers mid-2007to
mid-2009 at equal annual investment volumes. The facilities will become operational
as of mid-2009and are assumed to have a useful life of 20 years.

26.          The envisaged measures would improve environmental management in the
Greater Istanbul area but would for the most part not result in direct financial returns.
The only direct revenue generation resulting from the proposed investments are the
tariff revenues to be obtainedfrom the marinewaste collection and emergency response
vessels.          The current tariffs for marine waste collection services in Turkey are
established by a communiquejointly announced by the Ministry of Transportation and
Ministry of Forestry and Environment (Official Gazette No. 26284, 09 September
2006). Based on that an average tariff of US$ 50/m3 is assumed for marine waste
collection services. The annual waste collection capacity of the vessels is assumed to
be 75,000 m3/year.

27.          Two possible means of indirect revenue generation resulting from the project
are waste recycling facilities at the transfer stations and gas utilization units at the
landfill sites. In this analysis, however, no such revenues are assumed. Total annual
operating and maintenancecosts of the project components are assumed to be 5% of
the total investment costs. Specific waste generation in Istanbul is assumed to be 0.9
kg/capitdday.

28.          The EnvironmentalManagement Component benefits will include an end to or
a high level of control of the water, land, and air pollution associated with wild dumps.
However, full valuationof benefits would require hydrologic mappingthat could not be
economically undertaken during project preparation, given that both Turkish law and
accepted international practice call for control of solid waste. The value of benefits
comes from a small proportion of those that can easily be measured and a large
proportion for which only qualitative evaluation is feasible. The mix of benefitsfrom a
national program that fully complies with EU Acquis requirements is documented in
the report TheBenefits of Compliancewith the Environmental Acquisfor the Candidate



                                                           61

Countries3. In that report, the annual benefits to Turkey of full compliance with EU
environmental standards are calculated to be equivalent to Euro 50 and Euro 233 per
capita as the low and high values, respectively. The waste sector would account for
around 2.5% and 12.4% of the low and high values (Euro 1.2 and Euro 29 per capita),
respectively. The investments under this project will help Turkey move toward that
goal.




 Ecotec et al, 2001, downloadable at http://ec.europa.eu/environmentienlarg/pdf/benefit_long.pdf

                                                  62

                             Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues

1.      Components o f the lendingprogram that are likely to trigger safeguard policies are
the rehabilitation and closure of existing landfills, and the earthquake preparedness
retrofitting of selected buildings; but other components cannot be excluded. The
conclusive identification o f investment objects under the project components (landfills,
buildings etc.) and the decision on the nature and extent o f the necessary works will be
based on feasibility studies and design work to be executed during implementation o f the
project. Therefore at this stage the IMM has adopted Environmental Safeguards
Framework and Resettlement Policy Framework acceptable to the Bank to review
safeguards issues in the process o f decision-making, to conduct consultations and to
include adequate measures into the implementation o f project components.

2.       Safeguard policies that are likely to apply to the project are:

         (a)   Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
         (b)   Cultural Properties
         (c)   Involuntary Resettlement

3.       Environmental Impact Assessment.             The Project has been classified with
Environment Category FI; therefore all project (sub-) components will be screened to
assess the need to perform some form o f environmental assessment. The procedures for
screening and executing o f environmental assessments have been adopted by the IMM in
the Environmental Safeguards Framework (ESF).The ESFmeets boththe requirementsof
Turkish Environmental Review regulations and the World Bank Environmental
Assessment safeguard policy (OP/BP/GP 4.01). The ESF will be reviewed by the Bank
during the course o f Appraisal. The Bank will monitor adherence to the ESF as part of its
supervision activities.

4.       The Environmental Category o f the project is FI. The Environmental Category FI
rating i s based on the fact that the investments under the project cannot be assigned a
single environmental category. In addition, some anticipated investments have not yet
been identified. In that case, the FI provides the flexibility to IMM to finance an
Environmental Category A investment should that be necessary, subject to following the
necessary safeguards.

5.       The Environmental Assessment for the Environmental Management component of
the project to clean up 28 illegal waste sites was undertaken inthe manner described inthe
Environmental Framework. The Environmental Assessment was disclosed in country on
February 5,2007 and inthe InfoShop on April 30, 2007.

6.       The closure and rehabilitation of waste disposal sites with in most cases no
containment measures will be o f great environmental benefit and remove or control an
important risk o f surface water and groundwater contamination.

7.       For the retrofitting o f buildings and infrastructure, key environmental issues
include: (i)creation o f public nuisance in the nearby community, (ii)disruption of


                                               63

municipal services normally provided, (iii) and noise, (iv) determination and sorting
                                                dust
of reusable/recyclable material, (v) handling and disposal o f asbestos, products with
asbestos (pipes, insulation, etc.), (vi) radioactivematerials (vii) transportation and disposal
o f debris, (viii) sediment to sewerage systems (or non-point source runoff), and (ix) impact
on buildings with architectural, historical or cultural significance.

8.       The use o f innovative, minimally intrusive technical retrofitting solutions will be
promoted. Only on a very limited scale will demolition and replacement (in the same
location) be necessary for structures that do not qualify for retrofitting. Both types o f
interventions have environmental impacts that are minor to moderate in scale, and very
localized in extent. Impacts can be readily defined, mitigated and monitored. Project
activities will take place in areas that do have cultural heritage values protected under local
and national laws and practices. New construction (if required) may take place in urban
areas with exiting populations and their uses/values will be taken into account. Retrofitting
and new construction has been successfully carried out in the Istanbul area in the recent
past (mostly with Turkish funding) without significant impacts.

9.       In cases of retrofitting work on certain public buildings in Istanbul, the safeguard
policy on Cultural Property may be triggered, as potentially some o f the publicly used
facilities, important for emergency response activities, may turn out to either have
cultural/historical value, be invery close proximity to such properties, or may be located in
an overall historic area. Irreversible impacts are not anticipated given local ordinances and
practices regarding cultural heritage protection.

10.      Appendix C provides a generic environmental mitigation and monitoring plan for
the retrofitting o f buildings and infrastructure.

11.      The IMMhas prepared an indicative Environmental Assessment and Management
Plan to identify potential environmental issues related to the project and support the
preparation o f the Environmental Safeguards Framework.

12.      Cultural Property. Turkish laws and practices are consistent with the World Bank
safeguard policy on cultural property (OPN 11.03). There are no separate regulations for
Istanbul Municipality. Cultural Property issues are likely to arise with the retrofitting o f
existing buildings to include earthquake safety measures. Procedures to identify and
address cultural property issues have been included inthe ESF.

 13.     Involuntary Resettlement (World Bank OP 4.12): The project does not trigger OP
4.12, Involuntary Resettlement, as all works anticipated to be funded by the project will
take place on public land or within existing rights o f way. None o f these activities will
entail any land acquisition, relocation o f population, or result in restricting the access o f
individuals or communities to economic resources. Given the dynamic situation in the
IMM,the results of plans or studies underway or to be undertaken, however, it is possible
that the Municipality will request support for an investmentthat will require private land to
be acquired or public land to be cleared. To enable the project to respond quickly and
positively to such an eventuality, the IMMhas prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework
satisfactory to the Bank that will ensure compliance with OP 4.12. There will be no



                                                64

physical movement of people. In addition prior review of all proposed urban
transformationinvestmentsunder Component C will be undertaken.




                                      65

                   Annex 10.1:EnvironmentalSafeguards Framework

SAFEGUARD REVIEW PROCEDURES

1.      This Environmental Safeguards Framework defines the safeguards procedures that
the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) will apply to sub-projects to be financed
under IMIP regarding issues related to:

        (a)     Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
        (b)     Cultural Properties
        (c)     Natural Habitats
        (d)     International Waterways
        (e)     Involuntary Resettlement

A.      ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT

        Overview

1.      All sub-projects to be financed under the project will be subject to an
        environmental review process by IMM utilizing the procedures described in this
        section (including selectedjoint reviews and clearances by the World Bank). These
        procedures incorporate Turkish regulatory requirements for Environmental Review
        (Regulations on Environmental Impact Assessment, Official Gazette, dated 16
        December 2003, Number 25318 from the Ministry o f Environment and Forests
        (MoEF), hereafter the "Reg~lation")~and World Bank Environmental Assessment
        safeguard policy (OP/BP/GP 4.01).

2.      The environmental assessment process is carried out to evaluate potential positive
        or negative impacts o f any proposed sub-project; to evaluate measures that must be
        taken to prevent or minimize potential negative impacts damaging to the human
        and natural environment (for example by site selection or mitigating measures at a
        given site); and for supervisiodinspection o f sub-project implementation.

3,      The Turkish environmental impact assessment regulation classifies projects by
        environmental risk in a similar manner to World Bank EA policy (OP 4.01).
        However, there may be some cases where the resultant environmental risk
        assignment may differ. Therefore, in some cases it will be necessary for IMM to
        request additional information or request additional measures to be taken by the
        sub-project sponsors as a condition o f receiving World Bank funds.




4       This regulationis soonto be revised. When the revisedregulationis legally adopted, the procedures
presented hereinmay be subject to revisioncontingent upon any changes prescribed inthe new regulation
which may require modificationof the proceduresdescribedhere.


                                                  66

    Procedures

4.  The seven key elements involved in the EIA process are identified         below and
    subsequently described in full detail:


     0          Screening
     e          EA Documentation
     e          Public Consultation
     0          Review and Approval
     0          Disclosure
     0          Conditionality
     0          Supervision and Reporting

4.1  Screening

     4.1.1 Inaccordance with Turkish environmental assessment procedures, MoEF i s
           responsible for initial sub-project screening. The IMM will review the
           documentation and screening decision to identify those cases where World
           Bank safeguards require additional due diligence.

     4.1.2 Ifa sub-project is listedunder Annex Iof the Regulation, a full EIA report
           i s required and all subsequent EA procedures are managed by the main
           office o f MoEF in Ankara.       Sub-projects screened as "Annex I"are
           comparable to a World Bank EA classification o f "Category A". While the
           World Bank requires Category A EIA reports to be prepared by an
           independent consultant not affiliated with the sub-project, this is not
           required under the Regulation. However, the Regulation does include an
           independent review o f the EIA by a MoEF-appointed commission which
           provides comparable peer review.

     4.1.3 If a sub-project is listed under Annex I1 of the Regulation, IMM must
           submit a "Project Introduction File" (PIF) to the MoEF. The Istanbul office
           o f the MoEF evaluates the PIF to determine whether or not an EIA i s
           required. Ifthe local office determines an EIA i s required, all responsibility
           for subsequent EA procedures revert back to MoEF headquarters in Ankara.
           MoEF in Ankara may then at their discretion delegate EA procedural
           responsibilities back to the Istanbul office or retain it for itself. It i s
           important to note that the PIF itself often constitutes a brief though
           professionally-prepared environmental assessment o f the sub-project's
           environmental implications as well as key mitigation and monitoring
           requirements.

           For sub-projects that require an EIA Report, the IMM will be required to
           provide to the World Bank: (i)a copy o f the official MoEF "Environmental
           Impact Assessment Positive Decision" (i.e. official approval that the IMM
           can proceed with the EA process), (ii)an English language version o f the


                                          67

      Final EIA Report, and (iii)an Englishlanguage version o f the EIA Report
      Executive Summary. The World Bank may require some supplementary
      documentation in English ifthere are gaps inthe files submitted.

      For sub-projects that do not require an EIA Report, IMM will submit the
      PIF and formal MoEF Certificate o f "No Need for EIA [Report]" to the
      World Bank who will review the issues identified in the PIF and determine
      if IMMhas prepared an adequate environmental management plan (EMP)
      for mitigating and monitoring potential environmental impacts. Such sub-
      projects are generally comparable to a World Bank EA classification o f
      "Category B".

4.1.4 It is possible that, IMM determines that a sub-project for which the MoEF
      provided a decision o f "No Need for EIA" may still pose a reputational risk
      either to themselves or possibly the World Bank, and that greater due
      diligence i s needed over and above requirements o f the Regulation. IMM
      will consult with World Bank Safeguard specialists to ascertain if more
      rigorous analysis, equivalent to Category A under World Bank EA policy, i s
      appropriate. This situation i s anticipated to be exceptional.

4.1.5 For sub-projects not listed under Annex Ior Annex 11, the Regulation does
      not require any EA documentation. This i s normally equivalent to a World
      Bank EA classification o f "Category C". In a small number o f cases, the
      IMM may be required by the World Bank to prepare an EMP. The EMP
      may be patterned or substituted by a PIF if such documentation i s of
      sufficient technical quality to satisfy World Bank requirements.

4.1.6 As result of sub-project screening the following six alternatives emerge:




      EA procedures for each ofthese six cases can be somewhat different and
      are described inthe subsequent sections.

      Closure of WasteDisposal Sites

      Solid waste disposal sites at the scale that applies to the IMIP are not listed
      in Annex Iof the Turkish Regulation as an activity that requires the
      preparation o f an EIA. It i s enlisted in Annex I1 but without specification
      whether the inclusion applies to merely (new) waste disposal site operations
      or rehabilitation works as well. Closure o f waste disposal dumps projects to


                                      68

         be financed under the IMIP will be classified as Category `B' under the
         World Bank EA policy and will therefore follow environmental safeguard
         procedures that are in line with the Turkish Regulation for Annex I1
          projects. Although not envisaged, in cases where for instance hazardous
          waste disposal would be encountered or waste disposal sites would require
          substantial extension in size, a classification as Category `A' could be
          possible.

4.2 EA Documentation

    4.2.1 Under all Alternatives, unless otherwise specified, EA documentation i s the
          responsibility o f IMM. All EA documentation must include one or more
          maps at an appropriate scale showing project location, major natural
          features such as water bodies (rivers, lakes, etc.) areas o f cultural
          significance, parks and/or natural protected areas, population centers etc.
          The map(s) should note, to the extent possible, any other development
          activities underway or planned inthe near future.

          Alternative I: Annex I/Category A

    4.2.2 The EA Report will be prepared in accordance with the EA outline or
          Format to be provided by the MoEF and in accordance with World Bank
          policy (as detailed in OP 4.01 Annex B-Content o f an Environmental
          Assessment Report for a Category A Project). The Turkish Regulation does
          not include a specific EA format for all projects. There i s a general format
          presented in Annex I11o f the Regulation. However, this is only to be used
          as a framework by the MoEF. Each project i s analyzed in terms o f its
          individual characteristics and based upon this evaluation and input from the
          public consultation (discussed below) a unique format i s provided to the
          sub-project sponsor for the specific project inquestion.

    4.2.3 In those cases where the Turkish EA documentation requirement differs
          from the World Bank, the sponsor will prepare the TurkishEA document in
          accordance with the MoEF Format, and a separate Addendum with any
          supplemental information that may be required by the World Bank EA
          policy.   The EA Executive Summary and World Bank Addendum are
          prepared inboth English and Turkishlanguages.

          Alternative 11: Annex I1positive EIA Decision/Category A

    4.2.4 IMMfirst prepares a PIF inaccordance with the format presented inAnnex
          IV of the Regulation and then will be subjected to the same documentation
          requirementas discussed under Alternative I.




                                        69

          Alternative 111: Annex I1negative EIA Decision/Category A

    4.2.5 IMM will submit to the World Bank a copy of the "No EIA Required"
          certificate. Since the Turkish government has no further EA documentation
          requirement, the sponsor will prepare an EA document in accordance with
          World Bank EA policy (as detailed in OP 4.01 Annex B-Content of an
          Environmental Assessment Report for a Category A Project).               This
          alternative i s not anticipated to occur very often.

          Alternative IV: Annex I1negativeEIA Decision/Category B

    4.2.6 IMMmay choose to submit to the World Bank a copy of the PIF and self
          monitoring form if it i s well preparedand contains sufficient technical detail
          regarding the mitigation measures and monitoring planthat will be followed
          during project implementation or IMM may choose to submit a separate
          EMP in typical World Bank format (See Appendix B). Before preparing
          any document, IMM should discuss the matter with the World Bank to
          agree uponthe type o f document most suitable.

          Alternative V: N o AnnedCategory B

    4.2.7 IMMshould discuss with the World Bank Safeguard specialists as to what
          documentation would be most suitable. It i s anticipated the EMP format, as
          presentedinAppendix B, would be suitable for most situations.

          Alternative VI: N o AnnedCategory C

    4.2.8 No action i s required.

           Closure of Waste Disposal Sites

           Closure o f waste disposal sites will as a rule fall under WB EA Category B,
           and Category A in special cases (see description in the Screening section),
           and an EMP for each closure/rehabilitation site would be a minimum
          requirement for EA documentation. Appendices A and B to this EMF
          provide further details for the preparation o f the EMP.

4.3 Public Consultation

           Alternative I:Annex Kategory A

    4.3.1 According to Turkish Regulation, one consultation i s performedbefore any
           EA documentation is prepared. The MoEF is responsible for conductingthe
          public consultation. In fact, MoEF utilizes the outcome o f the public
           consultation to define the format for the EA document. World Bank EA
          policy requires two public consultations: the first, essentially the same as



                                           70

      the Turkish Regulation, to discuss the draft Terms o f Reference for the EIA
      report, and the second to discuss the draft EIA report itself. Therefore, for
      the Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project, the sponsor will be
      responsible for conducting the second public consultation to discuss the
      draft EA report.

4.3.2 For either public consultation, IMM should ensure that, as a minimum, the
      following information about the public consultation i s documented:

      Manner inwhich notification o fthe consultation was announced:
      Media(s) used
      Date(s), description or copy o f the announcement
      Date(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
      Location(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
      Who was invited pame, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-
      mailnumbedaddress(home and/or office)]
    0 Who attended mame, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail
      numbedaddress (home and/or office)]. A relevant attendance list i s to be
      provided by the Istanbul Provincial Administrator's office o f the MoEF
    0 Meeting PrograndSchedule
    0 What i s to be presentedand by whom
    0  Summary Meeting Minutes (Comments, Questions and Response by
      Presenters)
    0 List of decisions reached, and any actions agreed upon with schedules and
      deadlines and responsibilities.

      Alternative 11: Annex I1positiveEIA Decision/CategoryA

4.3.3. The same public consultation requirements as presented under Alternative I
       are applicable under Alternative 11.

       Alternative111:Annex I1negativeEIA Decision/CategoryA

4.3.4  Since the Turkish government has no further EA responsibility, the two
       public consultations will be the responsibility o f IMM. Documentation
       requirementswill bethe same as indicatedunder Alternative I.

       Alternative IV: Annex I1negativeEIA Decision/CategoryB

4.3.5  Turkishgovernment has no responsibility. However, World Bank EA policy
       requires at least one public consultation which will be conducted by I M M .
       The PIF document can be used as a basis for the public consultation. If it is
       decided that an EMP i s to be prepared, than the public consultation can be
       conducted before the EMP i s prepared to establish environmental issues o f
       concern by affected groups, or alternatively the public consultation can be
       conducted after a draft EMP i s prepared to act as a basis o f discussion. In



                                     71

          either case, if significant environmental issues are raised at the public
          consultation, they shouldbe integratedinto the EMP.

          Alternative V: N o AnnexKategory B

    4.3.6 As with Alternative IV, Turkish government has no further EA
         responsibility. The IMM together with the World Bank decide the
          appropriate EA documentation (EMP or similar). As was the case with
          Alternative IV, the public consultation can be conducted before the EA
          document is prepared to establishthe environmental issues of concern by
          affected groups, or alternatively the public consultation can be conducted
          after the draft EA document i s prepared to act as a basis o f discussion. In
          either case, if significant environmental issues are raised at the public
          consultation, they should be integratedinto the EMP.

          Alternative VI: N o AnnexKategory C

    4.3.7 No public consultation i s required.

4.4 Review and Approval

          Alternative I:Annex II/Category A
          Alternative 11: Annex I1positiveEIA Decision/Category A

    4.4.1 These two Alternatives require a preparation of a Turkish EIA. Under the
          Turkish Regulation, the MoEF is responsible for approving the EIA. IMM
          should have first obtained this approval (MoEF Positive Decision). As
          previously mentioned, IMM will provide the World Bank an English
          languagecopy o f the Turkish EIA ExecutiveSummary, the EIA report, and
          any World Bank Addendum. The World Bank will provide an independent
          review and approval. IMM is not permitted to provide a sub-proiect loan
          from the World Bank project until it receives an official approval letter
         from the WorldBank.

          Alternative 111: Annex I1negativeEIA Decision/Category A

    4.4.2 Since the Turkish government has no EA documentationrequirement, IMM
          will preparean EA document inaccordance with World Bank EA policy (as
          detailed in OP 4.01 Annex B-Content of an Environmental Assessment
          Report for a Category A Project). IMM will provide the World Bank with
          an English language copy of the Turkish EIA Executive Summary and the
          full EIA. The World Bank will review and approve the document. MMI is
          not permitted to provide a sub-proiect loan .from the World Bank project
          until it receives an official approval letter from the World Bank.




                                          72

          Alternative IV: Annex I1negativeEIA Decision/Category B
          Alternative V: N o AnnedCategory B

    4.4.3 IMM send the EA documentation (PIF or EMP) to the World Bank who
          will verify that all environmentalissues have been properly identified, and
          mitigation measures and associated monitoring are well defined and
          reasonable, with responsibilities for performing these functions clearly
          identified.

          Alternative VI: N o AnnedCategory C

    4.4.5 No approvalof EA documentationi s required.

4.5 Disclosure

          Sub-projects Requiringand EIA Report (Alternatives I,11, and 111)

    4.5.1 Alternatives I and I1 have prepared an EIA in accordance with the
          Regulation.A requirement of the Regulationis for MoEF to place the EIA
          on their website. In addition, IMMwill be requiredto disclose a hard copy
          of the EIA at the Istanbuloffice ofthe MoEF, and send a letter to the World
          Bank indicating the date of the disclosure. The World Bank will deposit the
          English language EIA Executive Summary, English language EIA
          document and Addendum at the World Bank Infoshop. IMM is not
          permitted to provide a sub-project loan using World Bank funds until the
          Turkish language EIA is disclosed in Turkev and the English language
          Executive Summary, EIA document and Addendum are disclosed at the
          WorldBank Infoshop.

    4.5.2 Under Alternative 111, MoEF has no responsibility for the EA document.
          IMM will be required to disclose a hard copy of the EIA near the sub-
          project site, and send a letter to the World Bank indicating the date and
          location of the disclosure. The World Bank will deposit the English
          languageEIA at the World Bank Infoshop.MMI is not permitted toprovide
          a sub-proiect loan using World Bank funds until the Turkish language EIA
          is disclosed in Turkev and the English language Executive Summarv and
                                                      -
          Addendum are disclosed at the World Bank Infoshop.

          Alternative IV: Annex I1Negative EIA Decision/Category B

    4.5.3 Under Turkish regulationthe PIF is sent to the local government by MoEF
          who disclosesa hard copy o f the PIF near the sub-project site. Ifan EMP is
          prepared, IMMwill disclosethis document at the same location.




                                        73

            AlternativeV: N o AnnedCategory B

     4.5.4. IMMwill disclose the EMP near the subproject site.

            AlternativeVI: No AnnedCategory C

     4.5.5  N o disclosure requirements.


4.6  Conditionality

    4.6.1   For all sub-projects requiring some form of EA documentation (EIA Report,
            PIF, EMP, etc.), namely Alternatives I,11, 111, IV, and V, IMMwill insure
            that the sub-project loan agreements include a commitment to obey the
            requirements set forth by the Turkish environmental regulations, as well as
            the measures specified by IMMand/or the World Bank. IMMis expected to
            exercise due diligence to ensure the sub-project i s implemented with the
            expected attentionto good environmental management.

4.7  Supervisionand Reporting

     4.7.1  As part o f normal supervision activities, IMMwill ensure compliance with
            all environmental obligations specified in the loan agreement. IMM will
            coordinate with MoEF (Istanbul and/or Ankara offices, as appropriate) to
            ensure compliance.

     4.7.2  IMM supervision reports will include a section on environmental
            management. Inthis Section, IMMwill verify whether or not environmental
            requirementsas specified inthe loan agreements have beenfollowed. Ifthis
            i s not the case, reasons for noncompliance should be elaborated, and
            recommendations for further action to ensure future compliance. For
            situations o f noncompliance, IMM i s required to implement corrective
            measures ina timely manner.

B.   CULTURAL PROPERTY

1.   Turkish laws and practices are consistent with the World Bank safeguard policy on
     cultural property (OPN 11.03). Applicable Turkish legislation i s embodied in Law
     2863 (dated 21.07.1983) on the Protection o f Cultural and Natural Resources
     (amended with Law Amending the laws on the Protection o f Cultural and Natural
     Resources and some other laws No: 5224 dated 27.07.2004 ), the Regulation on
     Researches, Drillings, and Excavations in Relation to the Cultural and Natural
     Assets, published in the Official Gazette No. 18485 on 10.08.1994, and The
     Protection o f Cultural and Natural Resources Law (Number 2863, dated July 23,
     1983). There are no separate regulations for IstanbulMunicipality.




                                          74

2.  IstanbulMunicipality is responsible for application of these laws and regulations.
    There are two possibilities: (i) subproject located in a "designated" area, and (ii)
                                    a
    chance find.

2.1 Sub-proiect in a DesignatedArea

    2.1.1 Istanbul has six regional councils, each regional council has seven
          representatives; five from the Ministry o f Culture, two from academia and
           one from the metropolitan municipality, one from the district municipality,
           and there are also other members depending on the related subjects
           representing those agencies., and each council has identified certain
           "designated" areas within its' jurisdiction that are culturally significant. If a
           sub-project i s proposed for one o f these designated areas, an approval from
           the regional council withjurisdiction over that area is all that is needed. The
           Ministry of Culture will bring in special workers to perform the necessary
           activities in the designated area and charge Istanbul Municipality
           accordingly. Regional councils are established for different types o f cultural
           properties, thus there are councils for "city walls", "coastal areas", etc.

    2.1.2  The firm has to consult the municipality to know whether the site is in a
           designated area or not since the plans would already be approved, and there
           are maps in the municipality regarding the designated areas. If there i s a
           cultural or a natural asset in that designated area, the municipality directs
           the project developer to the related regional Board for approval. In order to
           get the approval from the Board for construction, the sponsor has to provide
           detailed projects (like restoration projects, etc). Since IMM i s the project
           owner, permitting and construction oversight o f the rehabilitatiordclosure o f
           wild dump projects, IMM should submit a plan to World Bank clearly
           identifying the safeguard measures to overcome the possible conflict o f
           interest issues and related QA/QC procedures.

2.2 Sub-proiect not within a DesignatedArea

    2.2.1 If the project i s not in a designated area, the firm applies to the Municipal
           Construction Department for the approval o f construction no approval from
           any regional council i s necessary. If by chance, an historical article i s found
           duringconstruction, the Ministry o f Culture and Tourism is informed.

    2.2.2 If construction i s conducted outside a designated area and something i s
           uncovered accidentally, then Turkish"chance find" procedures are ineffect:
           work i s stopped, the Ministry o f Culture (Department o f Museums and
           Archaeology) i s notified who in turn sends and expert to provide direction
           on how to proceed with the activity.




                                          75

      2.2.3 The EMP will include appropriate obligations in both mitigation and
             monitoring plans for construction either in a "designated area" or to address
             chance find events.

C.    NATURAL HABITATS

      IMM is responsible for parks in Istanbul and the MoEF is responsible for the
      coastal areas. There are fourteen regions in Turkey that are designated as protected
      areas. None o f these fourteen areas are within Istanbul. According to the MoEF
      there are no sensitive areas or critical habitats within the Istanbul Metropolitan
      area.

D.    INTERNATIONAL WATERWAYS

      The Government o f Turkey has no special regulations regarding projects on or
      affecting international waterways, Therefore, only World Bank safeguard policy
      OP 7.50 applies. None o f the sub-projects i s either known or suspected to be on an
      international waterway or utilizes international waters for withdrawal or discharge.

E.    INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT

Procedures for expropriation and resettlement are included in the Resettlement Policy
Framework.




                                            76

             APPENDIX A: Closure of ExistingSolid Waste DisposalSites

2.     Uncontrolled disposal o f municipal waste (garbage) at locations "out o f sight o f the
public" had been a common disposal practice in both urban and rural settings. In as much
as providing a needed public service, such disposal practices are no longer acceptable due
to public health risks and induced groundhurface water contamination. There are 28 waste
disposal sites (or `dumps') in the European side o f Istanbul within the jurisdiction o f IMM
that have been operated by the local municipalities. Proper closure and rehabilitation o f
these uncontrolled disposal sites i s a highpriority issue for IMM.

3.     The dump areas range from very small to medium sized (some hectares). The
majority o f the closed dumps were closed in 2004; but others more recently or some 8
years o f more ago. A large number o f the closed dumps have been covered but often just
the upper surface area (and not the slopes) and, as far as can be judged, mostly in a rough
manner just using locally available materials. Terrain conditions and soil conditions vary
widely. Disposal sites are found in flat, hilly and mountainous areas with superficial,
multi-layer and mountain slope dumping. A large number o f sites are adjacent to creeks or
lakes. With the often high permeability o f soil layers in the area and the fact that some o f
these lakes are used for drinking water production this issue requires careful consideration.
There is one site (Silivri Belediyesi) constructed on a thick clay layer that i s equippedwith
a simple leachate collection system. There i s no environmental data available on the
quality / contamination o f the underground, adjacent surface waters and local groundwater
systems.

4.     Project Options and Expected Impacts.           Closure o f dump sites i s expected to
reduce human health risks, mitigate adverse environmental impacts o f past waste disposal
and allow the lands to be reused. Applicable options are:

    (a) Upgrading (including environmental control measures, continuation o f operations
        and possibly environmental remediationmeasures);
    (b) Closure (closure and site rehabilitation, possibly including environmental
        remediation measures);
    (c) Removal (including site rehabilitation, possibly with environmental remediation
        measures); or
    (d) Do nothing.

5.     Decision Making Process.           In the above options site rehabilitation includes
measures to adequately (i)  prevent (further) contamination of the environment; (ii)   manage
leachate and land fill gas generation; (iii)cover, stabilize and reshape the dump area; and
(iv) prepare the site for post-closure monitoring/management and the future land-use
purpose as determined. Remediation measures may be required in case past-time waste
disposal practices have caused contamination o f soil groundwater or surface waters that
pose a risk to the environment or public health. The remediation measures should be
established in a risk assessment and as a minimum reduce the environmental and public
health risks to acceptable levels. For this purpose each waste disposal site requires



                                               77

adequate site investigations to establish ambient contarnination levels in soil, groundwater
and surface waters (sediments).

6.      Turkey, as most countries, does not have design, construction and clean-up
standards for waste disposal site closure, rehabilitation and remediation. Selection o f the
available environmental control, containment and clean-up methodologies will rely on
cost-benefit evaluation based on environmental risk assessment and administrative
decision making process (EIA Regulation) and applicable WB Safeguard Policies. Turkish
"Soil Pollution Control Regulation" as revised on 31.05.2005, i s an applicable relevant
regulation on clean uphehabilitation o f the dump sites together with the" Water Pollution
Prevention Regulation" o f 31.12.2004 and related water quality legislation. Appropriate
due diligence will be followed for public participation in decision making process as per
the Turkish EIA Regulation. Feasibility studies and design specifications will refer to
internationally recognized good practices for waste disposal site closure and rehabilitation.




                                            78

              APPENDIX B: Format for EnvironmentalManagementPlan

Pro!ect Description

7.     Present a brief description o f the subproject. include the nature o f the investment,
the location, and any characteristics of the area that are of particular interest, e.g. near a
protected area, area of cultural, historical, religious interest etc. also, very briefly describe
the general land use characteristics (farming, small industryetc.), and the location(s) ofthe
nearestpopulation centers.

1.      MITIGATION PLAN

     Phase        Issue       Mitigating           cost of        Responsibility*     Start Date End
                               Measure            Mitigation                                     Date
                                               (IfSubstantial)
Construction
(Rehabilitation/
remediation
works)



Operation




Post-Closure
(Decommissioni
ng)




                                               79

         2.     MONITORING PLAN

  Phase       What       Where                         When          Monitoring      Responsibility Start End
            parameter     is the                  is the parameter      cost                        Date  Date
             is to be                             to be monitored-  What is the cost
            monitored              be monitored     frequency of   of equipment or
                 7     monitored      type o f    measurement or      contractor
                                    monitoring       continuous?      charges to
                                    equipment?                        perform
                                                                     monitoring
Constructi
    on
(Rehabilit
  ation I
remediatio
 n works)
Operation


   Post-
 Closure
(Decommi
 ssioning)




          3.      INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING

                  1. Equipment Purchases(Tabular Presentation Preferred)

          List:
          0  Type o f equipment
          0  Number ofUnits
          0  Unitcost
          0  Total Cost
          0  Local or International Purchase

                  2. Training/StudyTours

          List:
          0  Type of Training (Mitigation, Monitoring, EnvironmentalManagement, Other)
          0  Number of Students
                      Current and Future Organizational Unit inWhich They Work or Current and
                      FutureTitle/Job Description
          0   Duration o f Training
          0   Start Date/End Date (for each student)
          0   Venue of Training (Domestic or Abroad)
          0   Instituteor Organization to Provide Training
          0   Cost (Local and Foreign)



                                                       80

       3. Consultant Services

   Type o f Service
   Terms of Reference
0  Justification
   cost

       4. Special Studies

0  Justification
0  Terms of Reference
   cost

4.     SCHEDULE

Present (preferably in Chart Form) start dates and finishdates for:

        Mitigation Activities
    0   Monitoring Activities
    0   Training Activities

5.     INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

A narrative discussion supported by organizational charts detailing:

       0    Institutional responsibilities and procedures for mitigation and monitoring and
            how they are linked for environmental management
       0    Environmental information flow (reporting-from       who and to who and how
            often)
       0    Decision making chain o f command for environmental management (to take
            action, to authorize expenditures, to shut down, etc.)

Inshort, how is all the monitoring data going to be usedto maintain sound environmental
performance-who       collects the data, who analyzes it, who prepares reports, who are the
reports sent to and how often, and who does that person send it to, or what does hehhe do
with the information-who      has the authority to spend, shutdown, change operations etc.

6.     CONSULTATIONWITH LOCAL NGOSAND PROJECT-AFFECTED
GROUPS

       Provide documentation o f the following:


        0   Manner in which notification of the consultation was announced: media(s)
            used, date(s), description or copy o fthe announcement
        0   Date(s) consultation(s) was (were) held


                                               81

0 Location(s) where consultation(s) was (were) held
0 Who was invited
       Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail
       numbedaddress(home and/or office)
0 Who attended
       Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail
       numberladdress(home and/or office)
0 Meeting Program/Schedule
        What is to be presentedand by whom
0 Summary Meeting Minutes (Comments, Questions and Response by
  Presenters)
0 List o f decisions reached, and any actions agreed upon with schedules and
  deadlines and responsibilities.




                                   82

                 m
                 00




NOIL3flHLSN03


rc
0

a    0  a

G
0.
2
s?
W




4
0
Y
Y
C
e,

.-2>C
rc
w
0

.-.-2
Y
i?
v1
C

00
00

c
iYm
a

                         0
                         m

      m
      0
      3
      .-3Ce
      s
      Y




D
e,         3la  - 0Lc
S

      8
      U
      v)




     0
     9

     Y
     0

     3
     L

     8
     5s
     % E
 a 5 g
  60)n o
     a,.=
 3." E
I    .Y   h.




i       cx
        ce

D
e,
s




      NOIL3nXLSN03

rr
0

         Annex 10.2 LandAcquisitionand ResettlementPolicyFramework

8.     The Istanbul Municipal InfrastructureProject will have four components:

(ii) Environmentalmanagement:
            a. Closure o f existing landfills and illegal dump sites;
            b. Preparation of annual BusinessPlanfor solid waste services; and
            c. Financing shipping waste collection and emergency response vessels.

(ii) Municipalservicesandinfrastructure:
            a. Preparinga detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems;
            b. Preparing a Municipal InfrastructureRiskMitigationPlan;
            c. Retrofitting selected key buildings, fire stations and municipal
                infrastructure; and
            d. Providing neededequipment.

(iii) Piloturbantransformationprogram:
            c. Pilot urban transformation feasibility studies; and
            a. Selected priority investmentsassociated with urban transformation.

(iv)   Engineering services and audits:
            a. Design studies, tender documents, review o f strengthening and other
                design, surveys and other studies; and
            b. External audits o fproject accounts

Possible LandAcquisitionor ResettlementRequirements

9.     The project is not expected to require the acquisition or expropriation o f private
land, as all anticipated investments will take place on public land. Similarly, as the work
should be carried out on existing sites, there should be no need to access public land that
is informally occupied. During implementation, however, the IMM may request the
project to fund unforeseen investments for which the municipality may need to acquire
private land or regain possession o f public land that i s either leased to a private party or
informally occupied and used by a private party. To maintain flexibility and enable the
Bank to respond positively to such requests, the IMM has prepared this Policy
Framework to ensure compliance with the Bank's Operational Policy 4.12, Involuntary
Resettlement.

Land AcquisitionProcess

10.     The process of constructinga public facility goes through three main steps.

11.     The first step in the process i s to obtain the approval o f the district municipality
council and be integrated into the municipal land use plan. Consideration by the council
and entry into the plan are both preceded by public announcements in newspapers and
posting in the municipality office, a public planning meeting, and a 60-day period during



                                              94

which the public i s invited to comment. If substantive negative feedback i s obtained, the
decision i s reviewed by the municipality council and either approved again or denied.

12.     The second step occurs on the Metropolitan Municipality level, where the council
must grant approval and the land use planmust be changed to integrate the facility. Both
actions are also preceded by similar notifications, public meetings and feedback period.
Ifthe responseis negative, the proposalis submittedto the council for re-consideration.

13.     After the site proposal completes the first two steps, documentation is prepared to
request a location permit. In addition to the decisions and confirmation that the site i s
entered into the respective plans, the documentation consists o f feasibility studies;
preliminary design; environmental assessment; ownership status; estimated land cost
replacement value o f above ground assets, based on a professional valuation; estimated
construction and supervision cost; and confirmation that adequate funds are available..
Once the locationpermit i s issued, the land can be acquired.

Land Ownership and Use Status

14.     Land ownership status can include one or more o f four scenarios:

a)      Owned by the municipality and either vacant or used by the municipality, a
municipal company or a private entity under a lease or informal arrangement;
b)       Owned by the Treasury or other state agency and either vacant or used by the
owner;
c)       Owned by the state or state agency or enterprise and used by another party
through a lease or informal arrangement;
d)      private land either used by the owner or another private individual or enterprise or
used informally by a third party through a lease or informal arrangement.

15.      Each scenario has different implications for entitlements and action which are
noted briefly below and inthe "Entitlement Matrix," attached as Annex A.

16.      Municipal Ownership. The land i s owned and used by the municipality; the land
i s transferred to the solid waste management office. If the land i s used by a third party
under a lease, the Metropolitan Municipality adheres the conditions o f the lease, which
may or may not include the obligation to transfer the activity to another site. If the land
i s used informally, the Metropolitan Municipality compensates the user for assets that are
lost and assists the user to relocate the activity.

17.      Ownership and Use by the Treasury or Other State Entity. If the land i s owned
and used by the State or one of its agencies, the solid waste management office negotiates
with the ownerhser to transfer the land to the Metropolitan Municipality. Depending on
circumstances, the land will be transferred to the Metropolitan Municipality without cost
or leased or sold to the Metropolitan Municipality after compensating the user for lost
assets.




                                               95

18.      Ownership by the Treasury or Other State Entity and Used by a Third Party. If
the land is leased to a third party, the owner will vacate the land and transfer or lease it to
the Metropolitan Municipality, adhering to the conditions ofthe lease, which may or may
not require compensation for lost assets or disruptions in use.         If the land is used
informally, the owner will vacate the land, compensating the user for lost assets, and
assist the user to find another suitable location.

19.      Private Ownership. Ifthe land i s privately owned, the Metropolitan Municipality
will commission a property assessment and contact the owner giving notification that the
land i s needed for the facility. The Metropolitan Municipality will then invite the owner
to negotiate for purchase, based on the assessment. The objective o f negotiation is to
reach an agreement on the value o f the land, assets, loss o f income (if relevant) due to
relocation, and the cost o f relocation and re-establishment.         The owner must be
compensated infull before work can begin.

Expropriation

20.      Ifnegotiation fails, the Metropolitan Municipality can request the court to issue
an expropriation order, documenting the failure to reach a settlement through negotiation.
The court will commission an independent assessment prior to issuing the order and
setting the price. When the order i s issued, the Metropolitan Municipality compensates
the owner at the level set by the court and obtains title. Work cannot commence before
the payment i s made in full.

21.      If the owner is not satisfied by the court decision, he or she can appeal the
financial settlement, but cannot reverse the expropriation order.

22.      Although the Metropolitan Municipality has the authority to request and obtain an
expropriation order, expropriation inevitably generates strong public criticism and thus it
i s rarely used.

Responsibility

23,      The Metropolitan Municipality i s ultimately responsible for land acquisition and
expropriation. The process i s managed by the office that will use the land, however, in
collaboration with the municipal cadastre office.

Compliance with OD 4.12

24.      The government       recently changed the expropriation law to authorize
compensation to informal and illegal land users for the assets they lose when the
government reasserts control over public land. The new legislation essentially closed the
only significant gap between Turkish laws and World Bank policies relating to land
acquisition and expropriation. Nonetheless, to ensure compliance with OP 4.12, the
Metropolitan Municipality will notify the Bank of any plans to acquire private land or to
clear informally occupied public land, for facilities funded through the project and will
prepare a brief land acquisition plan for each investment. The plan should be submitted



                                               96

to the Bank for review and no objection at the time the municipality requests a location
permit. The report should provide details about the amount, ownership status and use
status o f public and private land to be acquired for project investments, documenting the
action taken to that point as well as any public comments received along the way.

25.     In addition to following regular Turkish land acquisition procedures, the
municipality will conduct an open public hearing prior to submitting the request for a
location permit. The hearing should be announced in newspapers and other media at
least two weeks before the event, and announcements should be posted in prominent
places in the vicinity of the proposed site. The municipality will record minutes o f the
meeting that describes when and where the meeting was announced, who was invited,
who attended (with an address or telephone number for further contact) and includes all
comments received during and prior to the hearing. The documentation presented to the
Bank will include the minutes o f the hearing with a statement from the municipality
indicating the actions that will be taken inresponse to the comments received.

Disclosure

26.     This Policy Framework was disclosed in-country by IMMon March 23, 2007




                                             97

           EntitlementMatrix: IstanbulMunicipalInfrastructureProject

Investment Ownership    Use Status       Final Status  Transfer      Compensation       Principles
           Status                                      Mechanism
New        Municipality Vacant           Transfer to   Simple        None
Transfer                                 User          Transfer
Station                 Leasedto         Vacate,       Terminate     Lost Assets,       4ssets at Full
                        Private User     Transfer to   Lease,        RelocationCost,    Replacement
                                         User          Transfer      Temporary          Cost
                                                                     Income Loss,
                                                                     Depending on
                                                                     Lease Provisions
                        Informal/Illegal Vacate,       Relocate,     Lost Assets,       Assets at Full
                        Use              Transfer to   Transfer to   RelocationCost     Replacement
                                         User          User                             cost
           Treasury,    Vacant           Transfer to   Transfer or   Land, Subject to
           other                         Municipality/ Purchase      Negotiation
           Government                    User                        between Parties
           Entity       Leased to        Vacate,       Terminate     Land, Subject to   Assets at Full
                        Private User     Transfer to   Lease,        Negotiation; Lost  Replacement
                                         Municipality/ Transfer      Assets,            cost
                                         User                        RelocationCost,
                                                                     Temporary
                                                                     Income Loss,
                                                                     Dependingon
                                                                     Lease Provisions
                        Informal/Illegal Vacate,       Relocate,     Land, Subject to   Assets at Full
                        Use              Transfer to   Transfer to   Negotiation; Lost  Replacement
                                         Municipality1 Municipality/  Assets,           cost
                                         User          User           RelocationCost
                                                                     to User
           Private      Vacant           Ownership by  Purchase and   Land, Subject to  Full
                                         Municipality/ Transfer      Negotiation or     Replacement
                                         User                         Expropriation, if Cost (Market
                                                                     Negotiations Fail  Value)
                        Residential      Ownership by  Relocate,      Land, and Above   Full
                                         Municipality/ Purchase and   Ground Assets,    Replacement
                                         User          Transfer       RelocationCosts,  Cost (Market
                                                                      Subject to        Value)
                                                                     Negotiation or
                                                                      Expropriation if
                                                                      Negotiatons Fail
                        Commercial       Ownership by  Relocate,      Land and Above    Full
                                         Municipality/ Purchase and   Ground Assets,    Replacement
                                         User          Transfer       RelocationCosts,  Cost (Market
                                                                      Temporary         Value)
                                                                      Income Loss,
                                                                      Subject to
                                                                      Negotiations or
                                                                      Expropriation, if
                                                                      Negotiatons Fail




                                                98

                     Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision



                                                Planned            Actual
PCN review                                    03/30/2006         04/03/2006
InitialPID to PIC                             04/20/2006         04/18/2006
Initial ISDS to PIC                           04/20/2006         04/18/2006
Appraisal                                     02/22/2007         04/04/2007
Negotiations                                  03/29/2007         04119/2007
Board/RVP approval                            04/26/2007         06128/2007
Planned date o f effectiveness                09/14/2007         09/14/2007
Planned date o f mid-termreview               02/02/2009         03/18/2009
Planned closing date                          01/3 1/2012        01/31/2012

Key institutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:
Metropolitan Municipality o f Istanbul (IMM); Treasury and SPO.

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Title                  Unit
SeemaManghee                   Task Team Leader                   ECSSD
Wael Zakout                    Lead Operations Officer           ECSSD
IbrahimSirer                   Senior Engineer and                ECSPS
                               Procurement Specialist
Felix Jakob                    Institutional Specialist           ECSSD
BernardBaratz                  Environmental Specialist          EASEG
StanleyN.Peabody               Social Specialist                  ECSSD
Alptekin Orhon                 Operations Officer                 ECSSD
Frank Van Woerden              Senior Environmental               ECSSD
                               Specialist
Vesna Francic                  Operations Officer                 ECSSD
Seda Aroymak                    Senior Financial                  ECSPS
                               Management Specialist
UlkerKaramullaoglu             Program Assistant                  ECCU6
Del hine Hamilton                                                 ECSSD


Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
1. Bank resources:      $258,752.85
2. Trust funds:         NA
3. Total:               $258,752.85

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:
 1. Remaining costs to approval: $6,000
2. Estimated annual supervisioncost:$ 125,000 per FY



                                             99

                    Annex 12: Documents in the ProjectFile


Report on the Activities, Functions and Structure o f Istanbul Metropolitan Planning
and Design Center, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, 2006

Report on Istanbul Province Environmental Plan, Istanbul Metropolitan Planning and
Design Center, IstanbulMay 2006

Zeytinburnu Urban Regeneration Pilot Project (Strategy and Action Plan), Istanbul
Metropolitan Municipality

Budgetso f IstanbulMetropolitan Municipality, 2003-2006

IstanbulMetropolitan Municipality Strategic Plan (2007-20 11)

Financial Information o f Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, 2006

Remedial Actions inthe Aftermath o f the 1999 Turkey Earthquakes,
E. Uckan, M.Erdik, U.Celep, N.Apaydin and N. Aydinoglu, Bogazici University,
August 2003

Seismic Microzonation for Municipalities, Executive Summary, Ministry o f Public
Works and Settlement, DRM, February 2004

Earthquake Risk Assessment for Istanbul Metropolitan Area, Bosporus University,
May 2002

The Study on A Disaster PreventiodMitigation Basic Plan in Istanbul including
Seismic Microzonation inthe Republic o f Turkey, IstanbulMetropolitan Municipality,
JICA, December 2002

Istanbul Gas Distribution Company (IGDAS) Annual Report, 2005

Istanbul Sea Vessels Company (IDO) Annual Report 2005

Industrial Waste Feasibility Study, Gesselschaft fur Chemischen und Techniscen
Umweltschuts mbH (Company            for  Chemical and Technical Environmental
Protection,Ltd.), November 2005

Report on ISTAC, 2006

Information on Istanbul Solid Waste Sites, 2006




                                        100

                                       Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits


                                                                                                                   Differencebetween
                                                                                                                   expectedand actual
                                                         Original Amount in US$Millions                              disbursements

Project ID   FY     Purpose                           JBRD        IDA       SF       GEF      Cancel   Undisb     Orig      Frm Rev'd
PO96400      2006   ECSEEAPL #3 (TURKEY)              I50 00       0 00      0 00     0.00      0 00    15820      -040         0 00
PO96262      2006   AVIAN FLU   - TR                    34 40      0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00     33 82      0 00        0 00
PO93765      2006   GAS SECT DEVT                     325 00       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    324 19     -081         0 00
PO94176      2005   ECSEEAPL #2 (TURKEY) (CRL)          66 00      0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00     61 38      3 85        0 00
PO94167      2005   PSSP 2                            465 40       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    40508      3531         0 00
PO93568      2005   EFIL 3                            305 00       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    24468     -32 58         0 00
PO77328      2005   RAIL RESTRUCT                     I84 70       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    176 84      0 00         0 00
PO66149      2005   SEC EDUC                          104 00       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    100 74      125         0 00
PO81880      2005   MUNICIPAL SERVICES                275 00       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    255 85      0 00         0 00
PO78359      2005   SEISMIC RISK MITIGATION           400 00       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    36630      3795          0 00
PO75094      2004   WATERSHED REHAB (GEF)                0 00      0 00      0 00      7.00     0 00      6 16      0 75         0 00
PO82801      2004   EFIL 2                            303 I O      0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00     31 32   -14035          0 00
PO82996      2004   PFPSAL 3                          1,000 00     0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    500 00      0 00         0 00
PO74053      2004   HEALTH TRANSIT (APL # 1)            60 61      0 00      0 00      0.00     0 30     55 17     34 I O        0 24
PO72480      2004   RENEWENERGY                       202 03       0 00      0 00      0.00     101     17264      2362          0 00
PO70950      2004   ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHAB            20 00      0 00      0 00      0.00     4 30     14 60      107          0 00
PO59872      2003   BASIC ED 2 (APL #2)               300 00       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    277 71    27631       240 71
PO74408      2002   SRMP                              500 00       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00     3929      3929        -27 91
PO70286      2002   ARIP                              600 00       0 00      0 00      0.00     0 00    24426     24426       140 44
PO68368      2000   MARMARA EARTHQUAKE EMG            505 00       0 00      0 00      0.00    23 63    211 61    23665         92 43
                    RECON
PO44175      2000   BlODlVMTRL RES MGMT (GEF)            0 00      0 00      0 00      8.19     0 00      3 28      3 28         0 47
PO48852      1998   NAT'L TRNSM GRID                  270 00       0 00      0 00      0.00    34 60     7359     108 19        16 70

                                               Total: 6,070.24     0.00      0.00     15.19    63.84   3,756.71   871.74      463.08




                                                  STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                               Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                                  InMillions ofUSDollars


                                                           Committed                                  Disbursed

                                                         IFC                                        IFC
         FY Approval   Company                Loan      Equity     Quasi     Partic.   Loan        Eauitv     Quasi      Partic

         2005          Acibadem               20.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      20.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
         1996          Arcelik                7.00        0.00       0.00       0.00       7.00      0.00      0.00        0.00
         2001          Arcelik                30.87       0.00       0.00       8.56      30.87      0.00      0.00        8.56
         2005          Arcelik                95.34       0.00       0.00      95.34      95.34      0.00      0.00       95.34
         2000          Arcelik LG Klima       5.27        0.00       0.00       0.00       5.27      0.00      0.00        0.00
         2002          Assan                  20.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      20.00      0.00      0.00        0.00
         2005          Assan                  20.00       0.00      10.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00        0.00




                                                              101

2002    Atilim             4.88    0 00    0 00    0 00     4 88     0 00   0 00    0 00
2000    Banvit             8.33     5 00   0 00    0 00     8 33     5 00   0 00    0 00
2002    Beko               27.79    0 00   0 00   I 7 26  27 79      0 00   0 00   17 26
2001    Bilgi              7.00     0 00   0 00    0 00     7 00     0 00   0 00    0 00
2006    Bilgi              15.00    0 00   0 00    0 00     0 00     0 00   0 00    0 00
1994    Borcelik           0.00     5 83   0 00    0 00     0 00     5 83   0 00    0 00
1996    Borcelik           0.00     0 61   0 00    0 00     0 00     0 61   0 00    0 00
1997    Borcelik           7.27     3 21   0 00    0 00     1 2 7    3 21   0 00    0 00
2004    BorusanHolding     30.00    0 00   7 85    0 00   30 00      0 00   7 85    0 00
1994    CBS Holding        3.50     0 00   0 00    0 00     3 50     0 00   0 00    0 00
1990    Conrad             3.59     0 00   0 63    0 00     3 59     0 00   0 63    0 00
2002    Conrad             2.45     0 00   0 00    0 00     2 45     0 00   0 00    0 00
2002    EKS                8.84     0 00   0 00     0 00    8 84     0 00   0 00    0 00
2004    Ege                10.00    0 00   0 00     8 00  10 00      0 00   0 00    8 00
1995    Entek              17.00    0 00   0 00    6 63   17 00      0 00   0 00    6 63
1999    Finansbank         1.11     0 00   0 00     0 00     1 I 1   0 00   0 00    0 00
2004    Garanti Leasing    10.00    0 00   0 00    0 00   10 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
1999    GumussuyuKap       4.00     0 00   3 38    0 00     4 00     0 00   3 38    0 00
2001    Gunkol             4.18     0 00   0 00     0 00    4 18     0 00   0 00    0 00
1998    IndoramaIplik      3.75     0 00   0 00    0 00     3 75     0 00   0 00    0 00
2005    Intercity          15.00    5 00   0 00   27 75    15 00     5 00   0 00   27 75
1998    lpek Paper         5.14     0 00   5 00     0 00    5 14     0 00    5 00   0 00
2002    lpek Paper         6.67     0 00   0 00    0 00     6 67     0 00   0 00    0 00
1990    KepezElektrik      0.81     0 00   0 00     0 00    0 81     0 00   0 00    0 00
I988    Kim                15.35    0 00   0 00     0 00    9 49     0 00   0 00    0 00
1990    Kiris              10.36    0 00   0 00    0 00     6 12     0 00   0 00    0 00
2004    Koclease           30.00    0 00   0 00     0 00  30 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
1991    Kula               5.01     0 00   0 00     0 00    4 65     0 00   0 00    0 00
2003    MESA Group         11.00    0 00   0 00    0 00   11 00      0 00   0 00    0 00
2004    MeteksanSistem     0.00     0 00   8 50     0 00    0 00     0 00   8 50    0 00
2002    Mil11Re            50.00    0 00   0 00     0 00    0 00     0 00   0 00    0 00
2006    Mil11Re            50.00    0 00   0 00     0 00    0 00     0 00   0 00    0 00
1998    Modern Karton      3.64     0 00   0 00     0 00    3 64     0 00   0 00    0 00
2002    Modern Karton      6.67     0 00   0 00     0 00    6 67     0 00   0 00    0 00
2005    Modern Karton      40.00    0 00   0 00     0 00    0 00     0 00   0 00    0 00
1991    NASCO              3.95     0 00   0 00     138     3 95     0 00   0 00    138
2004    OPET               25.00    0 00   0 00   40 00    I 6 67    0 00   0 00   40 00
2004    Oyak Bank          44.44    0 00   0 00     0 00  44 44      0 00   0 00    0 00
2005    PALEN              2.00     0 00   0 00     0 00    2 00     0 00   0 00    0 00
2005    PALGAZ             10.00    0 00   0 00     0 00    5 00     0 00   0 00    0 00
I998    Pinar ET           2.36     0 00   0 00     0 00    2 36     0 00   0 00    0 00
2000    Pinar SUT          9.58     0 00   0 00     0 00    6 19     0 00   0 00    0 00
1999    SAKoSa             7.3I     0 00   6 09     3 17    7 31     0 00   6 09    3 17
1990    Silkar Turizm      1.10     0 00   0 00     134      1 I O   0 00   0 00    134
2002    Sise ve Cam        5.83     0 00   0 00     0 00    5 83     0 00   0 00    0 00
2003    Sise ve Cam        36.47    0 00   1636   28 19   36 47      0 00  16 36   28 79
2002    Soktas             1.50     0 00   0 00     0 00     150     0 00   0 00    0 00
2005    TSKB               0.00     0 00   50 00    0 00    0 00     0 00  50 00    0 00
1989    Trakya Cam         0.00     0 00    0 03    0 00    0 00     0 00   0 03    0 00



                                        102

1996    Trakya Cam                  0.00          0.01      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.01       0.00    0.00
1999    Trakya Cam                   0.00         0.02      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.02       0.00    0.00
2002    Turk Ekon Bank               8.89          0.00    15.00    0.00       8.89    0.00      15.00    0.00
2005    Turk EkonBank                0.00          0.00    50.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      50.00    0.00
2001    Turkish PEF                  0.00          9.59     0.00     0.00      0.00    2.82       0.00    0.00
1999    Unye Cement                 2.53           0.00     0.00    0.00      2.53     0.00       0.00    0.00
1999    Uzel                         1.64          0.00     0.00    4.40       7.64    0.00       0.00    4.40
1998    Viking                       6.25          0.00     0.00     0.00      6.25    0.00       0.00    0.00
2005    YUCE                         4.53          0.00     0.00     0.00      3.50    0.00       0.00    0.00

                   Total portfolio:  796.20       29.27   172.84   242.62    592.99   22.50      I62.84  242.62




                                                              Approvals Pending Commitment
        FY Approval     Company                           Loan      Equity      Quasi     Partic.
        2005            Avea                            0 12         0 00        0 00      0 30
        2001            Akbank                          0 03         0 00        0 00      0 00
        2002            TEB 111                         0 00         0 00        0 00      0 05
        2005            Assan IV                        0 00         0 00        0 00      0 03
        2002            Milli Reasurans                 0 00         0 01        0 00      0 00
        2004            Akbank BLoan Inc                0 00         0 00        0 00      0 02

                              Total oendina colMPtment:    0.15      0 01        0 00      0.40




                                                       103

                                                 Annex 14: Country at a Glance



                                                                          Europe &
Key Develapment Indicators                                                 Cen:ral
                                                                              Asia              Age distribution. 2005
/ZP05]                                                                                                                          *era6
Powlawn nd-year in l m s i                                                     473
                                                                            24.238
                                                                                0 1
                                                                                64

GNI <&la$ -lethod JS4 01 w s                                                 1045
G l l pe.capi'a Ma3 rwhw U55i                                               4 113
GN pee capita PPP ~n!emaiic~siE                                              Q 142

GDP growl"     4 %                                                             e o
GCP per i q n a gmw:h                                                           6 0

[mom recenresrimare, 2000-2005]
                                                                                             I
Poveny heamwat ratio at 51 a .?ai/PPF, %'                                         2
Pcueny headwarn mi0 at S? a cay I ~ P P'6:.                                     16             Under-5 mortalityrate (per 1.0001
Liteexpaancy at blthiyears                                                      OB
Infantmunafly (per t 060 ive births                                             28              ' E 3 7
Child malnutnlim i'. of chraren under 51                                          5

Ad,i literacy male I% af ages 15 and older                                      QR
Ad- 1literacy cerale 1'. of ages 15 and older                                   36
Grass w m c y e m niemL male       of age grwpi                                3D5
Grcss viriwy enrc lie-1 fetrale I"* of age ~ ~ C J P I                         '02

                                                                                E1
                                                                                55



Met Aid Flows                                           f960     1990        2000    2005'
                                                                                             I
ivss m~llona!
Net ODA and oficial aid                                   P53   1 ?OF          327     257     Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (9n)
Top 3 donors 'M ~~4
  Spain                                                               a          4       50
  lustra                                                   27         8         1 1      20
  Fqnw                                                     33       e5            8      11

A d i a o o C > V i                                        1 3      ? e        0:        3.1
Aia per capita JSS                                         21       2:            5        4


Long-Term Econoimic TI ends

Consumer vitrs iannualq- change                         110.2    50 3         54 R       6 1
GDP imptic7 clelalcacanwal '.channget                    88.1    i H2         4FI D      5 4

Ex&ange rare 'annual avenge bialper US$'                 73.8
Terms of trade index I2000   1Oil I                            ?,W6a
                                                           71      103
                                                                                                  1980-90      1930-2001)     2000-05
                                                                                                        (average Jnfldd &7#& ';)
Powlaton mid-year im I m s i                                 5   56 2                                   -,
                                                                                                        * 3            1 8         1 5
GOP iUSS millmsi                                      i o44
                                                          $03  IW 842                                   5 3            3 8         5 2
                                                                   !?L d GDP,
                                                         26.4                                                          1 1
                                                         2 1
                                                           -      1E.3        1 5 4   !l.P              1   .:                     1.4
                                                             1
                                                            .L   2B.C         26.3    23.7              7 1            4. I       4 8
                                                         I 4 3    t O . 5      15 7    ",C              7 -e.v         4.$        5 0
                                                         51 4     E 1.E.      594    M.5                4 f            4.0        5 1
                                                         77 0    c.0.i        ca.9    55,'                             !.C        d.2
                                                                                                                                 -C.?
                                                         la.?
                                                         11 6     1 l . i     14 1    '3,'                             4.c
                                                                 14.5         24 6    24.2                             f.0       11.6

                                                           *:-
                                                            .-    13.3        24.0    27.4                           ' 1 . i     1 1 i
                                                         11 0     !?.e        31.6    34.0                           ;1.0        12 8
                                                         15.8    24.1         20.2    $6.4




                                                                         104

Balance of Payments and Ttade                          2000        2005
                                                                                Governance indicates. ZOO0 and 2004
IUS5 mMtonsi
Tob!merchand31 expom (fob                            33-21      76.E'i
Total mrrciiand 3e irrpon icif:                       M,X3 1'6773                 vow ana axamaetiw
tiet trade in pods 3nd sermes                        -105.21   .18Q59

Workers renitnancesana
  cmip+nsaion c ienpsyees ireoetpts                    4520         a51

Currenr azcount balance                               -Y81&    4 3 1 5 1
  as a *\ of GDP                                         -4e        4 4

Rrs~ru;es   mJuarng@Id                               33 b54     88.748

Genetal Government Finance (excluding Regulatory Institutions)

(% of GOPI
Revenue                                                  37 e      41 5
  Tax'evenue                                             24 4      24 8
Expendture an?Net Lwding                                 50 0       43 4

Over~isurplusmfct:                                                          Technology and Infrastructui e                     2084
                                                       -12   1      -1 9
                                                                            PJWd roads 1'.   of tow i                          4' 
Highest trfrgina lax rale I**'                                              Fixeo Ihr and mob e pnone
  lroiu~:d                                                 45        40       sdscribe- !per 1 OD0 people                       :E.,
  Corporare                                                M         30     Hgli technoogy erpons
                                                                              l e i of manufauurw e x ~ ~ i l s i                2 3
External Debt and Resource Flows
                                                                            Environnient
Iwss   mrlironsl
Total debt oursrandng w4 oisturseo                   118.533   ? i o 5e4    Agrcuitural land IS, of l a d areal                   5.1
T ~ t aa! m K N C ~                                   :?.E77    36.P41      Forest area  I% cf land area :&l:3 3 5
                                                                                                                 3nd            13 2
HlPC and MDRI debt relie6 exl;reaed flow                    -          -    Nahonally ptecied areas "..of land area               iet

TobI dett P> of GDP                                      58 5      58 3     Fremealer resourcesper capita i:a      ne$ersl    3 165
Total dm1S    ~ N
                c e 1'8. of exponr                       42 8       38 P    Frrulwaler wilhcrawali'. of tnlwnal rexlwws        16 5

Foreign d i w irvesmient inei nflcwst                    a92      9 &05     C02 en ssions per cap :a IIY~                       3 0
Porfoiio rqui:y tne? nfnr,sl                             cg+      5 668
                                                                            GDP per unitof energy use

   3omposit3on of total external debt. 2004                                  !2000 PJ5 S per kg ci oil quivaienvt               6 9

                                                                            Energy use ver capma ikg of oil ewivalen'i        f 117


                                                                            World Bairk Group portfolio                        2W5

                                                                            (WSI mdkvnsJ

                                                                            IERD
                                                                             Tcrial deb! outstanding ana dssbursed            5 . a z
                                                                              Dnbursemenrs                                      4dl
                                                                              Principal repayrnenls                             355
                                                                              Inierert payments                                 248

                                                                            IRA
                                                                             -ma1 debt outstanding ano d sbursed                  7 i
                                                                              Dsbursemenis                                          0
Private Sector Developnient                             2000       2005      -01~1 debt sewice                                      n

Time re:utred to start a 5us1*ess iaays                                e    IFc lbCJi PJO
c3Sl     3-T a OJ510+55     '+of Gf.(l per Cdpst3I          --      27 7     -&A disbursedand ouir!andlq pr(i0lic             1 G'Z
Tine reou red to regIter orcpeay 'saysI                     -          u        ofvach IFC o m mcaun):                          774
                                                                              D sbui-semenis br IFC own ao:ounl                 176
Rankeda5 3 m a pcanstrain: tc busre55                                         Portfo~osales prwymnrs md
  1%  sfmanagerswrvtyd who agreed                                               repaymentsfcr IFC macwun!                       f09
    T w rates                                                       37 8
    Macroeconemitc nflabi :y                                        340     kl GA
                                                                              Gmss erposure                                     '35
Stock market cap1i3zamn 1% of GOD                        3 5 5     4 4 5      New guarantees                                        3
Gank bnnches {per 100 WOO peoples                                    8 5




                                                                        105

r4iIIet ir iiIIm O w eIopmeent cioaIs                                                                                              Turkey



                                                                                                            Turkey


Goal 1: halve the rates tor $1 a dar poverty and malnutritior                                 1990         199s          2000       2004
 Poverty headcourt rata a: $1 a day-iPpo Y of pow abcni                                                     2 3            e:        34
 Fcveny headccuir rate ai natonal powen). h e I % of pcpwlawnl                                             28 3                     2'0
 Share oi nwme or mstmpiion to ?hepoorest qwrt t I%                                                                                  5 3
 Prevalenceof malnuIntLon 1%   of duiaren under 51                                                           10             0          4

Goal 2: ensure that children are able to complete primary schoolin(
                                                                                               89                                     89
 Primarycompletion rate{ 'jof irievant age gmup;
 Primarysabool enrcll-nenl {net,' i t
                                                                                               30                                     8a
 Secondary schcc enrollnent igross 46;                                                         48                         7%          79
 "ouili Meraw 'ate 1-4 cf c-ple  ages 15-24'                                                    93                                    oa

Goal 3: eliminate gender disparity in education and empowef women
 Palic ofg4s to buys r prniary and se:ciaar{ edJtation I%:                                     81                          85         80
 $+one- eiip 'qec m t-e noragnxii:urai sexor 1% of non                                                       17            18         Z I
 PropoAcr cf sears he d oy done- !n na:iona par anern                                           151           2              4         4

Goal 4: reduce unbr-5 mortality by rruo-thirds
 Under4 mortaItyrate iper 1 000:                                                                82           63            44         32
 lifanr mcnal;y rale lper 1030 IN* btsths)                                                      67           52            38         ?a
 Measfesimmmzahcn tpmp~rtanof one-year dds mniufisee. %                                         78           65            E8         81

Goal 5: reduce maternal mortalftyby Lhree.fourths
 hlatenal mcnaliry ratio Inodeled est                                                                                      70
 6ir.h~attmded by sk e$ health staff                                                                         76            8'         83

Goal 6: halt and begin to reverse the sgread of HlVlAlDS and other major disease:

                                                                                               63                          64         71
                                                                                                49                                    22
                                                                                                                                        3

Goal 7: halve the proportron of people without sustainable awes5 to basic need!
 I.ccess :o an nipwee wxter scuw I%of pceulat OF I                                              85                                    88
 4c:ess :D ms"ov1s: sanmtmn facilities14. 04 ~opulation:                                      12 e
                                                                                                85                                    82
 Forss: area io*of ma 1300 areal                                                                                          13 1      13 2
 Naimnsllyproreckd &rea5 ('* of total and area:                                                                                       . a
 CO: mii551on5lnieiric tons per capmi                                                          2 6          2 2           3 3        3 0
 GCP per init of wergy use imnsran' 2000 PPP S per kg of c eauiva rnti                         5 8          5' d          .I
                                                                                                                           6 7       6 0

Goal 8: develop a global padnership for development
 F xed line ana moblie phwe subscribers ,per    003 people,                                    123          22 1          512        75 1
 Internet users ipee 1 000 peoFIe!                                                               0             1           A.
                                                                                                                           J(        142
 Personal ~omoulersiper 1 D@OpecpFI                                                              5            15           3?         52
 You!h unemployment14;06 !DWI abor force ages 75-24;                                           190          15 d          13 1       127


   Education indicators (%I                           Measles immunization (% of 1-year olds)    1 ICT indicators (per taoo people)

    'X,




                                                                      106

Annex 15: Map




   107


                                                                                                                                                                               TURKEY

                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS*

                                                                                                                                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                                    TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                     MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                     RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES*
          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                           *Province names are the same as their capitals.


                     26E                          28E                              30E                                   32E                          34E                           36E                           38E                                                                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RUSSIAN FEDERATION
             BULGARIA
             BULGARIA
                                                                                                                                      Black Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                       0     50    100    150    200 Kilometers

                                        To
                                        To
                        To
                        To
         42N                         Burgas
                                      Burgas
                   Kurdzhali
                   Kurdzhali                                                                                                                                                                           0        50         100          150 Miles                                                                     GEORGIAGEORGIA                                        42N

                             Edirne
                             Edirne                                                                                                                                              Sinop
                                       Kirklareli
                                       Kirklareli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                           Bartin

            GREECKomatiniDardanelles
                    E                                                Bosporus                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BatumiBatumi
                                                                                                        Zonguldak
                               Tekirdag
                                  kirdag                            Istanbul
                                                                    Istanbul                                                                              KastamonouKastamonou
                                                                                                                                                                          Kuzey                        Samsun                                                                                      Artvin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Artvin             Kura                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                      To                                                                                                            KarabkKarabk                                                                                                                                                            Ardahan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ardahan
                                                 Sea of                KocaeliKocaeli                                                                                                                                                                 Trabzon                                                                          KirovakanKirovakan            AZER-AZER-
                                                                        (Izmit)
                                                                        (Izmit)                          DzceDzce                                                                    Anadolu                            Ordu
                                              Marmara                                                                                                     Devrez                                                                                                        Rize
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Rize
                                                           Yalova
                                                               lova                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BAIJAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BAIJAN
                                                                                          SakaryaSakarya                                                                                                   Daglari               GiresunGiresun
                                                                                                                    BoluBolu                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kars
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kars
                                                                                          (Adapazari)(Adapazari)                                    ankiriankiri Kizil        Amasya
                                                                                                                                                                                Amasya
                                                                                                                                                                  orum
                                                                                                                                                                  orum                                                                                                    oruh                                                              ARMENIAARMENIA
         40N                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kelkit        
                      anakkale
                      anakkale                                                                                                                                                                                                    GmshaneGmshane                                                                                                                       40N
                                                            Bursa
                                                            Bursa                    Bilecik
                                                                                     Bilecik                                                                                                               Tokat
                                                                                                                                                                                                           To                                                         Baybur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bayburt                                                                    Agri Dagi
                                                                                                          Sakarya                                                                                                                                                                                          Aras                                  (5166 m)
                                    Balikesir
                                    Balikesir                                              Eskisehir
                                                                                           Eskisehir                ANKARAANKARA                                                                 Cekerek                                                                                                                               Igdir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Igdir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Erzurum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Erzurum                           AgriAgri

                                                                                                                                                  Kirikkale
                                                                                                                                                  Kirikkale                                                                                           ErzincanErzincan
                                                                                                                                                                          Yozgat
                                                                                                                                                                              zgat                              Sivas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sivas
                                                                 Ktahya
                                                                 Ktahya                                                                                                                                                          Firat                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To    AZER.AZER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Maku
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Maku
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kizil
                                                                                                                                                  Kirsehir
                                                                                                                                                  Kirsehir                                                                              Tunceli  nceli
                                                                                        Afyon
                                                                                        Afyon                                                                                                                                                                BinglBingl
                                     Manisa
                                     Manisa
                       Izmir
                       Izmir                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lake                                 ISLAMIC
                                                                 Usak
                                                                 Usak                                                               Tu
                                                                                                                                    Tuz                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                   GlGl                                                                                          ElazigElazig                         Murat                   MusMus

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Van         VanVa
                                                                                                                  AksehirAksehir                          NevsehirNevsehir                                                                                                                                                                                Salmas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Salmas
                                                                                                                                                                                   KayseriKayseri                                                                                                                                                               REP. OF
         38N                                                                                                      GlGl                                                                                                                                                                                   BitlisBitlis
                                                                                                                                            AksarayAksaray
                                      Aydin
                                      Ay                                                                                                                                                                                        MalatyaMalatya
                                                                                     HoyranHoyran                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IRAN
                                                                                      Gl
                                                                                      Gl                                                                                                                                                                             DiyarbakirDiyarbakir                 Siirt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Siir
                                                   Denizli
                                                   Denizli                                                                                                   NigdeNigde                                                                                                                    Batman
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Batman                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                 BaysehirBaysehir                                                                                                              AdiyamanAdiyaman
                                                                        Burdur
                                                                        Burdur                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Oroumieh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Oroumieh
                                                                                         IspartaIspartaGlGl       KonyaKonya                                                                             Kahraman
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kahraman                                                                       Tigris                              HakkariHakkari


                                       MuglaMugla                                                                                                                                Seyhan                Ceyhan   Maras
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Maras                                                                                     SirnakSirnak

                GREECE                                                                                                                                                                                                        Euphrates                                       MardinMardin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                     Osmaniye
                                                                                                                                                                                     Osmaniye                         Gaziantep
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gaziantep                                                                                               Dahuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dahuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sanliurfa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sanliurfa                                                  To Damir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Damir
                                                                            Antalya
                                                                            Antalya                                                 Gksu KaramanKaraman                                                                                                                                                  Kabu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kabu
                                                                                                                                                                                 Adana
                                                                                                                                                                                 Adana                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Al Hasakah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Al Hasakah                                                                                            IBRD
                                                                                            Gulf of                                                                  Icel                                          Kilis
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kilis

                                                                                           Antalya                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IRAQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IRAQ
         36N                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
JUNE                                                                                                                                Toros         Daglari (Mersin)
                                                                                                                                                                              Hatay (Antakya)                 Aleppo
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Aleppo                                                                                                                                                                33501R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SYRIAN ARAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SYRIAN ARAB
    2007                                         Mediterranean Sea
                                     28E                             30E                                         32E                             34E                                                                        REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                        To Ladhiqiyah                                                                                                        42E                                44E

