Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  06/06/2007 
Report No.:  AC2528
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Turkey 
Project ID:  P100383 
Project Name:  Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project 
Task Team Leader:  Seema Manghee 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 4, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: June 28, 2007 
Managing Unit:  ECSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Solid waste management (45%);General transportation sector (20%);General 
water, sanitation and flood protection sector (20%);Sub-national government 
administration (15%) 
Theme:  Other urban development (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
322.15 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
14.15
14.15 
Environmental Category: F - Financial Intermediary Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objectives of the proposed project are to assist the Istanbul Metropolitan 
Municipality in: (a) improving its solid waste management; and (b) improving its 
capacity to mitigate earthquakes by retrofitting key facilities and infrastructure and 
upgrading the institutions and their procedures to help them respond to emergencies.   
 
3. Project Description 
The IMIP would consist of the following four components:  
 
(i)  Improvements in environmental management:  
 
Closure of existing illegal landfills and rehabilitation of creeks;  
 
Preparation of annual Business Plans that include operating performance, investment 
program and financial targets and results; and  
 
Financing waste collection equipment.  
 
(ii)  Strengthening of municipal services and infrastructure:  
 
Preparing a detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems;  
 
Preparing a Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation Plan;  
Page  2
Retrofitting of municipal infrastructure (under-passes, pipelines, viaducts etc.); and  
 
Providing emergency fire department equipment.  
 
(iii)  Pilot urban transformation program:  
 
Pilot urban transformation feasibility studies; and  
 
Retrofitting and construction of buildings, fire stations and emergency housing 
associated with urban transformation in the most seismic vulnerable areas.  
 
(iv)  Project Management and audits:  
 
Design studies, surveys and technical training for project implementation; and  
 
External audits of project accounts.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
All project activities will take place within Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the 
boundaries of which were extended to correspond with the provincial boundary in 2004.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Norval Stanley Peabody (ECSSD) 
Mr Bernard Baratz (EASTE) 
Mr Frank Van Woerden (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Environmental Assessment  
 
The Environmental Category of the project is FI, based on the fact that some of the 
investments under the project, which may be of all EA categories, will not be identified 
until project implementation. While most sub-projects with civil works will be category 
B, the FI rating provides the flexibility to IMM to finance an Environmental Category A 
investment should that be necessary.  
 
Page  3
To ensure that the project complies with World Bank environmental safeguards, all 
IMIP sub-projects would be subjected to an environmental review process by IMM as 
described in the Environmental Safeguards Framework Document prepared by IMM and 
reviewed and accepted by the World Bank. The Environmental Safeguards Framework 
Document is consistent with both Turkish (Regulations on Environmental Impact 
Assessment, Official Gazette, dated 16 December 2003, Number 25318 from the 
Ministry of Environment and Forests-MoEF) and World Bank EA (OP 4.01) 
requirements.  For the sub projects to be defined during project implementation, the Bank 
will verify during supervision that IMM also follows the Framework procedures for 
environmental review.  
 
The Turkish environmental impact assessment regulation classifies projects by 
environmental risk in a manner similar to World Bank Environmental Assessment (EA) 
policy (OP 4.01).  Some cases may arise, however, where the resultant environmental 
risk assignment under the Turkish system may differ from that of the World Bank, 
though in all cases the more protective approach will apply.  In these limited cases IMM 
will seek additional information and/or to undertake additional measures to assess and 
mitigate risks as a condition of using loan funds.  The seven key elements involved in the 
EA process are:  (a) screening, (b) EA documentation, (c) public consultation, (d) review 
and approval, (e) disclosure, (f) conditionality and (g) supervision and reporting. The 
procedures and institutional responsibilities are all delineated in the Environmental 
Safeguards Framework Document.  
 
An Environmental Assessment for the Environmental Management component of the 
project to clean up 28 non sanitary waste sites was undertaken in the manner described in 
the Environmental Framework. The Environmental Assessment was disclosed in country 
on February 5, 2007.  
 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11).  Civil works involved with rehabilitation or 
new construction undertaken in Istanbul do pose a higher than average risk of affecting 
physical cultural resources and hence the safeguard is triggered as a precautionary 
measure. All construction activities are reviewed by a number of different Municipal 
authorities, before a permit is issued.  For cultural property issues, Istanbul Municipality 
is responsible for application of Turkish laws and regulations, including those relating to 
cultural heritage.  Regional Councils in Istanbul have identified certain areas as 
?designated? areas of cultural and historical importance.  If proposed civil works are to 
take place within one of the designated areas, it is reviewed by the appropriate Regional 
Council prior to being approved, and, if appropriate, specific provisions are attached to 
the approval.  If the construction site is outside a designated area, approval by the 
Regional Council is not required.  However, all construction is subject to national laws 
and procedures related to chance finds.  If an historical or cultural object is found during 
construction, work stops and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is informed, which 
sends and expert to provide direction on how to proceed with the activity.  
 
Subproject-specific EMPs will include appropriate obligations in both mitigation and 
monitoring plans for construction either in a designated area or to address chance find 
Page  4
events.  These requirements will also be included in all contracts for works.  These 
provisions are fully consistent with OP 4.11.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (World Bank OP 4.12): The project is expected to take place 
on public land or within existing rights of way.  None of these activities are likely to 
entail any land acquisition, relocation of population, or result in restricting the access of 
individuals or communities to economic resources.  Given the dynamic situation in the 
IMM, the results of plans or studies underway or to be undertaken, however, it is possible 
that the Municipality will request support for an investment that will require private land 
to be acquired or public land to be cleared.  To enable the project to respond quickly and 
positively to such an eventuality, the IMM has prepared a Resettlement Policy 
Framework satisfactory to the Bank that will ensure compliance with OP 4.12, and hence 
the safeguard is triggered as a precautionary measure.  In addition prior review of all 
proposed urban transformation investments under Component C will be undertaken.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No negative impacts anticipated.  Closing non sanitary waste dumps will have positive 
impacts.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
No applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Relevant staff of the IMM, municipal companies and agencies are familiar with safeguard 
policy issues and have experience in dealing with their application.  Additional training 
on safeguard policy compliance will also be provided, starting at the project launch 
workshop, and continuing on an as-needed basis.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Three different groups have major stakes in the project.  First, public officials, including 
both elected representatives and the staff of public utility companies, are primary 
stakeholders.  In their official capacities, and through advisors, they have defined project 
components and will be responsible for implementing them.  The second group of 
stakeholders is organized civil society. Istanbul has a large group of citizens with strong 
concern for their city.  The concerns range from historic preservation, disaster mitigation 
and management, to public participation, political mobilization and construction and 
development.  The project will offer opportunities for increased consultation between 
government and civil society on a range of issues. The third group of stakeholders 
consists of all the other inhabitants of Istanbul ? the general public.  They need properly 
functioning public services to enable them to live and work in the city.  These 12.5 
million stakeholders are the real target population of the project. The concerns and 
perceptions of the third set of stakeholders were the subject of the ?Housing and Quality 
Page  5
of Life in Residential Areas? mentioned above.  The analysis has yielded valuable 
insights regarding the opportunities, attitudes and physical environment of citizens 
throughout the IMM.  This work established a baseline to monitor project investments, 
and will be useful for preparing and monitoring other investments as well.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/30/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/05/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/30/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/05/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/23/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/30/2007 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources 
 
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property? 
Yes 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on cultural property? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
Page  6
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Seema Manghee 
03/30/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Bernard Baratz 
03/10/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Norval Stanley Peabody 
03/20/2007 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Frank Van Woerden 
03/20/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Sumter Lee Travers 
04/12/2007 
Comments:   
