                                                                                50201

                                       TURKEY

ISTANBUL MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT (RESTRUCTURING)

                                  PROJECT PAPER




Responsible agency: Financial and Technical Department, the Istanbul
M       e       t      r        a




Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank     - Yes X N o
policies?                                                        - Yes -No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                     _.Yes -No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?




Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? N o


               Source                     Local       Foreign           Total
Borrower                                     14.00        0.00              14.00
IBRD/IDA                                    216.15      106.00             322.15
Others
Introductory Statement

This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce changes in
the Turkey Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project, IBRD Loan No. 4866 -TU (ID PE-
P100383) and accompanying amendments to the project's legal documents. The
proposed restructuring serves to align the project with the evolving priorities o f the
Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality for IBRD investment financing within the framework
o f the national investment budget approved by the Turkish State Planning Organization
(SPO).' The restructuring will: (a) expand the scope o f Component A - improvements in
Solid Waste Management and Rehabilitation and clean up o f creeks; (b) remove
retrofitting and construction o f buildings, fire stations and emergency housing associated
with urban transformation from Component C; and (c) extend the project closing date
until June 30,2013. The Project Paper also provides an opportunity to further specify the
Project Development Objectives and adjust the associated outcome and intermediate
outcome indicators.

1. Background and Reasons for Restructuring

Background

1.      The project was approved by the Board o f Executive Directors on June 28, 2007,
and became effective on February 23, 2009. Signing o f the legal documents for the
project - a Loan Agreement with the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) and a
Guarantee Agreement with Turkey - was delayed by about a year due to the mandatory
requirement to include all foreign investments in the State Planning Organization's
Annual Investment Plan for 2008. The Annual Investment Plan i s only published in mid
January o f each year.

2.      During the finalization o f the Annual Investment Plan, the State Planning
Organization informed the Municipality o f Istanbul that in the case o f Component C-
Pilot Urban Transformation Program, the feasibility studies planned under the component
can be funded by the project. The investments, however, that were to be identified after
the completion o f the feasibility studies and selected during project implementation
should be undertaken by IMM with other sources o f funds and not from the project loan.

3.      Shortly thereafter, the Treasury informed the Bank that the annual limit
(established by law) for sovereign guarantees issued by the Treasury for non-sovereign
external borrowing in 2008 was about to be reached and could not accommodate the
issuance o f a guarantee for the Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project (IMIP) in 2008.
Therefore, Treasury requested that the Guarantee Agreement be signed between the Bank
and Turkey in early 2009, with the guarantee counting toward the new annual limit for
2009.

4.     Against this background, discussions between the Borrower, the Guarantor and
the Bank led to the agreed restructuring o f the project.

' The Government o f Turkey i s the "Guarantor" o f this loan to the Istanbul MetropolitanMunicipality.
                                                     2
5.      The objectives o f the project were to assist the IMM in: (i)    improving i t s solid
waste management; and (ii)   improving i t s capacity to mitigate earthquakes by retrofitting
key facilities and infrastructure and upgrading the institutions and their procedures to
help them respond to emergencies.

6.     The revised objectives o f the project are to contribute to: (i) rehabilitation and
                                                                       the
clean up o f unauthorized waste disposal sites and creeks; and (ii) strengthening o f the
                                                                    the
capacity o f the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) to mitigate the impact o f
earthquakes by retrofitting infrastructure and providing training to respond to
emergencies more effectively.

7.     The components o f the restructured project are as follows:

Component A: Improvements in solid waste management and rehabilitation and clean up
o f creeks:
          a. Closure and rehabilitation o f existing unauthorized disposal sites for
             municipal solid waste (landfills) and rehabilitation o f creeks through creek
             bed and canal cleaning, protection o f stream banks to control erosion and loss
             o f bank materials, and rehabilitation and replacement o f existing rainwater
             and wastewater pipelines.
          b. Preparation o f annual Business Plans for IMM that include operating
        '
             performance, investment program and financial targets and results; and
          c. Financing waste collection equipment.

Component B: Strengthening o f municipal services and infrastructure:
     a. Preparing a detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems;
     b. Preparing a Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation Plan;
     c. Retrofitting o f municipal infrastructure; and
     d. Providing emergency fire department equipment.

Component C : Pilot urban transformation program:
     a. Pilot urban transformation feasibility studies and preparation o f microzonation
        studies.

Component D: Project Management and audits:
     a. Design studies, surveys and technical training for project implementation; and
     b. External audits o f project accounts.

Reasonsfor restructuring

8.     Component A -Improvements in solid waste management and rehabilitation and
clean UP o f creeks. Growing inefficiencies in the collection and safe disposal o f solid
waste are creating potential public health hazards. Rapid population growth has generated
increased volumes o f wastewater that i s being discharged untreated into creeks and other
environmentally fragile areas, leading to flooding during heavy rainfall in 2008. IMM
requested that, due to the urgent need to mitigate risks against flooding, the funding for
the rehabilitation o f the creeks be increased. Given the large financing needs for the

                                              3
 cleanup and rehabilitation o f creeks, Component A would increase from US$96.0 million
 to US$165.5 million.

 9.      Most o f the funding for this reallocation o f proceeds would come from
 Component C -the Pilot Urban Transformation Program. The aim o f that Program i s to
 support pilot urban transformation studies and investments throughout the metropolitan
 area. The revised Component C would now help finance only feasibility studies for urban
 transformation and microzonation for pilot citywide urban transformation projects, while
 the actual investments would be undertaken by IMM without Bank financing. These
 investments relate to city-center revitalization and retrofitting and construction o f
 buildings, fire stations, emergency housing and other related urban revitalization
 investments associated with urban transformation in earthquake prone areas. Project
 objectives would s t i l l focus on relevant outcomes, because investments for this
 component would be identified after completion o f the feasibility studies and
 microzonation maps. Component C allocation would decrease from US$ 100.0 million to
 US$40.0 million.

 10.     Component B - Strengthening o f Municipal Services and Infrastructure- would
 remain unchanged in substance. Cost estimates, which were initially based on pre-
 technical studies, have been reduced by US$27.5 million. The main reason for this
 reduction i s that once the full feasibility studies were completed and reviewed, the costs
 were lower than estimates based on the pre technical studies. This cost reduction i s also
 consistent with the cap placed on the allocations made by the State Planning Commission
 for those investments in the approved investment program. Part o f those savings would
 be reallocated to Component A, and the remainder to the Unallocated category.
 Component B would decrease from US$126.0 million to US$98.5 million.

 11.    The Unallocated category would increase from zero to US$17.2 million.

 2. Proposed Changes

 12.   The project development objective has been revised to reflect the requested
 changes in financing and clarification for the original objectives. The key changes are
 summarized below:

 Original - Project Appraisal Document            Revised
 June 7,2007                                      August 19,2009
 Previous                                         Revised

                                                  To contribute to: (i) rehabilitation and
                                                                         the
                                                  clean up o f unauthorized waste disposal
                                                  sites and creeks; and (ii) strengthening
                                                                              the
                                                  o f the capacity o f the Istanbul Metropolitan
                                                  Municipality (IMM) to mitigate the impact
                                                  o f earthquakes by retrofitting infrastructure
                                                  and providing training to respond to
I them respond to emergencies.                I   emergencies more effectively.

                                             4
                                                   1. Improvements in Solid Waste
Management (Cost: $96.0M, Loan:                    Management and Rehabilitation and
$96. O )
      M                                            Clean up o Creeks (Cost: $165.5M,
                                                               f
                                                   Loan: $165.5M)
a. Closure o f existing unauthorized               a. Closure and rehabilitation o f existing
  disposal sites for municipal solid waste            unauthorized disposal sites for municipal
  (landfills) and rehabilitation o f creeks;          solid waste (landfills) and rehabilitation
b. Preparation o f annual Business Plans              o f creeks as well as replacement existing
  that include operating performance,                 rainwater and wastewater pipelines;
  investment program and financial targets         b. Preparation o f annual Business Plans for
  and results; and                                    IMM that include operating
c. Financing waste collection equipment.              performance, investment program and
                                                      financial targets and results; and
                                                   c. Financing waste collection equipment.
2. Strengthening o Municipal Services
                  f                                2. Strengthening o Municipal Services
                                                                        f
                                                   and Infrastructure
                                                   (Cost: $98.5M, Loan: $98.5M)
                                                   N o change. The cost and loan amounts
  all major municipal systems;                     have been reduced to reflect the costs o f the
b. Preparing a Municipal Infrastructure            completed feasibility studies.
  Risk Mitigation Plan;
c. Retrofitting o f municipal infrastructure
  (under-passes, viaducts, etc.); and
d. Providing emergency fire department
  equipment.
3. Pilot Urban Transformation Program              3. Pilot Urban Transformation Program
(Cost: $1O M Loan: $1O O M
            O .                                    (Cost: $40M, Loan: $40M)
a. Pilot urban transformation feasibility          Preparation o f pilot urban transformation
  studies; and                                     feasibility studies and preparation o f
b. Retrofitting and construction o f               microzonation studies. These are necessary
  buildings, fire stations and emergency           in the analysis o f seismic risk and the
  housing associated with urban                    development o f land use plans.
  transformation in the most seismic
  vulnerable areas (uncommitted funds to
  be identified after the completion o f
  feasibility studies).
4. Project Management and Audit                    4. Project Management and Audit
(Cost: $14.15M, Loan: $O.l5M)                      (Cost: $14.15M, Loan: $0.15M)
a. Design studies, surveys and technical           N o change.
  training for project implementation;
b. External audits o f Droiect accounts.
Closing Date: December 3 1, 201 1                  Closing Date: June 30, 2013
Mid-Term Review: March 18,2009                     Mid-Term Review: June 15,201 1



                                               5
                    Summary o f Revised Project Costs and Financing Plan




 Rehabilitation and Clean up o f




* Front end fee was waived in FY07 and was not included in the costs plan in the original PAD.
** Numbers are adjusted for exchange rates and rounded.
                                 Amount o f the            Amount o f the            Percentage o f
        Category                 Loan Allocated            Revised Loan            Expenditures to be
                                     (US$)                     (US$)                   Financed
(1) Works and                      279,194,625              275,095,625                  100%
Technical Services
(2) Goods                            42.000.000               26.549.000                   100%
(3) Consultants                         150,000                2,500,000                   100%
(4) Front End Fee                       805.375                  805.375
(5j Unallocated                                               17,200,000                   100%
Total Amount                        322.1 50,000             322,150,000

3. Analysis

13,   The proposed changes have no major effect on the original institutional, financial
management, procurement nor environment aspects o f the project as appraised.

14.     Implementation Arrangements. IMIP will be implemented under the direct
responsibility o f IMM. The contracts will be signed by the Deputy Secretary General
authorized for each respective Department. The Financial Department i s coordinating
project implementation, especially in regard to reporting and communicating with the
Bank, but various other technical specialists will provide support according to their
relevant functions.

15.     The Financial Department i s responsible for disbursement, financial management,
and accounting and reporting. Implementation will be undertaken by existing qualified
staff from the Finance Department itself as well as technical experts from the
Infrastructure Department and other relevant departments o f IMM and, on an as needed


                                                   6
basis, representatives o f the beneficiary municipal service companies. Technical
supervision o f project implementation and monitoring, evaluation o f project results, and
checking o f engineering designs to ensure that they meet project criteria will be
undertaken by the technical staff from the Infrastructure Department. Possible needs for
specific skills and qualifications that might not be available in IMM will be satisfied
through the temporary employment o f local consultants and/or the procurement o f
international expertise to be financed under the project.

 16.     Procurement and Fiduciary. The procurement capacity assessment evaluated the
capacity o f IMM to manage project procurement in accordance with World Bank rules
and guidelines. The procurement arrangements for the project are satisfactory to the Bank
and will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines: procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May, 2004, revised October 2006 and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May, 2004,
revised October 2006. An assessment o f the financial management arrangements for the
project has also been undertaken. Current financial management arrangements for the
project are satisfactory to the Bank. IMM has finalized the budgeting requirements for
the project and has already prepared the draft financial management manual for the
project.

17.     Technical. Achieving improvement in IMM's environmental management,
especially in the area o f solid waste collection and disposal, and increasing i t s
preparedness in the event o f a possible earthquake by ensuring the functioning o f key
infrastructure facilities and services entails the selection o f investments that are
technically sound and cost effective, and keep operating and maintenance costs as l o w as
possible. In keeping with these criteria, the investments selected for IMIP represent least
cost alternatives. Concurrently, IMM has paid special attention to ensure that all selected
investments are designed to meet the highest technical standards, and are in compliance
with applicable Turkish and EU environmental standards and regulations. Currently,
close to $1 10 million worth o f contracts for fire equipment, rehabilitation o f creeks and
microzonation are almost ready to be launched for tendering.

Environment

 18.    During the preparation o f the restructuring, the project team reviewed the actions
and process for public consultations o n the Environmental Framework2 and i t s disclosure
when the original project was prepared and appraised. The Environmental Framework
had been included as part o f the documentation provided through the Infoshop, but had
not been disclosed as a stand-alone document. Both the Environmental Framework and
the E A E M P on the cleanup and rehabilitation o f creeks have now been disclosed as self-
standing documents through the InfoShop. Also, although public consultations on the
Environmental Framework and the Environmental Impact Assessment for the Solid
Waste component already took place before project appraisal, the Istanbul Metropolitan
Municipality conducted on July 9, 2009, a full follow-up consultation, including on the
Environmental Framework as a self-standing document. The documentation o n the


 The loan agreement refers to this Framework as the Environmental Policy Framework.

                                                 7
consultation can be found at the Environmental Protection Department o f the Istanbul
Municipality.

 19.    The project was classified as FI in November 2006, based o n the fact that the
individual investments under the project were not specified in advance but would be
identified by IMM during implementation.           In keeping with the FI category, an
Environmental Framework was prepared by IMM and disclosed. More recently, Bank
practice and management guidance have evolved, so that the FI category has been used
only for projects where, in addition to individual investments not being known in
advance, funds are disbursed through banks or other financial intermediaries that meet
the criteria o f OP8.30. However, the F I category for this project will be retained for
continuity as the Environmental Framework i s in place, safeguard training has been
provided accordingly, and IMM staff have gained familiarity with it. Prior to
commencing works on any individual investment, a site-specific Environmental
Management Plan will be prepared as specified in the Environmental Framework, and
approved for the investment based on the detailed design. T o ensure that the investments
under the Project comply with all World Bank environmental safeguards, all investments
identified will be subject to an environmental screening process by the IMM as described
in the Environmental Framework, which includes criteria for determining whether a
given investment should be classified as Category A or Category B in relation to
OP 4.01. The Bank will review site-specific EMPs for Category B level investments on
a spot-check basis; for investments that are or could be rated as Category A the site-
specific EMPs will require ex-ante review and clearance by the Bank. The Bank will also
verify during supervision that the procedures for environmental review and monitoring
specified in the Environmental Framework are followed.

20.     Based on the Environmental Framework, a component-level Environmental
Assessment and Environmental Management Plan were prepared for the component o f
the project for cleaning up o f unauthorized waste disposal sites. This component-level
E N E M P provides detailed guidance for preparation o f the site-specific EMPs. The
E N E M P for illegal waste sites was disclosed in country on February 5, 2007. A similar
component-level EA and E M P i s being prepared by the IMM to guide the preparation o f
site-specific EMPs for the clean-up and rehabilitation o f creeks.

21.    Implementation o f the investments under the project has not yet started. The
IMM has a Department o f Environmental Protection (DEP) with qualified staff who will
work closely with the other technical departments o f the IMM to ensure environmental
compliance.   The DEP i s fully experienced with the requirements o f national
environmental legislation and regulations and i s also experienced with the
implementation o f Projects in compliance with World Bank requirements.

22.    The IMM staff has been briefed during both preparation and the initial
supervision missions o n the importance o f document preparation, subsequent mitigation
and monitoring, and report transmittals and record-keeping.

23.    In order to further strengthen the breadth and depth o f capacity in the DEP, as it
prepares to take o n the support to the IMIP, an E C A Safeguards Training was organized

                                            8
from November 10- 11, 2008. Following an Overview o f World Bank Safeguard Policies,
more detailed presentations were made, including: the overall screening process to be
used for World Bank investments to be included in the IMIP; Resettlement Policy
Frameworks/Action Planning; and EMPs and the Importance o f Mitigation and
Monitoring Plans. The training and presentations served to build a shared understanding
among DEP and the World Bank staff o f the importance of proactive and collaborative
project management during implementation by IMM and as part o f supervision by the
World Bank.

24.    Concurrently, the support provided by the DEP in the preparation o f the
intermediate framework EAs/EMPs for (i) clean up o f unauthorized waste disposal
                                            the
sites and (ii)the clean up and rehabilitation o f creeks, has shown a proficient
understanding o f safeguard principles and compliance responsibilities.          As the
investments begin, the project team will work with DEP to ensure the effective
assumption o f client responsibilities and ear-mark any areas for the receipt o f further
technical assistance.

25.      Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.1 1).            C i v i l works involved with
rehabilitation or new construction undertaken in Istanbul do pose a higher than average
risk o f affecting physical cultural resources and hence the safeguard i s triggered as a
precautionary measure. All construction activities are reviewed by a number o f different
Municipal authorities, before a permit i s issued. For cultural property issues, the Istanbul
Municipality i s responsible for application o f Turkish laws and regulations, including
those relating to cultural heritage. Regional Councils in Istanbul have identified certain
areas as "designated" areas o f cultural and historical importance. If proposed civil works
are to take place within one o f the designated areas, it i s reviewed by the appropriate
Regional Council prior to being approved, and, if appropriate, specific provisions are
attached to the approval. If the construction site i s outside a designated area, approval by
the Regional Council i s not required. However, all construction i s subject to national
laws and procedures related to "chance finds." If an historical or cultural object i s found
during construction, work stops and the Ministry o f Culture and Tourism i s informed,
which sends an expert to provide direction on how to proceed with the activity.

26.      Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The project i s expected to take place on
public land or within existing rights o f way and it i s not expected that any project
activities will entail any land acquisition, relocation o f population, or result in restricting
the access o f individuals or communities to economic resources. However, as a
precautionary measure to enable a quick response in case the final design o f any activities
should unexpectedly call for the expropriation o f private land or relocation o f people or
businesses, the IMM has prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework satisfactory to the
Bank that will ensure compliance with OP 4.12, and hence the safeguard i s triggered as a
precautionary measure,

27.    International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). OP/BP 7.50 i s not triggered because the
project will not finance any activities which would affect the quality or quantity o f
transboundary water bodies.


                                               9
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                          Yes              No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.0 1)                               [XI
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                        [ I
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                            [ I
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.1 1)                            [XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                      [ I
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                 [ I
Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                         [ I
Projects in DisputedAreas (OP/BP 7.60)                               [ I
Projects on International Waterways (OPBP 7.50)                      [ I

  The project does not require any exceptions from Bank policies.

  4. Expected Outcomes

 28.     The preparation o f the proposed project restructuring provided an opportunity to
 shape and enhance the results framework for the project, so it i s relevant and can be
 properly monitored (see Annex 1). Outcome indicators for monitoring would be:
 (a) percentage decrease in water pollution in the nearest body o f water to the dumps and
 creeks rehabilitated; and (b) Istanbul Municipality's ability to ensure safe and accessible
 infrastructure during and in the afternmath o f an earthquake, measured by the number o f
 viaducts retrofitted according to Turkish seismic standards.

 5. Benefits and Risks

 29.      The IMM has implemented similar and far larger infrastructure projects (IMM's
 Infrastructure department alone i s responsible for implementation o f approximately
 US$700 million o f projects per year) and possesses the necessary technical and financial
 capacities. Project implementation by the Borrower i s based on the use o f existing
 municipal staff, according to their relative functions, and no separate project
 implementation unit would be established. This approach i s considered best practice
 because it involves the use o f IMM staff without setting up an unnecessary project
 implementing unit. Upon project completion, staff would continue working in their
 respective jobs, while benefitting from the knowledge and training they gained in
 implementing IMIP.

 30.     Risks have increased due to the global financial crisis. Turkey faces a sharp
 economic contraction, with lower exports, industrial production, capacity utilization, and
 government revenues. GDP growth in 2008 was down to 1.1 percent, after averaging
 nearly 7 percent annually over 2003-7. In 2009 GDP i s likely to contract by 5 percent or
 more. In this context, municipalities face increased challenges in accessing long term
 finance. The Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality has access to finance, due to i t s financial
 standing, although at an increased cost.

 31.   Since IMM i s a first time borrower from the World Bank, considerable training
 has been provided to prepare the counterpart for implementation. Trainings include:

                                              10
Municipal Investments and Operations (2006); Financial Technical, and Procurement
Training (2006); Appraisal o f Infrastructure Projects (2007); Procurement Practices
(2008); Utility Management Practices (2008); Solid Waste Management - Best Practices
(2008); and Safeguards Training (2008) and Procurement Training (2009).




                                        11
                                                                                                  Annex 1

PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK
PDO:                                                        OUTCOME INDICATORS:
T o contribute to: (i) rehabilitation and clean up o f
                     the
unauthorized waste disposal sites and creeks ; and (ii)
the strengthening o f the capacity o f the Istanbul
Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) to mitigate the impact
o f earthquakes by retrofitting infrastructure and
providing training to respond to emergencies more
effectively.

i) Rehabilitation and clean up o f unauthorized waste       PDO 1
   disposal sites and creeks                                Indicator:
                                                            0  % decrease in water pollution in the nearest body of
                                                               water to the dumps and creeks rehabilitated.
                                                            Measure:
                                                            0  % decrease (or decrease in absolute value) o f selected
                                                               chemicals/polluting agents in water tested in target
                                                               areas.

 i)
i Strengthening o f the capacity o f the Istanbul           PDO 2
    Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) to mitigate the         Indicator:
    impact o f earthquakes by retrofitting infrastructure   0  The Istanbul Municipality i s able to ensure safe and
    and providing training t o respond to emergencies          accessible infrastructure during and in the aftermath o f
    more effectively                                           an earthquake.
                                                            Measure:
                                                            0  Number o f viaducts retrofitted according to Turkish
                                                               seismic standards.


COMPONENTS:                                                 INTERMEDIATE INDICATORS:

A) Improvements in solid waste management and               Indicator:
   rehabilitation and clean up o f creeks:                  0  Solid waste i s removed from unauthorized sites to
a. Closure and rehabilitation o f existing unauthorized        authorized landfills;
   disposal sites for municipal solid waste (landfills)     Measure:
   and rehabilitation o f creeks through creek bed and      0  Tons and % o f solid waste removed from unauthorized
   canal cleaning, protection o f stream banks to control      sites to authorized landfills;
   erosion and loss o f bank materials, and                 Indicator:
   rehabilitation and replacement o f existing rainwater    0  Rehabilitation and stabilization o f creeks;
   and wastewater pipelines.                                Measure:
b. Preparation o f annual Business Plans for IMM that       0  Number and % o f creeks rehabilitated;
   include operating performance, investment program
   and financial targets and results; and                   Indicator:
C. Financing waste collection equipment.                    0  Wild dump sites are properly closed according to
                                                               standards identified in the EMP.
                                                            Measure:
                                                            0  Number and % o f dump sites closed according to E M P
                                                               standards.




                                                      12
B) Strengthening o f municipal services and               Indicator:
   infrastructure:                                        0  Municipal infrastructure risk mitigation plan i s
a. Preparing a detailed risk assessment for all major        endorsed by IMM.
   municipal systems;                                     Measure:
b. Preparing a Municipal Infrastructure Risk              0  The Istanbul Municipal infrastructure Risk Mitigation
   Mitigation Plan;                                          Plan i s completed.
C. Retrofitting of municipal infrastructure; and
d. Providing emergency fire department equipment.         Indicator:
                                                          0  Completion o f training o f IMM on best practices for
                                                             municipal infrastructure safety according to
                                                             international standards.
                                                          Measure:
                                                          0  Completion o f training of relevant IMM officials on
                                                             earthquake mitigation related to municipal
                                                             infrastructure.

                                                          Indicator:
                                                          0  Selected municipal infrastructure i s retrofitted or
                                                             replaced in compliance with current Turkish
                                                             regulations for high-risk areas.
                                                          Measure:
                                                          0 Number o f viaducts, overpasses and underpasses

                                                             retrofitted:

c>   Pilot urban transformation program:                  Indicator:
a.   Pilot urban transformation feasibility studies and   Assessments used as input in the Urban Transformation
     preparation o f microzonation studies.               Program. Microzonation maps used to assess the seismic
                                                          risk in developing urban transformation & feasibility
                                                          studies and for issuing new construction permits.
                                                          Measure:
                                                             Number of urban transformation projects endorsed in
                                                             accordance with microzonation maps and number o f
                                                             construction permitsganted. _ _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _
                                                              _ _ . - _ _ _ --          _
                                                                                     _ _ _ _ I




                                                     13
