Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/16/2009 
Report No.:  49525
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Turkey 
Project ID:  P100383 
Project Name:  Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project 
Task Team Leader:  Seema Manghee 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 4, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: June 28, 2007 
Managing Unit:  ECSSD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Solid waste management (30%);General transportation sector (23%);Sub-
national government administration (23%);General water, sanitation and flood protection 
sector (13%);Housing construction (11%) 
Theme:  Other urban development (40%);Natural disaster management (40%);Pollution 
management and environmental health (20%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
322.15 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
14.15
14.15 
Environmental Category: F - Financial Intermediary Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objectives of the project are to assist the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM): 
(i) with rehabilitation and clean up of unauthorized waste disposal sites and creeks to 
improve its environmental management; and (ii) to improve its capacity to mitigate the 
impact of earthquakes by retrofitting infrastructure and providing training to respond to 
emergencies more effectively.   
 
3. Project Description 
The Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project (IMIP) would consist of the following four 
components:  
 
Component A:  Improvements in solid waste management and rehabilitation and clean 
up of creeks:  
 
a. Closure and rehabilitation of existing unauthorized disposal sites for municipal solid 
waste (landfills) and rehabilitation of creeks through creek bed and canal cleaning, 
Page  2
protection of stream banks to control erosion and loss of bank materials, and 
rehabilitation and replacement of existing rainwater and wastewater pipelines.  
 
b.
Preparation of annual Business Plans for IMM that include operating performance, 
investment program and financial targets and results; and  
 
c. Financing waste collection equipment.  
 
Component B:  Strengthening of municipal services and infrastructure:  
 
a. Preparing a detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems;  
 
b.
Preparing a Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation Plan;  
 
c. Retrofitting of municipal infrastructure; and  
 
d.
Providing emergency fire department equipment.  
 
Component C: Pilot urban transformation program:  
 
a. Pilot urban transformation feasibility studies and preparation of microzonation 
studies.  
 
Component D:  Project management and audits:  
 
a. Design studies, surveys and technical training for project implementation; and  
 
b.
External audits of project accounts.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
All project activities will take place within Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the 
boundaries of which were extended to correspond with the provincial boundary in 2004.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Bernard Baratz (ECSSD) 
Mr Philip W. Moeller (ECSSD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  3
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project was classified as FI in November 2006, based on the fact that the individual 
investments under the project were not specified in advance but would be identified by 
IMM during implementation.   In keeping with the FI category, an Environmental 
Framework was prepared by IMM and disclosed.   More recently, following OPCS 
guidance, the FI category has been used only for projects where, in addition to individual 
investments not being known in advance, funds are disbursed through banks or other 
financial intermediaries that meet the criteria of OP8.30.  However, the FI category for 
this project will be retained for continuity as the Environmental Framework is in place, 
safeguard training has been provided accordingly, and IMM staff have gained familiarity 
with it.  Prior to commencing works on any individual investment, a site-specific 
Environmental Management Plan will be prepared as specified in the Environmental 
Framework, and approved for the investment based on the detailed design.  To ensure 
that the investments under the Project comply with all World Bank environmental 
safeguards, all investments identified will be subject to an environmental screening 
process by the IMM as described in the EF, which includes criteria for determining 
whether a given investment should be classified as Category A or Category B in relation 
to OP 4.01.   The Bank will review site-specific EMPs for Category B level investments 
on a spot-check basis; for investments that are or could be rated as Category A the site-
specific EMPs will require ex-ante review and clearance by the Bank.  The Bank will also 
verify during supervision that the procedures for environmental review and monitoring 
specified in the EF are followed.  
 
Based on the EF, a component-level Environmental Assessment and Environmental 
Management Plan were prepared for the component of the project for cleaning up of 
unauthorized waste disposal sites.  This component-level EA/EMP provides detailed 
guidance for preparation of the site-specific EMPs.  The EA/EMP for unauthorized waste 
disposal sites was disclosed in country on February 5, 2007.  A similar component-level 
EA and EMP is being prepared by the IMM to guide the preparation of site-specific 
EMPs for the clean-up and rehabilitation of creeks.  A draft has been submitted for the 
World Bank#s review and comments.  
 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11).  Civil works involved with rehabilitation or 
new construction undertaken in Istanbul do pose a higher than average risk of affecting 
physical cultural resources and hence the safeguard is triggered as a precautionary 
measure. All construction activities are reviewed by a number of different Municipal 
authorities, before a permit is issued.  For cultural property issues, the Istanbul 
Municipality is responsible for application of Turkish laws and regulations, including 
those relating to cultural heritage.  Regional Councils in Istanbul have identified certain 
areas as #designated# areas of cultural and historical importance.  If proposed civil works 
are to take place within one of the designated areas, it is reviewed by the appropriate 
Regional Council prior to being approved, and, if appropriate, specific provisions are 
attached to the approval.  If the construction site is outside a designated area, approval by 
the Regional Council is not required.  However, all construction is subject to national 
laws and procedures related to chance finds.  If an historical or cultural object is found 
Page  4
during construction, work stops and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism is informed, 
which sends and expert to provide direction on how to proceed with the activity.  
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The project is expected to take place on public 
land or within existing rights of way and it is not expected that any project activities will 
entail any land acquisition, relocation of population, or result in restricting the access of 
individuals or communities to economic resources.  However, as a precautionary measure 
to enable a quick response in case the final design of any activities does unexpectedly call 
for the expropriation of private land or relocation of people or businesses, the IMM has 
prepared a Resettlement Policy Framework satisfactory to the Bank that will ensure 
compliance with OP 4.12, and hence the safeguard is triggered as a precautionary 
measure.  
 
International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50). OP/BP 7.50 is not triggered because the project 
will not finance any activities which would affect the quality or quantity of transboundary 
water bodies.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No negative impacts anticipated.  Closing non sanitary waste dumps and rehabilitation of 
creeks will have positive impacts.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Implementation of the investments under the project has not yet started.  The IMM has a 
Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) with qualified staff who will work 
closely with the other technical departments of the IMM to ensure environmental 
compliance.  The DEP is fully experienced with the requirements of national 
environmental legislation and regulations and is also experienced with the 
implementation of Projects in compliance with Work Bank requirements.  
 
The IMM staff has been briefed during both preparation and the initial supervision 
missions on the importance of document preparation, subsequent mitigation and 
monitoring, and report transmittals and record-keeping.  
 
In order to further strengthen the breadth and depth of capacity in the DEP, as it 
prepares to take on the support the IMIP, ECA Safeguards Training was organized from 
November 10-11, 2008.  Following an Overview of World Bank Safeguard Policies, 
more detailed presentations were made, including: the overall screening process to be 
used for World Bank investments to be included in the IMIP; Resettlement Policy 
Frameworks/Action Planning; and EMPs and the Importance of Mitigation and 
Monitoring Plans.  The training and presentations served to build a shared understanding 
Page  5
among DEP staff and the World Bank staff of need for proactive and collaborative 
project management during implementation by IMM and as part of supervision by the 
World Bank.  
 
Concurrently, the support provided by the DEP in the preparation of the intermediate 
framework EAs/EMPs for (i) the clean up of unauthorized waste disposal sites and (ii) 
the clean up and rehabilitation of creeks has shown a proficient understanding of 
safeguard principles and compliance responsibilities.  As the investments begin, the 
project team will work with DEP to ensure the effective assumption of client 
responsibilities and ear-mark any areas for the receipt of further technical assistance.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
During the finalization of the Project Paper, the Region realized that the Environmental 
Framework had not been properly disclosed in the InfoShop as a stand-alone document. 
Furthermore, while there was public consultation on the Environmental Impact 
Assessment, there was no explicit record of the Municipality conducting a public 
consultation on the Environmental Framework before project appraisal. The Municipality 
therefore agreed to hold the consultations again on July 9, 2009.  These consultations 
have now been completed and the Environmental Framework and the component 
EA/EMP on cleanup and rehabilitation of creeks were disclosed as per established 
procedures.  
 
Three different groups have major stakes in the project.  First, public officials, including 
both elected representatives and the staff of the associated ministries, municipalities, and 
public utility companies, are primary stakeholders.  In their official capacities, and 
through advisors, they have helped define project components and will be responsible for 
implementing them.  
 
The second group of stakeholders is organized civil society. Istanbul has a large group 
of citizens with strong concern for their city.  The concerns range from historic 
preservation, disaster mitigation and management, to public participation, political 
mobilization and construction and development.  The project will offer opportunities for 
increased consultation between government and civil society on a range of issues.  
 
The third group of stakeholders consists of all the other inhabitants of Istanbul, that is, 
the general public.  They need properly functioning public services to enable them to live 
and work in the city.  These 12.5 million stakeholders are the real target population of the 
project.  The concerns and perceptions of the third set of stakeholders were the subject of 
a
study, #Housing and Quality of Life in Residential Areas.#  The analysis provided in 
this study has yielded valuable insights regarding the opportunities, attitudes and physical 
environment of citizens throughout the IMM.  This work established a baseline to 
monitor project investments and will be useful for preparing and monitoring other 
investments as well.   
 
Page  6
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
01/30/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
02/05/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/30/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
03/05/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
03/23/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
03/30/2007 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.11 - Physical Cultural Resources 
 
Does the EA include adequate measures related to cultural property? 
Yes 
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential 
adverse impacts on cultural property? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Page  7
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Seema Manghee 
06/10/2009 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Bernard Baratz 
06/10/2009 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Caroline M. Kende-Robb 
06/10/2009 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Philip W. Moeller 
06/10/2009 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Ms Agnes I. Kiss 
07/13/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Wael Zakout 
06/11/2009 
Comments:   
