                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00002249



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-48660)



                                       ON A

                                      LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 322.15 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                 ISTANBUL METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITY

                                     FOR AN

             ISTANBUL MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                               November 28, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective November 28, 2013)

               Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
                     1.00 = US$ 0.50
                    US$ 1.00 = 2.02

                      FISCAL YEAR


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DMs      District Municipalities
EA       Environmental Assessment
EMF      Environmental Framework
FI       Financial Intermediary
FM       Financial Management
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IMM      Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality
ISDS     Integrated Safeguards Datasheet
ISMEP    Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Project
LARP     Land Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework
MSP      Municipal Services Project
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
OP       Operational Policy
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAPs     Project-affected Persons
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Program Development Objectives
PP       Project Paper
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SPO      State Planning Organization
WB       World Bank


                Vice President: Laura Tuck
              Country Director: Martin Raiser
               Sector Manager: Sumila Gulyani
          Project Team Leader: Mara Warwick
             ICR Team Leader: Stephen Karam

                             ii
                                             TURKEY
                              Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information                                                                                                     iv
    B. Key Dates                                                                                                             iv
    C. Ratings Summary                                                                                                       iv
    D. Sector and Theme Codes                                                                                                 v
    E. Bank Staff                                                                                                            v
    F. Results Framework Analysis                                                                                            v
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs                                                                               vii
    H. Restructuring                                                                                                        vii
    I. Disbursement Graph                                                                                                  viii

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 18
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 32
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42

MAP………………………………………………………………………………………43




                                                             iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Istanbul Municipal
Country:                Turkey                       Project Name:
                                                                             Infrastructure Project
Project ID:             P100383                      L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-48660
ICR Date:               05/08/2012                   ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                             Istanbul Metropolitan
Lending Instrument:     SIL                          Borrower:
                                                                             Municipality
Original Total
                        USD 322.15M                  Disbursed Amount:       USD 22.44M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 22.44M
Environmental Category: FI
Implementing Agencies: Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process            Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/03/2006         Effectiveness:           09/14/2007          02/23/2009
Appraisal:            04/04/2007         Restructuring(s):                            09/09/2009
Approval:             06/28/2007         Mid-term Review:                             4/23/2011
                                         Closing:                 12/31/2011          06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                            Highly Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                         High
Bank Performance:                                    Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                            Ratings
                                                                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Highly Unsatisfactory Government:
                                                                             Unsatisfactory
                                                     Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:




                                                    iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                         Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           No                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                           Yes                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General transportation sector                                       23
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector               13              100
Housing construction                                                11
Solid waste management                                              30
Sub-national government administration                              23


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                         40                  50
Other urban development                                             40                  50
Pollution management and environmental health                       20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                         Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Martin Raiser                      Ulrich Zachau
Sector Manager:            Sumila Gulyani                     Sumter Lee Travers
Project Team Leader:       Mara K. Warwick                    Seema Manghee
ICR Team Leader:           Stephen Karam
ICR Primary Author:        Sonia Hammam



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project are to assist the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality in: (a)
improving its solid waste management; and (b) improving its capacity to mitigate


                                                v
earthquakes by retrofitting key facilities and infrastructure and upgrading the institutions
and their procedures to help them respond to emergencies.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives of the project are to contribute to: (i) the rehabilitation and cleanup of
unauthorized waste disposal sites and creeks; and, (ii) the strengthening of the capacity of
the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) to mitigate the impact of earthquakes by
retrofitting infrastructure and providing training to respond to emergencies more
effectively.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
                Percentage decrease in water pollution in the nearest body of water to the dumps
Indicator 1 :
                and creeks rehabilitated.
Value           No baseline specified in No target specified
                                                                              Not reported by
quantitative or September 2009            in September 2009
                                                                              Borrower.
Qualitative)    restructuring.            restructuring.
Date achieved 09/09/2009                  09/09/2009                          07/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %        No achievement on PDO indicators.
achievement)
                The Istanbul Municipality is able to ensure safe and accessible infrastructure
Indicator 2 :
                during and in the aftermath of an earthquake.
Value           No baseline specified in No target specified
                                                                              Not reported by
quantitative or September 2009            in September 2009
                                                                              Borrower.
Qualitative)    restructuring.            restructuring.
Date achieved 09/09/2009                  09/09/2009                          07/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %        PDO indicators not achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                       Target Years
                Rehabilitation and stabilization of creeks: Number and percent of creeks
Indicator 1 :
                rehabilitated.
                                                                             Creek rehabilitation
Value                                                                        started on nine of
                                           No target
(quantitative   No baseline specified                                        the 14 sections, and
                                           specified.
or Qualitative)                                                              partially completed
                                                                             on six of the

                                               vi
                                                                           sections for which
                                                                           contracts had been
                                                                           awarded by project
                                                                           closing.
Date achieved 09/09/2009                 09/09/2009                        07/15/2011
Comments      Creek rehabilitation contracts were awarded for 14 creek sections. Rehabilitation
(incl. %      works commenced on 9 sections and were partially completed on 6 creek
achievement) sections.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     02/07/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
                                                      Moderately
  2     02/01/2009          Satisfactory                                               0.00
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                      Moderately
  3     11/21/2009          Satisfactory                                               0.00
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                      Moderately
  4     06/11/2010         Unsatisfactory                                              0.00
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                      Moderately
  5     12/27/2010         Unsatisfactory                                             13.50
                                                     Unsatisfactory
  6     06/29/2011         Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                   21.70


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Restructuring approved to: a)
                                                     revise the PDO and project
                                                     components; b) extend the
 09/09/2009       Y       S     MU            0.00
                                                     closing date until June 30, 2013;
                                                     and, c) revise the project results
                                                     framework.


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                              Highly Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Highly Unsatisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Highly Unsatisfactory

                                              vii
I. Disbursement Profile
                              -        Original ---- Formally Revised - - Actual
        400


        300

 ~

 c
 0
 $
        200
 i
 ....
 "'
 :::>
        100


          0
              ~           ~              ~           ~           ~          &           ~         ~
                     N            N            N



                             - ..- ..- ..- ..-
                                                            N         N            N        N


              .. .. .. ..
              ....
              N
                     <1
                     •
                     N
                       "' ..
                          "' ..
                          •
                          N
                                  <1


                                  N      N
                                               <1
                                               0

                                               N
                                                     0

                                                     N
                                                            <1


                                                            N    N
                                                                      <1
                                                                      N


                                                                      N
                                                                            N

                                                                            "
                                                                            0
                                                                            N
                                                                                   <1

                                                                                   - ..
                                                                                   ..
                                                                                   "'
                                                                                   N
                                                                                      "'
                                                                                            <1

                                                                                      - ..- ..-
                                                                                        N
                                                                                            '<t

                                                                                            N
                                                                                                  '<t

                                                                                                  N




                                                         viii
1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1    Context at Appraisal

1.     Background. In 2007 when the project was approved, Istanbul’s population was
estimated at 12.5 million. Istanbul is the largest city in Turkey and the country’s main
center of industrial, financial, service and other economic activities. Administratively,
Istanbul is both a metropolitan municipality and a province, contributing 23% of
Turkey’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2007.

2.      An extremely rapid six-fold population increase over the past three decades -
largely a result of the attraction that Istanbul’s expanding labor market exerted on
Turkey’s internal migration - has taxed the capacity of the Istanbul Metropolitan
Municipality (IMM) to provide services to its population. New and often illegal
settlements and industrial plants expanded into environmentally fragile areas such as
creek watercourses that should have been protected as natural resources. Inefficiencies in
collection and safe disposal of solid waste, including industrial waste, have created
potential public health hazards. Istanbul’s problems are exacerbated by its location in
one of the world's most active earthquake zones adjacent to the North Anatolian fault line.
Strong earthquakes are a periodic occurrence and throughout recorded history have struck
the city repeatedly, causing severe damage and loss of life.

3.     Istanbul’s future challenges are even more daunting with the city expected to
double in size over the next 25 years and reach a population of 20-25 million by the year
2030. Accommodating such growth, while maintaining and/or improving the living
conditions of the city’s inhabitants, requires strong coordination and control of urban
development and public service delivery.

4.      The governance structure in Istanbul is complex: as a province, Istanbul is
administered by a Governor who is appointed as the representative of the national
government.      Responsibilities of the Governor include provision of nationally
administered services such as education, health, and disaster management. As a
municipality, governed by the Metropolitan Municipality Law of 2004, Istanbul is
administered through a two-tier local government system that consists of IMM at the top
level and 32 District Municipalities (DMs) at the lower level. The head of IMM is an
elected mayor. IMM is responsible for management of all citywide municipal services
and infrastructure.

5.     The Metropolitan Municipality Law expanded the geographical area of IMM from
1,830 km2 to 5,349 km2, dramatically increasing the investment needs and service
delivery challenges for IMM. The Law also required IMM to prepare both a
Metropolitan Strategic Development Plan and an Environmental Plan to reflect the
demands of the expanded area, identify the corresponding investment needs, and explore
possible sources of financing. The Strategic and Environmental Plans were completed
and approved by the Municipal Council of IMM in 2006. To address its multiple needs
and prepare for future challenges, in 2006 IMM requested the World Bank to assist in


                                            1
financing a first investment program under its strategic plans, focusing on environmental
management and disaster risk reduction.

6.      Rationale for Bank involvement. The project was included in the 2003 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Turkey (Report No. 26756 TU) which pursued four major
objectives: (i) supporting sound macroeconomic management and governance; (ii)
promoting equitable human and social development; (iii) creating a more attractive
business climate; and (iv) strengthening environmental management, and disaster
preparedness and mitigation capacity.

7.      The project aimed to support these CAS objectives by focusing on: (i) critical
environmental problems by upgrading solid waste disposal facilities and safe disposal of
waste; and (ii) strengthening disaster mitigation by improving key infrastructure and
infrastructure services whose continuing operation would be critical in the event of an
earthquake. The project was intended to complement the Istanbul Seismic Risk
Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Project (ISMEP) approved in 2005,
implemented by the Istanbul Special Provincial Directorate, which focused on
strengthening Istanbul’s disaster response capabilities, and reducing risk through seismic
mitigation of public facilities. The project was also intended to work in parallel with the
Municipal Services Project (MSP), approved in 2005 and implemented by Iller Bank,
which supports the provision of infrastructure to medium and small municipalities in
Turkey. It is worth noting that both of the other related municipal projects are
progressing satisfactorily and have been extended with Additional Financing, and, in the
case of ISMEP, with considerable co-financing from other IFIs.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.      The objectives of the project at Board approval were to assist the Istanbul
Metropolitan Municipality in: (a) improving its solid waste management; and (b)
improving its capacity to mitigate earthquakes by retrofitting key facilities and
infrastructure and upgrading the institutions and their procedures to help them respond to
emergencies.

9.      Project Outcome Indicators were: (a) reduced negative impact of solid waste
collection and disposal operations on environment and population; and (b) reduced risk of
breakdown of key municipal services during earthquakes. There were no baseline values
or targets developed for these indicators at Board approval.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
       Indicators, and reasons/justification

10.    For reasons explained in detail below, the project content presented to and
approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors in June 2007 had not been included in the




                                            2
approved investment program for 2007 by the State Planning Organization (SPO) 1, the
national authority responsible for domestic approval of internationally financed projects
in Turkey. Given the mandatory requirement that SPO confirm externally-financed
investments, the project could not proceed with implementation as appraised. After SPO
provided its confirmation of components to be included in the project, a Level I
restructuring was necessary to align the project components with SPO’s approved
allocations and components before implementation could begin.              This Level I
restructuring, approved by the Board on September 9, 2009, was used to: (a) revise the
PDO and project components; (b) extend the closing date until June 30, 2013; and, (c)
revise the project results framework.

11.    The revised objectives of the project were to contribute to: (a) the rehabilitation
and cleanup of unauthorized waste disposal sites and creeks; and (b) the strengthening of
the capacity of the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) to mitigate the impact of
earthquakes by retrofitting infrastructure and providing training to respond to
emergencies more effectively.

12.     The PDO indicators after restructuring were: (a) percentage decrease in water
pollution in the nearest body of water to the dumps and creeks rehabilitated; and, (b) the
ability of the Istanbul Municipality to ensure safe and accessible infrastructure during and
in the aftermath of an earthquake measured by the number of road viaducts retrofitted
according to Turkish seismic standards. However, no baseline values or targets were
developed for these indicators.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

13.     The main beneficiaries of the project were intended to be the population of
Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, which was expected to benefit directly from
improved environmental quality of creeks and watercourses, and from increased
resilience of key municipal infrastructure to earthquake risks. Although unstated in the
original project design or project restructuring of September 2009, the final project
design, whose creek rehabilitation component included civil works for flood mitigation
purposes, would have provided additional flood risk mitigation benefits to populations
living along Istanbul’s many creeks and watercourses.

1.5     Original Components

14.     At Board approval, the project consisted of the following four components:

        •       Component A: Improvements in environmental management: closure of
        existing illegal landfills and rehabilitation of creeks; preparation of annual
        business plans that include operating performance, investment program and
        financial targets and results; and, financing waste collection equipment.


1
 Under a Government-wide restructuring of ministries and public agencies in 2011, the State Planning
Organization was renamed the Ministry of Development.


                                                   3
       •       Component B: strengthening of municipal services and infrastructure:
       preparing a detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems; preparing a
       Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation Plan; retrofitting of municipal
       infrastructure (under-passes, pipelines, viaducts, etc.); and, providing emergency
       fire department equipment.

       •        Component C: Pilot urban transformation program: pilot urban
       transformation feasibility studies; and, retrofitting and construction of buildings,
       fire stations and emergency housing associated with urban transformation in the
       most seismically vulnerable areas.

       •      Component D: Project Management and audits: design studies, surveys
       and technical training for project implementation; and, external audits of project
       accounts.

1.6    Revised Components

15.    At restructuring, revisions were made to the project components to align them
with SPO’s approved investment allocations. The components of the restructured project
were as follows:

       •       Component A: Improvements in solid waste management and
       rehabilitation and cleanup of creeks: (a) closure and rehabilitation of existing
       unauthorized disposal sites for municipal solid waste (landfills) and rehabilitation
       of creeks through creek bed and canal cleaning, protection of stream banks to
       control erosion and loss of bank materials, and rehabilitation and replacement of
       existing rainwater and wastewater pipelines; (b) preparation of annual Business
       Plans for IMM that include operating performance, investment program and
       financial targets and results; and (c) financing waste collection equipment.

       •      Component B: Strengthening of municipal services and infrastructure: (a)
       preparing a detailed risk assessment for all major municipal systems; (b)
       preparing a Municipal Infrastructure Risk Mitigation Plan; (c) retrofitting of
       municipal infrastructure; and, (d) providing emergency fire department
       equipment.

       •       Component C: Pilot urban transformation program: (a) pilot urban
       transformation feasibility studies and preparation of microzonation studies.

       •       Component D: Project Management and audits: (a) design studies, surveys
       and technical training for project implementation; and, (b) external audits of
       project accounts.

16.    The most significant changes were made in Component A, where funding for the
creek rehabilitation subcomponent was expanded substantially to $161.4 million to give


                                             4
more importance to the mitigation of flood-related hazard risks in Istanbul, while funding
for activities related to the solid waste subcomponent was considerably reduced to only
$4.1 million. The other major change was the elimination of the investment activities for
retrofitting and construction of buildings and housing under Component C, which SPO
determined should be funded separately by IMM and not included in the externally
financed project.       Most of the increased funding for the creek rehabilitation
subcomponent came through the savings that resulted from the exclusion of these
activities. The other two components were unchanged although funding for Component
B was reduced in line with the SPO allocations.

1.7    Other significant changes

17.     There was insufficient agreement with the Government’s domestic approval
authorities on the content of the project prior to Board approval. In contrast to the
expected practice for investment lending in Turkey, the project content as described in
the Board package had not been confirmed in SPO’s approved Annual Investment Plan
prior to Board presentation. However, the Bank still sought clearance of the negotiated
documents in order to proceed with Board presentation, even though it was aware that
SPO’s confirmation of project components would not occur before January 2008 when its
Annual Investment Plans are published. The Guarantor’s clearance was conditional with
a caveat that the signing of both the Loan and Guarantee agreements could not proceed
without SPO’s confirmation of the project components.

18.     SPO’s eventual confirmation of project investments in February 2008, introduced
important modifications to the content and allocations of various project components,
which had to be reflected in a subsequent project restructuring before implementation
could begin. As previously indicated, there was a significant increase in allocations for
the creek rehabilitation subcomponent of Component A. While this subcomponent for
creek rehabilitation was included in the approved 2007 Board package, it had been added
during in the context of negotiations, and its preparation and appraisal took place as part
of the preparation of the restructured project.

19.    After the SPO confirmation was in place, and internal procedures for clearance
completed, the Loan Agreement was signed with IMM on July 25, 2008. However, the
signing of the Guarantee Agreement was made a condition of loan effectiveness because
the project could not be accommodated in the Government’s sovereign guarantee
envelope for 2008. Once the 2009 guaranty authority was available, the Guaranty
Agreement was signed on January 13, 2009 and effectiveness was finally declared in
February 2009. The project then had to undergo a Level 1 Restructuring in September
2009 to align it with the SPO-approved components and allocations, before
implementation could begin.

20.    Prior to the restructuring of September 2009, a subcomponent intended to
purchase solid waste cleanup vessels and vessels for firefighting was dropped. While this
component had the support of SPO, the Guarantor and IMM, the Bank deemed that it
could not be included in the restructured project without triggering the International
Waterways Policy (OP/BP 7.50). The Bank and the Government discussed this issue at


                                            5
some length, and Bank management and regional safeguards staff sought options to
resolve the issue both internally and with the Government. However, the Government
objected to the Bank’s interpretation that this policy should be triggered and riparians
notified for a component that covered the purchase of sea vessels that would be used by
IMM to clean up oil spills on the Bosphorus.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

21.     The project, as prepared, was intended to support investments based on Istanbul’s
strategic plan related to environmental management and disaster risk mitigation. Some
flexibility was built in by design for selected physical subprojects, many of which were to
be identified during implementation.            This programmatic approach to design
encompassing a broad range of municipal investments was appropriate for a large
municipality with Istanbul’s capacity and large investment program, and has been
successfully applied in other contexts. It, however, proved ambitious for a first
engagement in the absence of carefully defined implementation arrangements and
procedures and clearly established criteria for prioritization of strategic investments, 2
including selection and preparation of a first year set of investments. Moreover, the
flexibility afforded by a programmatic approach was limited in a context which entailed
lengthy procedures to obtain prior confirmation of externally-financed activities.

22.    The choice of a multi-sector approach was justified on the grounds that it would
provide IMM with a broader capability to address environmental and disaster mitigation
issues. However, given that this was IMM’s first Bank project, and the Bank’s first
municipal project in Turkey, there was a learning curve for both IMM and the Bank. In
the end, much of the implementation focused on ensuring procedural compliance with
Bank rules and procedures rather than institutional strengthening in the management of
IMM’s strategic investment projects.

23.     In analyzing project preparation, design and quality at entry, three features stand
out which reflect the Bank’s shortcomings in its assessment of risks, the adequacy of
mitigation measures, and of project readiness: (a) consensus on project components
appears to have been in flux for a considerable amount of time before and after Board
approval; (b) the absence of a realistic appraisal by the Bank of IMM’s capacity to
manage implementation in compliance with Bank processes, including coordination of a
diverse group of municipal departments, and (c) Safeguards instruments developed for
management of land acquisition and resettlement were not sufficiently robust to guide
implementation, nor were they adapted to actual project components.


2
 A sector note was undertaken concurrently with project preparation that, according to the concept note,
was intended to analyze the strategic plan investments, and establish priorities. However, much of the
analysis in the note which was completed in June 2008, focused on the finances of the municipality and its
associated enterprises, and did not address the original objective.


                                                    6
24.     Lack of agreement on project components. The absence of SPO approval of
project components prior to presentation of the Board package represented a substantial
risk to both project design and implementation, which was not adequately recognized and
addressed.      In addition, project preparation and readiness for implementation were
compromised by the lack of internal agreement on project components, which were still
in a state of flux at the time of Board presentation, as evidenced by the late addition of
the creek rehabilitation component during negotiations. The lack of agreement on
project components ultimately led to design changes, which had to be subsequently
reflected through a restructuring, further delaying the start of implementation.

25.     The Bank was aware that SPO’s confirmation of project components was a
domestic mandatory requirement for all externally financed investments, and that project
effectiveness and implementation would be delayed until the confirmation was in place.
It was also aware of the complex relationships between central and municipal
government, and that their lack of agreement still needed to be resolved. Under these
circumstances, the more prudent course would have been to work out these outstanding
issues as part of project design and preparation, in advance of Board presentation. In fact,
the PAD flagged the absence of SPO confirmation of the project investments as a high
risk for FM, and proposed that SPO confirmation be sought by Board date. This was not
done due to lending pressures, despite the substantial FM risk rating even after mitigation.

26.      Incomplete assessment of IMM’s implementation capacity. The Bank and the
Borrower agreed to embed the project within IMM with a light coordination function
established within the office of the Deputy General Secretary responsible for Finance.
The strategic choice of embedding project management within IMM was considered
“good practice,” in contrast to establishing a project-specific implementation unit.
Nonetheless, the project decision meeting acknowledged the inherent risk of this
management model for project disbursement and procurement, given that this was IMM’s
first project with the Bank. To mitigate this risk, completion of an Operations Manual,
acceptable to the Bank, was made a condition of Board presentation at the decision
meeting. Additional mitigation measures identified in the PAD were: training of IMM
staff in Bank procedures, field presence of the supervision team, and assistance from the
ISMEP team, which had a well-established IPCU.

27.     The mitigating measures proved insufficient in a number of respects. Most
notably, the Operations Manual, provided a very summary description of the project
responsibilities of IMM’s departments, their staff and the project coordinator, contrary to
what had been anticipated at the project decision meeting. While it covered procurement
and financial management processes adequately, it did not identify specific areas
requiring support and strengthening, leaving such issues to be identified at a later date.
Nor did it describe implementation and coordination procedures, reporting requirements
and implementation responsibilities for various components. In hindsight, many of the
subsequent implementation problems resulted from this lack of clarity and specificity
about roles and responsibilities, and the inadequate assessment by the Bank of IMM’s
capacity to incorporate Bank requirements in its internal processes.




                                             7
28.     While the original appraisal had focused on the solid waste component, the
responsibilities, procedures and reporting requirements of different departments for its
implementation are not described in the 2007 Operations Manual. Reportedly IMM
updated the Operations Manual to reflect subsequent project changes. However, it is not
clear from available project documentation that it was provided with adequate guidance
to ensure that the institutional responsibilities and implementation procedures for the
creek rehabilitation component were covered in sufficient detail, and roles and
procedures clarified for the different implementing departments.

29.      After Board approval, the Bank strengthened its field presence with the posting of
the task manager in the field and some training sessions on project-related issues, such as
safeguards, procurement and financial management to IMM. 3 However, the frequent
changes in staff within IMM implementing departments meant that continuity and
institutional knowledge was difficult to maintain. There was further loss of continuity
with the changes in key Bank staff who had been engaged in project preparation but who
did not remain during the implementation phase, including some who were never
replaced.

30.     Inadequacy of supporting social safeguards instruments. The project was
classified as FI in November 2006 at the project concept stage, based on the
understanding that the specific subprojects, which could cover the range of environmental
classifications, would only be identified during implementation. In keeping with the FI
classification, an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) and Land Acquisition
and Resettlement Policy Framework (LARP) were prepared. At the time of restructuring,
the appropriateness of the FI classification for a non-financial intermediary project was
raised. However, the PP notes that the classification was retained for the sake of
continuity as the EMF was already in place and IMM staff had been trained accordingly.

31.     The problems that arose during implementation were not caused by the
classification. Both the EMF and environmental safeguards were adequately treated in
project preparation and restructuring. Instead, the problems centered on land acquisition
and resettlement (OP4.12). In part, they reflected weaknesses in the original preparation
of the LARP, which had been approved by the Bank in 2007, as it did not provide
sufficient guidance for planning and preparing resettlement action plans (RAPs). More
importantly, it was not strengthened or adapted to reflect the challenges of creek
rehabilitation at restructuring, which was a critical oversight.

32.     Implementation could have proceeded more smoothly, if, during project
preparation and restructuring, social safeguards had received the same level of attention
and guidance given to developing and testing instruments for environmental safeguards.
This would have required greater emphasis on developing a LARP that covered potential
situations, set out clear principles, criteria and procedural steps, and reached a consensus



3
 Training in social safeguards was provided in November 2008, as part of an overall training session on
safeguards, with the regional social safeguards coordinator making the presentation. Several training
sessions on procurement and financial management are reported to have taken place.


                                                    8
on measures to bridge the gaps between Turkish law and Bank policy requirements.
Instead, these instruments had to be developed during the course of implementation, or
applied retroactively as described in more detail in Section 2.4.

33.      The project documentation for both the original and restructured project indicated
that the LARP had been prepared as “a precautionary measure” intended to provide
flexibility in the event that subprojects were presented that might require public land to
be cleared or private land to be acquired. Yet, despite having allowed for this flexibility,
there was little effort to ensure that the instruments were robust enough to treat potential
cases of resettlement should they arise. The general expectation was that resettlement
would not be required, as activities would be undertaken on public land and within
existing rights of way. This proved to be a serious oversight in the absence of specific
criteria for the selection of creeks to be rehabilitated under the project. Moreover, given
that flooding is a significant disaster risk in Istanbul, limiting creek rehabilitation
activities to cleaning up existing systems for environmental purposes did not reflect
IMM’s interest in mitigating the risk of devastating floods and associated loss of life.

34.     A further complicating factor was the extension of a clause in the 2007 Board
approved Loan Agreement that had precluded resettlement under Component C– pilot
urban transformation –to cover all components in the restructured project. This overall
ban was inconsistent with the claim in both the original and restructured project that the
LARP was intended to allow flexibility. Moreover, the notion that urban transformation
could take place without resettlement was naïve at best. For this provision to be applied,
it would unnecessarily restrict dealing with a large creek rehabilitation program where
resettlement is, at times, unavoidable to ensure the safety of residents, and mitigate the
severity of the flooding problems caused by encroachment. This was underscored in the
2008 feasibility study for the creek rehabilitation component, which identified
encroachment on Istanbul’s creeks as one of the major causes of flooding, and suggested
that the design of an effective creek rehabilitation program might entail land acquisition
and resettlement.

2.2    Implementation

35.      The project was in unsatisfactory implementation status from January 2009 until
its closure in July 2011. At that time, fourteen contracts had been signed under the creek
rehabilitation component, with disbursements of US$ 22 million (7% of total project
financing). The considerable procedural delays in the start of implementation, the
changes in priorities and the lack of attention by the Bank and the Borrower in ensuring
the adequacy of the project’s systems and procedures and their consistency with evolving
priorities and activities significantly affected project implementation and outcomes.

36.     Implementation was essentially put on hold from Board approval in 2007 until the
project was restructured in late 2009. During that period, project activities were
effectively an extension of the preparation and design phase and its restructuring,
including: resolving procedural issues, confirmation of project components, design and
preparation of the creek rehabilitation component, including an EMF and EMPs, and



                                             9
preparation of an initial set of procurement packages for the microzonation, fire-fighting
equipment and creek components.

37.     After the restructuring, the Bank engaged IMM on ways and means to move
implementation forward. Progress was made on initiating works on the creek
rehabilitation component, but was very slow on other components. It was intended that a
second Level I restructuring would take place by the end of 2010 to address the
implementation deficiencies, cancel activities that had been included in the September
2009 restructuring that IMM no longer intended to undertake, and to scale back the
project to a more manageable size through partial cancellation of the IBRD loan.

38.      A restructuring proposal was submitted by IMM in April 2011. However, the
restructuring and mid-term review mission later that month revealed serious
shortcomings in project implementation, particularly with respect to IMM’s handling of
land acquisition and resettlement under the creek rehabilitation component, which made
it difficult to proceed with restructuring, and ultimately led to the decision to cancel the
project.

39.     The senior management of IMM played a very active role in communicating with
the Bank and assessing project implementation during the period from March to June
2011. IMM management spent considerable time and effort in evaluating alternative
implementation arrangements for the project. Finally, they concluded that due to internal
limitations and the differences between local regulations and World Bank policies, the
implementation problems could not be easily overcome, nor could implementation
arrangements be quickly revised. Therefore, in close consultation with the Bank and the
Guarantor, and in recognition of the risks faced by all three parties of continuing with a
non-performing project, IMM requested cancellation of the remaining loan funds and
closure of the project.

40.      As a result of IMM’s request, which was supported by the Bank and the
Guarantor, implementation was stopped on July 13, 2011 and all remaining loan funds
were cancelled, resulting in a total disbursement of US$ 22.44 million of the original
US$ 322.15 million over the life of the project. Aside from the creek rehabilitation
component, the two other activities (microzonation and fire safety) under implementation
at the time of cancellation, were not subject to the same implementation issues and had
been expected to be completed. However, upon cancellation of the entire project, these
activities were also stopped.

41.    Factors affecting Implementation

42.     Shortly after the 2009 restructuring, the Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
undertook a disbursement learning review of the project, which identified major issues
affecting project implementation. It took note of the lack of project readiness at the time
of approval, the effectiveness delay caused by the delay in providing guarantee authority,
and the lengthy process for achieving internal consensus on project design changes,
which were ultimately reflected in restructuring.




                                            10
43.     The review identified the following factors on the part of the government: (i) the
difficulties in obtaining timely clearances and approvals for both the loan guarantee and
components to be included in the project; and (ii) Istanbul’s relatively strong financial
position which allowed it to finance activities with its own funds when it deemed Bank
policies/requirements to be either too burdensome or too slow. The issues identified on
the part of the Bank were: (i) the decision to opt for a first order restructuring, (ii)
stringent interpretation of the application of OP7.50 requirements for notifying riparians
before Istanbul could purchase sea vessels to clean up the Bosphorous; and (iii)
inadequate procurement planning, which led to delays in reviews and approvals. The
review’s conclusion that the changes in design appeared to require a simple reallocation
among components overlooks the fact that the creek rehabilitation component had not
been defined and appraised at the time of Board approval.

44.     The key issues that are indicative of, and contributed to implementation
difficulties reflect many of the weaknesses in project preparation that were identified
earlier. They include: (a) the long lag time between Board approval and effectiveness,
(which has been discussed previously); (b) the incomplete restructuring and revision of
instruments; (c) changing priorities during implementation; (d) IMM’s inability to
incorporate necessary systems for successful implementation; and (e) inadequacies in
project management and coordination.

45.      Incomplete Restructuring and Revision of Instruments. The restructuring was
justified in the Project Paper (PP as being necessary “to align the project components
with the evolving priorities of the IMM within the framework of the national investment
budget approved by the Turkish State Planning Organization.” The creek rehabilitation
sub-component, took on greater significance in its own right, as an important measure to
mitigate the risks of flooding, and accounted for half of total project financing. The PP
indicated that the main rationale for the increased importance of activities under this
component was IMM’s request to expand funding for creek rehabilitation due to “the
urgent need to mitigate risks against flooding.” Yet, the revised objectives and indicators
did not reflect this rationale. Instead, the objectives focused on the environmental aspects
of cleaning up creeks. Similarly, the indicators made no reference to mitigation of flood
risks, but were measured by the decline in pollutants.

46.     The restructuring PP defined the activities to be financed under the creek
rehabilitation subcomponent as “cleaning creek bed and canals, protection of stream
banks and rehabilitation and replacement of existing rainwater and wastewater pipelines.”
The very large addition of resources for these activities warranted review and
modification of the appraisal analysis, and a separate analysis of its benefits and risks,
since it had not been an integral part of the original appraisal. However, the PPP
effectively treated the restructuring as though it was a matter of reallocation of resources
from one component (pilot urban transformation) to another (creek rehabilitation).

47.     Implementation was adversely affected by the failure to fully analyze the
additional risks and benefits that this subcomponent might entail, or to establish criteria
for the selection of creeks to be rehabilitated. The general assumption appears to have
been that the significant expansion of the creek rehabilitation activities would not affect


                                            11
the institutional arrangements and associated implementation processes, or the identified
risks and benefits of the project as appraised. As a result project implementation
processes and tools, such as the Operations Manual and LARP, were not adapted to
reflect the requirements of the largest component of the restructured project.

48.     Changing Priorities During Implementation. While the restructuring allowed
the creek rehabilitation component to move forward, progress on implementation of other
components was quite slow as a result of lengthy procurement processes, and was
affected by changes in IMM priorities. The degree to which these changes were
influenced by the significant lag in the start of implementation, and the heavy emphasis
on procedural compliance, is difficult to ascertain based on existing documentation.
However, at least in the case of the solid waste component, for which preparation of
consultant procurement packages was started in late 2009, IMM later made it clear that it
had found other means of dealing with the issue of unauthorized dumps, and would not
need to use Bank financing for this component.

49. In October 2010, IMM reported in a letter to the Bank that it no longer intended to
carry out many of the activities listed in the September 2009 Project Paper, including
the rehabilitation of illegal waste dumps and most of the technical assistance. Its stated
priorities were: (i) the rehabilitation of creeks for flood control purposes, under
Component A, (ii) providing emergency vehicles to the fire department, and limiting
seismic strengthening of city bridges and viaducts, under component B and (iii)
microzonation studies under Component C. In short, within a year from the start of
implementation, IMM decided to largely limit project components to the activities that
were already underway. The changes in priorities implied that a second first order
restructuring would be necessary to align objectives and components with the actual
project activities and priorities of IMM, and reduce the size of the loan.

50. Inability to Develop Necessary Systems for Successful Implementation. A
critical deficiency was related to IMM’s implementation of safeguards policies, in
particular OP4.12. No system was developed for IMM to plan, prepare, implement and
report on land acquisition and resettlement under the project. As Section 2.4.1 below
describes in detail, it was not possible to remedy this deficiency before project closure.
Similarly, project monitoring and reporting systems were not sufficiently developed
prior to the start of implementation, and remained inadequate throughout the
implementation period, with only one progress report produced by IMM.

51.    Weaknesses in Project Management and coordination capacity. Implementation
was adversely affected by weaknesses in the project management structure, which was
characterized by:

    •   Insufficient authority of the project coordinator to coordinate the actions of
        diverse implementing departments and ensure compliance with project
        requirements;
    •   Insufficient capacity to carry out the project functions in line with Bank
        implementation requirements; and
    •   Inadequacy of overall project monitoring and reporting.


                                             12
52.     Despite IMM’s appointment of a full time coordinator in July 2010, coordination
authority to ensure compliance by the staff in implementing departments remained weak.
Staffing of key implementation functions was subject to frequent changes in some
instances, or was insufficient in others. At the same time, the inadequacy of the reporting
and monitoring systems and ambiguity regarding associated roles and responsibilities
made the task of coordination and ensuring compliance even more difficult. The project
implementation management issues finally came to a head at the time of the mid-
term/restructuring mission in late April 2011. At that point, the continued lack of
progress in resolving safeguards compliance and other implementation issues led the
Bank to conclude that the decentralized implementation arrangements were unworkable
and needed to be replaced with a designated unit with qualified staff.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

53.     The design of project monitoring during project preparation was inadequate as the
results framework in the PAD provided few baselines and targets and the indicators were
not measurable. During the September 2009 restructuring, the indicators were improved
significantly, although the two PDO indicators were still vague and the indicators for the
first objective did not reflect the importance of creek rehabilitation as a flood control
measure. In the absence of significant data collection, indicators could not be measured,
and no baselines and targets were developed for the restructured project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1 Safeguards Compliance / Social:

54.     A central issue that led to IMM’s decision to cancel the project in July 2011 was
non-compliance with the World Bank social safeguard policy on Involuntary
Resettlement (OP4.12) as it related to land acquisition and resettlement under the creek
rehabilitation component. Due diligence on land acquisition and resettlement aspects was
recorded in the initial 2007 (Board approval version) ISDS and elsewhere in the project
files: “The project is expected to take place on public land or within existing rights of
way and it is not expected that any project activities will entail any land acquisition,
relocation of population, or result in restricting the access of individuals or communities
to economic resources. However, as a precautionary measure to enable a quick response
in case the final design of any activities should unexpectedly call for the expropriation of
private land or relocation of people or businesses, the IMM has prepared a Resettlement
Policy Framework satisfactory to the Bank that will ensure compliance with OP 4.12, and
hence the safeguard is triggered as a precautionary measure.”

55.     During the 2009 restructuring process, the ISDS was revised and re-dated. The
same policies were triggered: OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment; OP4.11, Cultural
Property, and OP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement. The section on OP 4.12 was unchanged
from the above-cited text, indicating that land acquisition and resettlement impacts were
still seen as likely to be quite minor. Accordingly, the LARP accepted Turkish


                                            13
legislation on expropriation and treatment of informal settlers, while also requiring that
IMM prepare and submit land acquisition plans for Bank approval, and ensure public
consultation.

56.     While the supervision missions in late 2009 until March 2010 also did not foresee
major resettlement requirements, the team was conscious from the start of the potential
risks and provided guidance to help IMM establish adequate planning, monitoring and
reporting on resettlement and land acquisition. Initially, the primary concern of
supervision missions, starting in late 2009, was to ensure adequate documentation and
reporting by IMM on land acquisition as required by the LARP. The reporting problems
were attributed to: a) the lack of adequate guidance in the LARP as to IMM’s planning,
monitoring and reporting obligations, and b) the weak inter-departmental collaboration
and communications on expropriation matters.

57.     Over the course of implementation, it became clear that the effective
rehabilitation of creeks for the purposes of flood control was likely to entail more
significant requirements for land acquisition and resettlement than had originally been
anticipated in the social safeguards due diligence documentation. In addition to their
vulnerability to being used as wild dumpsites, Istanbul’s creeks are crucial for protecting
the city from flooding by providing storm water drainage along their natural contours. In
light of the frequency of severe flood events, it is understandable and even desirable that
IMM sought to augment the capacity of the creeks. In fact, the reports on creek
rehabilitation, submitted by IMM to the Bank, as part of the preparation of the
restructured project, specifically stated that due to the damage and associated loss of life
caused by frequent flooding, IMM intended to expand the capacity of those creeks that it
deemed risky. This should have alerted the project restructuring team of the need to
review the consequences of such works for land acquisition and potentially resettlement,
and the adequacy of the existing LARP in addressing these requirements.

58.     In view of the emerging significance of land acquisition and resettlement during
implementation, it became clear to the supervision team that the LARP that had been
established would need to be revised and considerably strengthened to provide policy-
compliant resettlement plans and actions. The Bank worked intensively with IMM to
develop adequate systems for managing resettlement and land acquisition issues. The
intention was to establish acceptable policy- compliant procedures, (including a complete
revision and strengthening of the LARP, and RAPs), and have the system in place prior
to the proposed second restructuring, at which time the clause banning resettlement could
be lifted. However, the difficulties of correcting existing deficiencies in social safeguards
systems, and applying ex post remedial actions soon became evident, as the cases of
Beykoz and Kurbagalidere creeks, described below, illustrate.

59.     To develop more robust systems for handling and reporting on resettlement and
land acquisition issues, a consultant was hired by IMM in October 2010 to undertake a
social assessment of Beykoz Creek, where rehabilitation of the lower creek sections had
already been completed by IMM, and World Bank funding was sought to complete the
upper section. It was known that resettlement had already taken place at the site, and that
more resettlement would be needed in the future. It was expected that the social


                                             14
assessment would lead to a final, Bank-compliant report that would facilitate immediate
progress on Beykoz Creek and serve as a prototype report for future creek rehabilitation.

60.     The report produced in November 2010 revealed that, on the positive side, IMM
had taken solid steps to minimize land-related and resettlement impacts, and that land
acquisition processes were generally applied in a fair manner and consistent with
domestic policy requirements. However, it also indicated that the actions taken in
Beykoz with respect to some of the 12 households that had been relocated some time
before the signing of the contracts, did not comply with OP4.12 due to gaps between
domestic and Bank requirements, or special circumstances surrounding individual
cases. 4 While the report could not be considered a full RAP and did not provide specific
recommendations on remedial actions, the Bank requested that IMM indicate whether it
would, in principle, be willing and able to provide remedial assistance to affected
households.

61.     In late March 2011, IMM responded in writing, indicating that the actions it had
already taken at Beykoz were in line with Turkish laws and regulations and that such
legislation did not allow retroactive remedial actions once legal processes were
completed. It, however, indicated that it would take on board the issues raised by the
report in future rehabilitation activities to ensure compliance with OP4.12. The non-
compliance with the World Bank resettlement policy and the legal agreement made it
impossible for the Bank to provide a no-objection to the bid evaluation report for civil
works at Beykoz Creek.

62.     During the mid-term-restructuring mission in late April 2011, visits were made to
all creeks that had either been proposed by IMM or were already under implementation.
Key features of each creek, including land acquisition and access aspects, were assessed
by order of difficulty with respect to resettlement impacts. At that time, the mission
observed that IMM had made significant design changes at Kadikoy Kurbagalidere Creek
E-5 section after the signing of the creek rehabilitation contract, without obtaining a no-
objection from the Bank. These changes had resulted in cases of physical resettlement,
without aid of a RAP, and in spite of the Loan Agreement’s preclusion of such
resettlement.

    63. Beyond, the issues at this site, the mission also found additional problems related
    to implementation of resettlement, which rendered restructuring very difficult: (1)
    Bidding on two creek rehabilitation contracts had started without site-specific drawings
    and without the World Bank’s review and clearances for EMPs and RAPs; and (2)
    Reports provided to the Bank on resettlement and expropriation were often inconsistent,


4
  The Beykoz contract was signed in 2010 and the inclusion of this creek in the project was finalized at the
time of restructuring in 2009. While the 2010 consultant report does not indicate the actual date that houses
were demolished, and households relocated, it makes reference to the 2006 floods as the main cause of the
expropriation under emergency measures, and resettlement of the 12 households who had already had their
houses demolished. It also indicates that these households had spent about two years as tenants until they
could rebuild or relocate to more permanent housing in the same area.



                                                     15
and did not accurately reflect reality on the ground, particularly with regard to the
presence of informal structures which were not taken into account. The overall
deficiencies in reporting resettlement and the weaknesses in the procurement practices
and implementation arrangements led the Bank to request that IMM take actions beyond
remedying the specific violations that had been observed at Kurbagalidere Creek.

64. In a letter to IMM, Bank Management on April 27, 2011, requested that IMM : a)
confer the creek rehabilitation component to experienced personnel or entities; b)
suspend civil works on all contracts where resettlement had occurred, or was expected to
occur, until a full review had been completed; c) suspend bidding and contract signing
on creek rehabilitation until completion of remedial actions on all creeks; and d) ensure
that no further land acquisition and resettlement take place until the project is
restructured and the Loan Agreement amended to allow for resettlement.

65. In addition, to remedy the deficiencies in the instruments and institutional
arrangements for social safeguards, IMM was asked to:

   •   Establish a project coordination unit through assignment of full time qualified
       personnel for key project management functions, such as procurement and
       safeguards;
   •   Revise the LARP to produce a resettlement policy-compliant framework that
       includes provisions related to all project-affected persons, (PAPs), social surveys
       of and consultation with PAPs, and for the preparation of RAPs where surveys
       indicate that resettlement may be required;
   •   Carry out RAPs as a routine part of subproject planning, and prior to the bidding
       of contracts; and
   •   Hire a social expert to carry out a full social survey of all creek sections to
       provide a full and complete assessment of current status.



66.     Discussions continued between IMM and Bank management throughout May and
June 2011, with IMM responding positively indicating its willingness to address most of
these issues. It did, in fact, report that it had suspended construction on the
Kurbagalidere contract. It also suspended bidding and contract signing, and confirmed
that no future resettlement would take place. However, as the pending issues with
respect to revisions in implementation arrangements and instruments could not be
satisfactorily resolved in a reasonably short time frame, and in light of the residual risks
to the Borrower, Guarantor and the Bank, the project, as previously noted, was cancelled
in July 2011, at IMM’s request.

2.4.2 Safeguard Compliance / Environmental:
67.    Compliance with environmental safeguards was generally satisfactory.
Safeguards issues were adequately addressed during the original project preparation in
2007. An environmental assessment framework was prepared in January 2007 by IMM.
In addition, a general environmental assessment report and Environmental Management



                                            16
Plan (EMP) was prepared and disclosed in February 2007, reflecting the solid waste
subcomponent that was originally the principal activity under Component A.

68.     During the restructuring in September 2009, the ISDS was revised to include
provisions for the creek rehabilitation. The safeguard policies triggered remained the
same, and again a general EMP was prepared for the creek rehabilitation component.
Sub-project specific EMPs were prepared, and were included in the bidding documents
and shared with the contractors. While there was general compliance with the site
specific EMPs, the mid-term review mission found that there were problems with the
mitigation measures and Bank reporting requirements related to physical and cultural
property on three sites. These issues were brought to the attention of IMM, in the April
27, 2011 management letter, and IMM was asked to update the EMPs of the three
affected creek contracts to reflect the authorizations received and actions needed in and
around the cultural property. Authorization was obtained or sought on two of the sites,
but the EMPs were not updated at the time of project closure. However, there was no
adverse impact since construction did not start at any of the sites by project closure.

2.4.3 Fiduciary Compliance:
69.     IMM’s procurement performance remained weak until the cancellation of the
project. Accordingly, the procurement risk rating prior to project cancellation was
substantial.

70.    The management and implementation of procurement, was hampered by the
fragmented implementation arrangements, the lack of central coordinating and control
mechanisms, understaffing of the procurement function and frequent changes in
personnel. As a result, procurement planning and contract management were weak on
the creek rehabilitation component, with delays in contract execution, and significant
design changes, which were not reported to the Bank for a no-objection.

71.     In general, procurement under the microzonation and fire safety components was
less problematic in terms of the process, but proceeded quite slowly without reaching the
contract award stage before closure. The preparation of both packages was quite lengthy,
having started even before the restructuring, with significant back and forth between the
Bank and the IMM. While the procurement of the microzonation package was finally bid
in 2011, contract award was cancelled due to project closure. Preparation of the fire
equipment package was ultimately completed, but the procurement process was not
started due to the project closure.

72.     In contrast, IMM took steps to enhance the financial management procedures
relating to the project once the project was declared effective. It integrated the project
accounting into its main financial management system and generated the Interim
Unaudited Financial Reports automatically from the system.

73.     The marginally unsatisfactory rating for financial management at the time the
project was cancelled was due to weaknesses that had been identified in the last FM
supervision, for which actions were pending, and had not been reviewed by the Bank
prior to closing.


                                           17
2.5 Post Completion Operation/Next Phase

74.    Not applicable as the assets intended to be financed under the project have not
been completed.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

75.     The relevance of the PDO as defined in the PAD remains high. Improving
environmental management and reducing vulnerability to disasters was and still is a high
priority for Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality. The PDO fit well with the Bank’s
strategy in Turkey at the time, and complemented other ongoing Bank-financed projects
in Istanbul and other municipalities in Turkey.

76.     The relevance of the project design was weak insofar as the relative priority of
various components and their alignment with stated objectives changed over the course of
project preparation, restructuring and implementation. Moreover, implementation
arrangements and procedures proved to be inadequate to the task of ensuring effective
implementation in line with Bank procedural requirements and achievement of PDOs.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

77.     The project did not make any progress towards achieving its development
objectives, given the limited implementation of planned activities.

3.3 Efficiency
Not Applicable.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

78.    Although the project was relevant at appraisal and remains relevant in terms of
Istanbul’s priorities for infrastructure development and disaster risk reduction, its
outcome is rated as highly unsatisfactory given its failure to achieve all of its intended
PDOs.

3.5   Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

79.    Not Applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

80.   Not applicable, since none of the institutional strengthening activities and studies,
which were intended to improve IMM’s capacity to plan for urban environmental
management and disaster risk reduction were carried out.


                                            18
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

81.    Not applicable.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

82.    Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: High

83.     The risk to development outcome is rated High, as most key activities under the
project were not implemented.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

a. Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory

84. Bank inputs and processes during project preparation were inadequate.
Adjustments to the project appraisal were not made as project components changed to
ensure readiness of the project, prior to Board submission. Project preparation did not
consider major details for effective implementation by ensuring that there was a well-
structured Operations Manual that created a framework for successful implementation of
the Project with clearly spelled out coordination, reporting and monitoring
responsibilities and functions. The Bank also did not adequately assess the Borrower’s
capacity to comply with the Bank’s safeguards and fiduciary procedures and identify
relevant technical assistance to strengthen these functions, beyond training sessions.

85. During project preparation the issue of land acquisition and resettlement was not
addressed satisfactorily, nor was this deficiency addressed at the time of restructuring
when the creek rehabilitation component was better defined. While the project
documentation allowed some flexibility to respond to situations where resettlement
might be necessary, the legal agreement on the restructured project banned resettlement.
Instead of addressing the land acquisition and resettlement requirements of the creek
rehabilitation program, the assumption seems to have been that the project would not
require resettlement, or could exclude works on creeks where resettlement might be
necessary. These deficiencies should have been better addressed by the project team,
but were also overlooked by the sector and country management units that could have
proposed corrective actions and other means of addressing these important gaps.




                                          19
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Unsatisfactory


86.      During the period between Board approval and restructuring, the supervision
activities were essentially a continuation of the preparation phase. The field-based team
worked to resolve procedural issues of clearances, as well as reach agreement on project
components, the restructuring of the project, and preparation of the creek component,
including an initial procurement package, so it could be initiated shortly after
restructuring. The Bank also provided guidance on IMM’s preparation of procurement
packages for both the microzonation and fire-fighting equipment during this period.

87.     Many of the weaknesses that affected the original preparation were carried
through the restructuring. Specifically, these included a weak focus on implementation
processes, reporting requirements, roles and responsibilities for different components,
and the inadequacy and ambiguity with respect to social safeguards instruments. While
there was continuity in the staffing of the environmental function throughout the period,
social safeguards did not receive adequate attention beyond a training session in
November 2008. Nor was there adequate staffing of the social safeguards function to
review the implications of the creek rehabilitation component at the time of restructuring,
despite requests for assignment of staff.

88.      The Bank’s supervision activity during this period was not recorded in formal
detailed reporting by the field-based team in the form of aide memoires or management
letters. Moreover, only a limited number of Back to Office reports were issued during this
period to record findings of missions.        The lack of a formal written record of
communications on critical issues and understandings, as emphasized by IMM
management, affected the level of attention given to project implementation issues and
required actions. It also impacted the transition to a new team that took on supervision
when project implementation started shortly after the restructuring in late 2009.
Surprisingly, there was no supervision handover mission on what was a complex project
that had already experienced significant procedural delays, and a restructuring.

89.     After the restructuring, (i.e., when actual implementation started), supervision
reporting was significantly intensified in late 2009 by the Bank’s new team. More formal
and frequent short missions were undertaken, with five aide memoires and management
letters issued, and timely responses from IMM. Notably, safeguards supervision was
strengthened and included three social safeguard specialists (including the Lead Social
Specialist in the ECA Regional Safeguards compliance unit who participated in 3
missions in 2010). An intensive mid-term/project restructuring mission was undertaken
that made significant recommendations for remedying project deficiencies. However, as
evidenced by the final outcome, even such intensified supervision, could not ensure
successful implementation.




                                            20
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory. The overall unsatisfactory rating is based on the highly
unsatisfactory performance at entry, unsatisfactory performance during supervision, and
the final project outcome.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
90.     The Government’s performance under the project is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory. During preparation, the domestic project preparation and approval
process was not handled efficiently, particularly the delay in issuing the sovereign
guarantee 19 months after Board approval, which substantially delayed project
effectiveness.  The rating of moderately unsatisfactory, however, reflects the
Government’s positive contribution at the final stages of the project to facilitate project
closure.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

91.      IMM’s performance under the Project is rated unsatisfactory. Despite substantial
efforts made during the preparation phase and the diligence of IMM staff in trying to
address problems that arose on the creek rehabilitation sub-projects, these were not
sufficient to overcome earlier weaknesses in project implementation, particularly
regarding adherence to some procurement and safeguard procedures. Given IMM’s
unfamiliarity with World Bank financing procedures and guidelines, it is understandable
that it did not fully appreciate the challenges of managing the project through its internal
departments, while incorporating Bank requirements and meeting its obligations under
the Project.

92.    During the period after Board approval through restructuring, IMM was engaged
in preparation of the creek rehabilitation component, maintaining a steady dialogue with
the Bank on the restructuring documentation and preparation of the initial procurement
documents.      However, during implementation, IMM was not able to satisfactorily
address deficiencies in project coordination, procurement, safeguards compliance, and
progress reporting. To its credit, its management took on a proactive and collaborative
approach to resolve the issues raised in the mid-term restructuring mission, and when it
became clear that the implementation deficiencies could not be resolved, it sought
cancellation of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

93.   The overall rating of Borrower performance as Unsatisfactory is based on a
combined assessment of the Moderately Unsatisfactory Government performance,



                                            21
Unsatisfactory Implementing Agency performance, and the Highly Unsatisfactory project
outcome.

6. Lessons Learned

94.     Early closure of project. The proactive and consultative approach taken by the
Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank in closing the project when their joint assessment
showed that the problems hindering implementation could not be easily resolved is a
positive lesson from this project. This proactive approach allowed all parties to manage
risk and minimize the cost of an unsuccessful project.

95.     Resettlement as part of urban development. The project’s assumption that
effective creek rehabilitation and flood control works could be undertaken without the
need for land acquisition and/or resettlement was flawed. In projects of this type, the
need for land acquisition and resettlement is often necessary to ensure safe development
and provide social benefits. Treatment of OP4.12 should be integrated into project
design, such that social impact can be proactively understood, minimized, and mitigated
ex ante.

96.     Moreover in a country, such as Turkey, where there is a highly developed set of
rules for social protection, the emphasis should be on consistency of outcomes, and
agreement upfront on specific measures to bridge the gap between local requirements and
Bank policy and procedures. In this respect, the recent report by the ECA Operational
Services and Quality department, which compares Turkey’s policies with those of the
World Bank is an important contribution. It provides a good guide for how differences
could be addressed in future projects. The report tackles the question of which procedural
differences are really significant, making it important to ensure full adherence to WB
requirements, and when it is desirable to exercise some flexibility as long as the
outcomes are acceptable and consistent with WB policies. This focus on outcomes rather
than a rigid imposition of procedures for compliance requires an understanding on the
part of Bank teams of local practices and results, and of the legislative constraints facing
the client.

97.      Ownership for project preparation and implementation. It was clear that the
Borrower wanted to engage with the Bank, but together they were not able to find the
best way to do so. IMM continued to demonstrate its interest in engaging with the Bank,
with its move to sign the Loan Agreement once it had obtained SPO approval. However,
given what was known about the level of preparation, and the lack of ownership of the
original project components at the central level, it would have been prudent for Bank
management to have taken a more conservative approach with respect to the Board
approval timeline, and not present the project to the Board until it was fully ready. At
restructuring, there was a chance to adjust the project to more fully reflect the priority of
the creek rehabilitation program for flood control purposes, which appears to have had
full “ownership” by the Borrower.

98.     Quality control during restructuring. The outcome of this project indicates that
in the case of a major reallocation of resources or significant changes in the priority of


                                             22
components through restructuring, a greater use of the Bank’s internal quality control
mechanisms, such as a full decision-meeting, and peer reviews would likely improve the
outcome of the restructuring.

99.     Implementation Capacity Assessment. While the decentralized management of
the project proved to be problematic in this instance, it is not evident that a dedicated
stand-alone PIU structure would have necessarily produced a more satisfactory outcome.
Resolution of many of the issues that arose during implementation required engagement
of IMM departmental staff and decisions by the IMM management. While a PIU
management structure might have simplified the process of Bank supervision, its
effectiveness in achieving PDO’s and ensuring smooth implementation would still have
required adequate processes and authority for the PIU to interface and coordinate with
various implementing departments and entities.

100. To manage the risks of a decentralized management model, more rigor is needed
in the assessment of implementation capacity, even when the implementing agency
responsible for a project is generally perceived to be of high capacity. Istanbul’s ability
to undertake a large infrastructure program was not at issue. However, its ability to
incorporate Bank processes and comply with the project-related requirements was
untested. A sound understanding of the implementing agency’s own procedures and
practices is required to determine how project-specific requirements will be incorporated
into the agency’s regular work flow. Any gaps and/or procedural differences should be
carefully analyzed and agreements on how these gaps would be bridged should be put in
place at appraisal through the Operations Manual and project documentation. Where
such an assessment identifies gaps in capacity to carry out project implementation
functions, organizational strengthening should be provided in a timely and targeted
manner.

101. Flexible project design. Projects that support a large number of different
investments, not all of which may be fully identified before appraisal, require careful
project design. Successful projects of this type take significant care before appraisal to
clarify the project components, and establish, through the project’s legal agreements,
specific and rigorous eligibility criteria for investments under each component. Most
importantly, they identify the first year’s investments, which are fully prepared through
feasibility study, EA and RAP stage prior to project appraisal. Alternatively, if such
projects are intended to provide flexibility in support of a priority investment program,
the overall program along with criteria for selection of investments, capacity for
implementation and internal implementation procedures are appraised and project-
specific adjustments to internal processes are identified, and agreed to. In both instances
procedures and requirements for the project are established, appraised and agreed prior to
Board approval of the project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments of the Guarantor, Borrower and Implementing Agency reflect the findings of
the ICR with regard to: (i) the ambitious timetable for project preparation that didn’t


                                            23
allow sufficient time for preparing and appraising several elements of the project and
ensuring full ownership by project stakeholders; (ii) the inadequacy of the project at
design stage in taking full cognizance of the likely need for resettlement and land
acquisition and associated safeguard measures; (iii) a breakdown in communications
during implementation due to a weak documentary record of understandings reached
during missions as typically reflected in mission Aide Memoires; and (iv) a lack of
familiarity on the part of the Bank of the Government of Turkey’s procedures for
committing external financing.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                         24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                  Percentage of
         Components           Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                   Appraisal
                                 millions)        millions)


         Total Baseline Cost        336.15             22.44          6.7%

Contingencies                      N/A
                                                        0.00
          Total Project Costs       336.15             22.44          6.7%
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.00              0.00
   Total Financing Required         336.15             22.44          6.7%




(b) Financing
                                              Appraisal Actual/Late
                                   Type of     Estimate st Estimate Percentage
        Source of Funds
                                 Cofinancing     (USD        (USD    of Appraisal
                                               millions)   millions)
Borrower                                     14.00       0.00        0%
International Bank for
                                              322.15     22.44       7.0%
Reconstruction and Development




                                         25
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


   Project component as per September 2009          Implementation status and outputs at time of
               Restructuring Paper                           project closure in July 2011
Component 1. Improvements in Solid Waste Management and Rehabilitation and Cleanup of
Creeks (Cost $165.5 million)
a. Closure and rehabilitation of existing         Closure and rehabilitation of municipal solid
unauthorized disposal sites for municipal solid waste landfills did not commence.
waste (landfills) and rehabilitation of creeks as
well as replacement existing rainwater and        Creek rehabilitation contracts signed on 14
wastewater pipelines;                             sections; works commenced on 9 creek
                                                  sections, which were partially financed as per
                                                  table below. None of the contracts were
                                                  finalized prior to project closure.
b. Preparation of annual Business Plans for       Did not commence.
IMM that include operating performance,
investment program and financial targets and
results;
c. Financing waste collection equipment.          Did not commence.
Component 2. Strengthening of Municipal Services and Infrastructure (Cost: $98.5M)
a. Preparing a detailed risk assessment for all   Did not commence.
major municipal systems;
b. Preparing a Municipal Infrastructure Risk      Did not commence.
Mitigation Plan;
c. Retrofitting of municipal infrastructure       Did not commence.
(under-passes, viaducts, etc.);
d. Providing emergency fire department            Procurement preparation completed but
equipment.                                        procurement process not started.
Component 3. Pilot Urban Transformation Program (Cost $40M; Loan:$40M)
Preparation of pilot urban transformation         Pilot urban transformation feasibility study not
feasibility studies and preparation of            commenced.
microzonation studies. These are necessary in     Microzonation study procurement started, but
the analysis of seismic risk and the              contract award cancelled due to project closure.
development of land use plans.
Component 4. Project Management and Audit (Cost: $14.15M)
a. Design studies, surveys and technical          Did not commence.
training for project implementation;
b. External audits of project accounts.           Did not commence.




                                               26
Contracts awarded under project prior to cancellation (all within Component A - Creek Rehabilitation) including physical progress
achieved on each contract and total disbursements made prior to project cancellation.
                                                                                        Progress                       Total length of
                                                                                                   Total length of     rehabilitation
                                           Date of    Contract Amount
                                                                      Total Payment (Total Payment the creek to be    works at the last    Physical
           Description of Works           Contract    ( VAT included)
                                                                          (TRY)       / Contract   rehabilitated in       payment       progress (2)/(1)
                                          Signing          (TRY)
                                                                                       Amount)       meters (1)         certificate in
                                                                                                                         meters (2)
      Çekmeköy Kemerderesi
  1                                       5/7/2010      7,339,010.06    5,040,784.98      69%            1,480             1,450              98%
      Rehabilitation Project 1st Stage
      Küçükçekmece Nakkaşderesi
  2                                       5/7/2010      9,187,118.68    7,166,209.83      78%            1,250              945               76%
      Rehabilitation Project 1st Stage
      Çekmeköy Kemerderesi
  3                                       6/14/2010     6,405,632.00    6,951,970.27      109%            900               900              100%
      Rehabilitation Project 2nd Stage
      Küçükçekmece Nakkaşderesi
  4                                       6/15/2010     8,099,146.00    4,817,892.42      59%             910               680               75%
      Rehabilitation Project 2nd Stage
      Beykoz (Akbaba, Dereseki) Creek
  5                                    6/29/2010        9,899,153.32    6,167,338.85      62%            2,545             2,180              86%
      Rehabilitation Project 2nd Stage
      Kadıköy Kurbağalıdere
  6                                       8/6/2010      5,107,438.60    1,855,110.07      36%             900               230               26%
      Rehabilitation Project
      Üsküdar Bekar Creek
  7                                       8/9/2010      5,899,544.51                       0%             822                0                0%
      Rehabilitation Project
      Beylikdüzü, Kavaklıderesi
  8                                       10/6/2010     6,017,082.20                       0%            2,100               0                0%
      Rehabilitation Project 1st Stage
  9   Beylikdüzü, Kavaklıderesi
                                          10/6/2010     8,258,702.12                       0%            3,700               0                0%
      Rehabilitation Project 2nd Stage
      Haramidere Rehabilitation Project
 10                                       2/25/2011    11,270,909.24     477,580.92        4%            1,546               0                0%
      1st Stage
      Haramidere Rehabilitation Project
 11                                       2/25/2011     9,690,234.34     410,603.12        4%            1,400               0                0%
      2 nd Stage
      Haramidere Rehabilitation
 12                                       2/25/2011    10,731,684.64     454,732.40        4%            1,300               0                0%
      Prıoject 3rd Stage
      Esenyurt Haramidere
 13                                       4/19/2011    11,438,568.24                       0%            1,500               0                0%
      Rehabilitation Project
      Küçükçekmece Hasanoğlu Creek
 14                                       4/18/2011     9,752,216.20                       0%            1,650               0                0%
      Rehabilitation Project
      Total                                            119,096,440.14   33,342,222.86                    12,231            6,385




                                                                                27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not Applicable




                                      28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                Responsibility/
          Names                        Title            Unit
                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Seema Manghee            Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.   TWIWA TTL
Sana Kh.H. Agha Al Nimer Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.   MNSWA Engineer
Zeynep Zerrin Koclar     Technical Specialist          ECSSD Engineer
Jolanta Kryspin-Watson   Operations Officer             ECSS6Technical
                                                             Solid Waste
Frank Van Woerden        Senior Environmental Engineer ECSS3
                                                             Specialist
Ibrahim Sirer            Senior Procurement Specialist ECSO2 Procurement
                         Sr Financial Management             Financial
Zeynep Lalik                                           ECSO3
                         Specialist                          Management

Supervision (June 2007 - October 2009)
Seema Manghee             Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.   TWIWA TTL
Sana Kh.H. Agha Al Nimer Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.    MNSWA Engineer
Zeynep Zerrin Koclar      Technical Specialist          ECSSD Engineer
Ibrahim Sirer             Senior Procurement Specialist ECSO2 Procurement
                          Sr Financial Management             Financial
Zeynep Lalik                                            ECSO3
                          Specialist                          Management

Supervision/ICR (October 2009 – July 2011)
Mara Warwick          Country Sector Coordinator       ECSSD TTL
Elif Ayhan            Urban Specialist                 ECSS6 Engineer
                      Lead Social Development
Daniel R. Gibson                                       ECSOQ Social Safeguards
                      Specialist
                      Lead Social Development
Frederick E. Brusberg                                  ECSS4 Social Safeguards
                      Specialist
Chukwudi H. Okafor Sr Social Development Specialist    ECSS4 Social Safeguards
                      Sr Financial Management                Financial
Ayse Seda Aroymak                                      ECSO3
                      Specialist                             Management
Ibrahim Sirer         Sr Procurement Specialist        ECSO2 Procurement
Salih Erdurmus        Procurement Specialist           ECSO2 Procurement
                                                             Environmental
Esra Arikan           Environmental Specialist         ECSS3
                                                             Safeguards
Xiaoke Zhai           Transport Specialist             EASCS Engineer




                                         29
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                             USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                   No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                             39.53
  FY07                                                            272.66
  FY08                                                             10.84

                          Total:                                  323.03
Supervision/ICR
 FY08                                                             114.10
 FY09                                                             146.30
 FY10                                                             156.60
 FY11                                                             189.44
 FY12                                                              54.24

                          Total:                                  660.68




                                       30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                      31
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR



                                                       RePUBLIC Of rURKEY
                                                          PRii'viE viiNISTRY
                                                  1'111: Cndcrsccretariur c;fTrc-aslU"y


         Ref: 1195-!024.204.11 .06                                                                                                  Ankara,



         i\ lr. Flori:m Fichtl
         L~ad Opcr:1tions Ot"tic.::r                                                                           12.09. 2013 • 1 4 6 7 0
         Europe and Ct:ntralt\sia Region
         The World Bani..
         Ankara Ofticc


         Rei": Your lcll..:r dated June 14. 20 I J regarding btanhul ~vlunit:ipal lnli":!struc!un: Project
         Impleme-ntation Completion and Results RcpJrt-Rrquests fo r Conllllt:nts

         Dear Mr. Fichtl.

        R.:gan.ling l:;tunbul Municipul lnlbstructure Project Implementation C<lmplction and Results
        Report, please lind altach.:d the comments of Undersecrata riat of Treasury, Ministry of
        Development and Istanbul ,vktropo!itan Municipality.

         Yours si ncen.:ly.




                                                                                                 J ,.• w
                                                                                                        ~~Y/1 l .
                                                                                                       ' ...l'.      ..
                                                                                                                1 , .. ; · ,. '
                                                                                                                              '
                                                                                    ,\Llin;.: Dcpu:_, I li r~cto;· Ci-.:nt.:r:ll Ji.n
                                                                                         F.·t..:ign EconomiL Rc!:llton~




                                                                                --
                                                                                 0¥0
                                                                                 .......110•
                                                                                                 ...
                                                                                               ,..,
                                                                                                      S :AN. 'tfD f
                                                                                                        1 :\
                                                                                                       -AY
                                                                                                                 .5
                                                                                                                      .....
                                                                                                                      .E

                                                                                                                      '~'

                                                                                 ..-ll.EtQ.~,., •ILNC:tOR/11I'ESWCcn\:J,o,o.,.,.,_
                                                                                                                                  p '




        j,~~nll lluhnr, \\1. J(, l; llll:"- 1)(,5 1(1,\~,KAR:\·------- · ----·-~·:N d,:!:ukd intiliiO<Hion; ~ . A Yl)r\.~ i:\j)Ci1
         lei: 104 'i.L!£,1.1~': ~(I~ 7Jft7                                                    ~.:-pn-i;a : il!.!.£.1!1S:IIhMirw !.!l)V~




                                                                       32
                        COMMENTS OF THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY

                 ON THE ICR OF ISTAN BUL MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT

Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICRR) of Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure
Project has some evaluations on government performance. Our comments on these
evaluat ions are as follows;

    1) Regula r Proj ect Financing

There are regular steps that need to be followed for loans provided for project financing
guaranteed by the Turkish Treasu ry.

    a- Concept Note needs to be finalized by incorporating the comments of relevant
          institutions
    b- According          to   Law on      Regulating      Public     Finance     and   Debt    Management,
          Undersecratariat of Treasury asks Ministry of Development whether the project is in
          the annual investment program and has priority, in order to get their view on the
          tot al project amoun t and appropriations at the stage of obtaining foreign financing
          for such projects. The Project cannot be externally financed if it is not in the
          investm ent program and loan amount cannot exceed the external financing amount
          envisaged in the investment program
    c- Following affirmation of Ministry of Development , technical discussions or
          negotiations can take place between the implementing agen cy together wit h the
          Undersecratariat of Treasury and th e Bank
    d- After signing the agreed minutes as a result of the negot iilt ions World Bank Board
          'lpproves the Project
    r!-   Luiln :111d   ~udrJntee   ,1greemen ts take their fin.ll    ver~ions   to be sigrwd
    f-    Effectiwness orocess starts to       le~alize   the ln'ln

For this project, our regular project financing procedures could not be followed because of
the ambitious timeline and as a result of this; problems have been occurred for the w hole
project cycle.

    2)    Inefficient project preparation

Timeline was set for the project at the beginning. The preparations of the project were not
mature enough to start negot iations. Therefore, technical discussions have been held in
order to discuss the project with all re levant parties (namely, Ministry of Development,
Treasury and ist anbu l Metropolitan Municipality). However, technical discussions were
upgraded to negotiations although the problems were not completely solved and the
Project was not completely included in the Investment Program. Presenting the Project for
the Board approval before solving th e problems ca used long delays and implementation
problems.




                                                   33
The reasons for the delay in process are twofold:

         - Although the project was not in the 2007 Investment Program, and this fact is
known by the Bank it was submitted to the Board for approval.

         -Project was included in 2008 Investment Program. However, the components of this
project as in the Project Paper were not aligned with the 2008 Investment Program.
Therefore, project was amended by the Bank in 2009.

         - Guarantee agreement was signed with the Bank 19 months after the Board
approval since sovereign guarantee statutory limits were 2 billion dollars in 2008 and the
limit was already reached when the istanbul Metropolitan Municipality Project Loan and
Guarantee Agreement were ready to sign. The refore, the Guarantee Agreement could not
be signed before 2009. The Bank knew that situation but preferred signing the agreement.

Lessons from the Project:

One the most outstanding lessons to be taken from this project was the importance of the
preparation and the design stage of the project. It is essential to note that rushing at the
preparedness stage weakens t he project and affects the development objectives. Technical
discussions or negotiations should not be started unless the project is included or is about to
be included in the Annual Investment Program as envisaged in the Concept Note and Project
Paper.




                                          34
                                                       T.C.
                              iSTANBUL B0Y0K$EHiR BELEDiYE BA$KANLIGJ




          '
                                                                                                                   ·"."""r.u:.·<.\'lOf!ooe#A
                              Mali Hi:t:metler Daire Ba~kanhg1 Finansman Mildilrlilgil                           OUNYII KGLT~HX~02~1l
                                                                                                                   t ·~· "1 ; .. ~~~~- ..... ...::n

 Say1 : 76308294-853.99        h" \' -· ! :;·~ ...; : ....                                                             . .. .108/20 13
 Konu: istanbul Beledi yesi Altyap1 Projesi

                                                                 T.C.
                                                         BA~BAKANLIK
                                       HAZiNE MUSTE$ARLIGI
                              (Dl$ EKONOMiK iLi$KiLER MUDURL0GU'NE)
                                                                                          ANKARA

             11gi : 24.06.20 13 tarih ve I 0196 sayll1 yazrmz.


        Bilindigi Uzerc, istanbul Bilyilk~ehir Belediyesi, Milste~arhgmJZ garantorltigunde
Otinya Bankas1 kaynaklan ile finanse edilen belediyemizin altyap1 yat:mmlan finansmanmda
kullanllmak ilzere faiz ve diger masraflar hari~ 322.150.000 ABO Dolan ilzerinden kredi
sozle~mes i imzalanrm~ ve bahse konu krediden 22.505.375 USD kullarum yapilmi~ttr.


       Bunun ilzerine, Belediyemiz 15.05.2013 tarih ve 90479 sayllt yaz1 ile bahse konu
kredi kapsammda kullantlmayan yaki~Lk 299,6 milyon ABD Dolarmm iptal edildigini ve soz
konusu projenin 3 I Arahk 2011 tarihi itibari ile kapandJgLm belirterek, Miiste~arhgm1za
bildirmi~tir.


        tlgi yazmtz ilt:, Bartka tarafmdan Projeye ili~kin haz1rlanan "Uygulama Tamamlama
ve Sonu~ Raporu (Implementation Completion and Results Report ·- ICR)" ile kurumumuzun
diizeltme ve gtiril!?le ri talep edilmektedir. Bu dogrultuda, Kurumumuz, Rapor ile il gil i
degerlendirme ve goril~ lerimizi tamamlam1~ olup; ektc Miistc~arh gmiza ekte tarafm1za
gundcrilmcktedir.

              ' " s ilcrini;i ·•rz ::!.:rim.
                                                                                                                          'I
                                                                                                            'i     .
                                                                                                      I''




Ekler:
1-Rapora lli~kin Goril~lerimiz (lngilizceffOrk~e)
       slahlan Odeme listesi (lngilizcerrOrk~e)
2-Dere 1




t 1a"bul RO)Ok.jthir B<led•y.:so Mall Ho<meUer Oaore B~kanhA• FinammOll MOdariUAU Me.hmtr Nezohi 6m~tn Mahalle.
                                                                                                              " KaSlm Sok fl
ill"~   Kar 1 34010 Mencr-<OOng.oreniiS1 ANBUL "II f. 0·2 12-449 40 70-711 / Faks. 0-l l2-449 40 74




                                                                                                                                                      ·.~




                                                                   35
      COMMENTS ON THE COMPLETION OF THE iMPLEMENTATION AND THE RESULT
                          REPORT OF WORLD BANK INFRASTRUCT URE PROJECT

 As is known, Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality signed a loan a!:,'Tt:ement with the World Bank on
 25.07.2008 with an amount of 322. 150.000 USD under the guarantee of the Undersecretariat of
Treasury. After a Guarantee Protocol was s igned with the Undersccretariat of Treasury o n
 13.01.2009, the loan went into effect and the Undersecretariat of Treasury gave 100% guarantee for
 this loan agreement. T he aforementioned loan agreement was amended on 23.09.2009 and the
 validation of the loan was extended until 2013.


The loan agreement was signed for funding the following:
 I. Stream rehabilitation
2. Bridge and Viaduct Reinforcement
3. Rehabilitation of Fire Brigade Services
4. Mapping and Microzoning of European Side Southwest Region
5. Rehabilitation of the former landfill
6. Service procurement for sea pollution and environmental cleaning


Regarding the Stream Rehabilitation Constituent of the loan with the amount of 322. 150.000 USD,
tenders were made for 14 streams a nd 22.505.375 USD was spent fo r the construction of 9 s1ream
re habilitation which are quoted below:


1- Construction of the Ist Section of <;:ckmekoy Kemerderesi Stream Rchahil itation
l.- t.:onstruction of the 2nd Section of <;:ekmcki:iy Kemerde rcsi Stream Rehabilitatio n
 >·   l.-ullMru<.uon u1 tile o, , .;c~.ollull .,, ,,u.,:uJ...,:..:koucc.:   o'lai-.!<a~ticn:~i   ·:1r::am ;{,_habilita tion
4- Construction of the 2nd Section of Kiioyiiko;:ekmece                      Nakka~deres i       Stream Rehabilitation
5- Construction of the 2nd Section of Beykoz (Akbaba, Dereseki) Stream Rehabilitation
6- Construction ofKad1kiiy Kurbagahdere Stream Rehabilitation
7- Construction of the Ist Section of Haram idere Stream Rehabilitation
8- Construction of the 2 nd Section of Haramidere Stream Rehabilitation
9- Construction of the 3rd Section ofHaramidere Stream Rehabilitation


The unused a mount of the loan which is 299.644.625 lJSD (322. 150.000 USD - 22.505.375 lJSD =
299.644.625 USO) was terminated on 11.07.201 1 with the approval of the World Bank and the assent
of the Undersecretariat ofTreasury.




Our Comment~ Rega rding the Negative Points io the Report
As in all loans        receiv~d    fo r the projects of o ur municipality, the munic ipality                    b~:gan   working eageoly
and with excitement for this loan so that constiwents of it can be rea lized immediately. Including, the




                                                                     36
positive approach of the employees of World Bank Ankara Office, necessary work conducted by
responsible units of our municipality on the coustituents of the loan, all employees put efforts to bring
this project to tender phase as soon as possible.


Due to the fact that the guarantee of the Undersccretariat of Treasury was granted 19 months later than
Board's approval, there has bee n a major de lay in the project. However, this delay is not directly a
result of our municipal work. Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality (IMM) cannot affect the decision
process of an independent authority.


IMM cannot be claimed to be unfamiliar with international financing. After the Unde rsecretariat of
Treasury, IMM has the most efficient management system of taking and using external debt. Until this
agreement was signed, our munic ipality took loans for countless projects. Moreover after this project,
externals loans were taken and used for 5 more projects. The amount of this loan is not even the I 0%
of total external financ ing oflMM.


Relevant work for micro-zoning and mapping of Southwest Region in European side started at the
beginning of 2009. Due to the fact that appropriate purchase document did not exist in the Bank, the
preparation of a new purchase document based on examples sent to Directorate of Earthquake and
Ground Analysis and its translation was a significant progress. As the bank provided wrong documents,
documents had to be changed twice. Moreover, a lthough a ll requests of the Bank were met by o ur
directorate on short notice, the approval of final purchase document and re turn of it took a long time.
The Bank continued sending feedback for different and new requests every time. In addition to this,
the fact that fo r the negotiation of requested technical changes, the Bank Jid not have any compt:tcnl
 ·-.,~·"<"nncl   md t;lr that onntler   :1 o:on~uhant   was   ~ou ~ht   a lter fnr the techn ical   i~~ucs. \~ hich   c::mscd
important delays.


Concerning another constituent, Rehabilitation of Fire Brigade Services, working on tender documents
with the World Bank took some time and the Project has been brought to tender stage. However, as the
credit was cancelled, the project could not be finalized.


One of the goals set by our Municipa lity is to prevent spates caused by heavy ra in at specific periods
in the year and casualties resulting from these incidents. Jn this respect, it is necessary to note that
stream rehabilitation must be taken into consideration. This constituent is the most difficult to
coordinate among other constitue nts. It does not only include construction work. In addition, it
includes social evaluation reporting topics. socia lization processes and cadastral sheets. This
constituent requires many departments -within our Municipality to work closely together in
coordinatiou and simultaneously.




                                                              37
Our Municipality paid strict attention in order not to aggrieve citizens during expropriation and
repositioning activities as a pan o f tht: implication of stream rehabilitation constituent. As some of
stream beds are expropriated and some arc occupied, stream beds are carefully selected, nevertheless
some problems occurred.


The expropriation of Beyroz (Akbaba, Dereseki) stream connections project that is projected to be
funded via World Bank loan was initiated in 20 I 0. 70.534,86 m2 of land was included io the
expropriation program. So far, a total sum of7.644.685.-TL. was paid in return for expropriation of
16.287,50 m2 of land. The expropriation of28.646, 18m' treasury revenue, 4.992,00 m 2 forest land,
13.690,34 m2 land was cancelled. The legal process for the remaining 6.918,84 m' is still continuing.
Failure to complete applications on time resulted from the extension oflegal process.


 Land in tbe Project
 (m')                             70.534,86
Treasury Revenue                  28.646,18
                    2
 Forest Laud (m         )         4.992,00
Cancelled Land (m')               13.690.,34


Completed Laud (m')               16.287,50
 Paid Sum (fL.)                   7.644.685
Remaining Sum (m')                6.918,84


b propriution o f Silivri Bogluca :-itrt:arn, Jllother expropriation                             projc~.:t,   was initiated in 20 10. I he
;;roJCCL CIIClH IIpa"c> .111   J Ij   / ..i .. oil"   i.111J   Ull.i .).)   :noduingS wuh 2J 7 inclcp c llllCIIL .•~CliiJIIS   Ill   l<lWI ·;, ith in
the expropriation project. So far, a total of 24.3 15.597.-TL has bee n paid to expropriate 8.058,68 m2 of
land and 272 independent sections in total. Lega.l process on the expropriation oftht: remaining 103,66
m2 and 15 independent sections on top of it is in progress.


Area in project (m 2 )            8157,34

Number of buildings               55                                    (287 independent sections)

Completed area (mz)               8053,68                               (272 independent sections)

Price paid (TL.)                  24.315.597



I
Remaining area (m1 )            1103,66




Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality Dire<:toratc of Domiciies carT)· out wcrk to designate and assess in
~:trcam   Rehabilitation projects        to evacuate slums                  on stream bt:ds.




                                                                             38
In other words. for instance, within the context of the rehabilitation of Uzundere (located in the
Sultanbeyli District) and its branch Naldoken Stream, 29 buildings were evacuated and 2.220.961 TL
was paid as price of debris and 23 houses were allocated in return . Prices of debris were appropriated to
the prices of houses and installment plans up to 20 years were designed for the remaining debts. Prices
of debris were paid to those who did not receive any housing in return. That way, no rightful party was
put in disadvantage and they were granted healthy housing and livable environments in all the stream
rehabilitation projects.


During meetings between the World Bank and Directorates of lnfrastructural Services, Expropriation
arrd Domiciles, these issues were tabled in detail. Within the context of the World Bank credit, Istanbul
Metropolitan Municipality commissioned an independent firm to come up with reports that were
submitted to the World Bank on the expropriation, social and economic activities for the Beykoz and
Silivri (Bogluca) Streams which require expropriation or resettlement.


Within the scope of Stream Rehabilitation constituent, while Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality has
used 32.342.222,86 TL of the loan granted by the World Bank for 14 streams, Istanbul Metropolitan
Municipality used 78.164.307 TL from equity capital to complete the rehabilitation process of the
remainmg steams and realized 94% of the tender price although the loan agreement haJ been
cancelled. For the remaining part, studies are continuing. Apart from that, as a consequence of the
protocol with our subsidiary       iSKI in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 20 I0, an amount of3 I 6.896. 723 TL was
paid to   iSKI   for the rehabilitated streams and the construction of rain channe ls. Stream rehabilitation
has not e ntered the agenda of Istanbul        :~fter   the loans granted by the World Bank; there had already
' ::.:11 l i::::m ;::h:rhilitation act iv ir ic~ hd r,re the nroiect ·md 1 h<:se rchahilitntio ns •v il1 1·1kc place ·dh:r the
project a~ well. Apparelllly, the claim in the report that '·Istanbul Metropolitan Municipal ity is not
interested in the minimization of the destructive risks and casualties of tlood disasters" fail s to reflect
the truth. Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality could never adopt such a point of view.
Despite all the activities and endeavors, the settlement of the increasing disputes has not been feasible
as the procedure, regulations and rules between o ur municipality and the World Bank differ especially
on Stream rehabilitation constituent. The aforementioned lending agreement has therefore been
cancelled with the joint resolution of the World Bank, Undersecretariat ofTreasury and Istanbul
Metropolitan Municipality, resulting in the abolishment of the loan agreement.


Kindly submitted to your infom1ation.




                                                             39
                                                                                                                                      Progress                To tal
                                                                                                                                       (Total
                                                                                                                                         Total Stream     rehabilitation
                                                   Signing Da~,                              Total Payment    Total Payment           Paymet/
                                                                                                                                          Length to be    length at the      PhySical
                                                      of tho            '"'hreeme nt Total (TLJ ( World Bank       [TL)        Agreement rehabilitated(   las t payment      Progrrss
                     Job Description               Agreeme •.         (I AT mcluded) (TL)         Loan)      ( Equity Capital) Total)%      m)(l )        zone (m) (2)     ((2) 1 (1).%
          ~ekmckoy     Kemerdercst       Stream
     1    Reha bilita tion Project Phase 1
                                                   07.05.20l u           7,339,010.06        5,0<1 0,784.98   ~ ..l~ll.771 ,6'.'        69       1,48          1,45            98
          Kil~iik~ekmece            Nakka~deresi
     2    Stre"m Rch3billtation Project Phase
                                                   07.05.20l u           9.1a7 11868         7 166,209.83                               78       1.25          945             76
          ~ekmekiiy     Kemerderesl Stream
     3    Rehahilltotlon Project Phase 2
                                                   14.06 201 1.          o.4i15,632 uo       6,951.970.27     1. ~z:~.:-:u<;   zn       109      900           900             iOO
          Kii~k~ekmece              Nakka~deresi
     4    Stream Rehahilitation Project Phase
                                                   15.06.20111           G,U'J9.146 00       4,817,892.42     "?.1   Ht:"• • ·t,3'~      59      910           680             75
          2
          Beykoz (Akbaba, Deresekl) Stream
     5    Rehabilitation Project Phase 2
                                                   29.06 20 1..          ~.~~9.153.32        6,167,338.85     ..,.070.0 i 9.Z5           62      2,54 5        2,18            06
          Kad1koy     Kurbagahdere       Stream
                                                                  -
     6    Rehabilitation Project
                                                   06.08.2CJ ..          5,107,438.60        1,055,110.07             297,[; "!
                                                                                                               ; 1!),1_                  36       900          Z30              26
40




          Osktldot·        llekar        Stream
     7    Rchab11ita t1on Project
                                                   09.01\.20; ..          5.d99 544.51                         ~.u5:,_1:·J"''·   tt      0       822            0               0
          Oeyllkdfiztl, Kavakhderul Stream
     n    RehabilitatiOn ProJect Phase 1
                                                    06.10.201u            u,ul7,032 20                        o.~33S6~.'?~               0        2,1           0               0
          Bcyllkduzu, Kavakhderesi Stream
     9    Rehabilitation Project Phase 2
                                                    06.10.201 u           8,250,702.12                        ~.4%.~57,10                0        3,7           0               0
          llaramidere Stream Rehabilitation
     iO   Project Pha<e 1
                                                    25.02.201.           11.270,909.24        477,580.92      9.680.! >ll,7<,            4       1,546          0               0
          Haramidcre Stream Rehabilitation
     II   Project Phase 2
                                                    25.02.201.            9.c~J 234.H         410,603.12      d.JH.799,79                4        1,4           0               0
          Haramidcre Rehabilitation Project
     12   Phase 3
                                                    25.02.201 .          'l). ~31..604.b4     45·.,732.40     \2.l';,l.c: ;2 li}         4        1,3           0               0
          Esenyurt      Haramidere       Stream                                                                                                                                           '
     13   Rehabilitation Project
                                                    19.0•;.201.          1 1.43&   St>B.24                    ·~.835.527,20              0        1,5           0               0
          Kurukrekmecc Hasanoglu Stream
     14   Rehabilltotion ProJect
                                                    1£1.04.:1~1 .         9.75~.2 i6 20                       9.056.3?3,7il              0        1,65          0               0
                                           Total                      t-·119,096,440.14      33 342.222,86    70.164.:107,R5                     12,231       6,305
                            Equity Capital Totai
                                                               -·· " - - - ·
                                                                                                       -· -- -·-·---- ~ ·-     ., .._ --~   ---- -    •   · - -   • ·-   .   fl •   \   A




                                                                           T.C.
                                                    K<\LKINMA BA.KAJ'ILIGI
                            Sosyal Sektorlct· ve Koordinasyon Gene! MUdUriUgti




  Say1           88799753-952.04.04.01 -4067
  Konu           Istanbul Belediyesi Altyap1l"tojesi                                                                                   16/08/2013


                                                   HAZ~ MOS~ARLICINA



 ilgi: Hazinc Mils~hgmm 24.06.2013 tarib ve 11954024.204.11.06/10196 say1h yaz1s1.
         llgi'de kay1tlt yaz1ile, DUnya Bankas1 tarafmdan finanse edilen ve istanbul BUytl~ehir
 Belediyesi tarafmdan ytlrllttilen Istanbul Belediyesi Altyap1Projesinin 31 Arollk 20 11 tarihi itibanyla
 kapand1g1 bildirilerek Dllnya Bankas1 taraf1odan projeye ili~kin hazJrlanan "Uygulama Tamamlama
 ve Sonus: Raporu" gonderilmekte ve taslak ltapora ili~kin gtl~le rimiz talep edilmektedir.
           Bilindigi Uzere, Bakanhgmnz beledlyelerin talebi Uzerine d1~ kredi ile yap1lmas1 planlanan
 projeleri degerlendirmekte ve uygun goriilenltri Yatmm Program1 ile ili~kilendirmektedir. D~ kredi
 ilt: finanse edilecek projelerin iyi ettid edilmesi, proje ihtiyac1 ile proje yonetim sUre9lerinin iyi
 tasarlwu11as1 Bakanhg1m1Zm projeleri degerlil!dirirken ancelik verdigi hususlard1r. Bununla birlikte,
 Bakanlt 1m1z taraftndan_?nwanan proj.,lerde uygulama safhastnda meydana selebilecek
 deg1~1 1 ertn           . 1 1m1Z 1e ~aitere~@.!tmas1 onem arz etmektedtr. !Ju kaP.sa~ ...
                      §.f]...cY~w
::h!illili.l!!l!eFeaiYC                  .uu§.~'Tt\tJme5.L~Tciiicrey~aruii§}oi5!!!1F~J!r~~£ir9JCi~fl~::.. ,_
 ~e~5.~ e.~~~esH~l!l... ~~z kon~s,!!_cj!!gerfelid~ll)e ran9@g~c.r ~~"iiiigll~fell)Ier l~tgmda s;1kiiqla~ak ~· .
'aersler,,Ol1emh gontlmek:te ve !iul)d~o sonra )<redi altnmast ongoriilen projebde de yukanC!a ··
.belirtileJ\
  ..,.,
             hususlara
              ......~
                          dikkat edilm~:si
                      _ ..... -   •        -
                                            g~relnigi de~erlendirifmel<re<lir: ·
                                                              ... -  ... ·~~:··~1•·'o
                                                                                      · -· -. · ·•· ~ - · ·
          DilgileriniLe v~ gcrc~ini rica edcrim.




                                                                                                               o•~·li K:-,... ..
                                                                                                            H•tln > ,,,.,, .
                                                                                                                                   I              \
                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                           16.08. 13 26031 -
                                                                                                     i_.



---·------         Cad.~:.,: 11 0/A· O~ IOQ
 1\drcs: Ncc:>tlb.:y                      YUccttpc..f'.NKA!'.A
 T~kton:+90(3 l'ZJ 294   5000 - 194 50~5. 294 50 91
 Fa~,: ,9(1 t31 1) 194 69 77
 f.ld<tronik .~c: hup:l/wv.w.kulkinmn.gol tr                                                                                       1arli@dp• ,;o~.tr
                ~!l:'V s..y1b   El,..,_uomk   ~m~" K !!nll:'ll 'ur~ 11) 0\IH •liar ,\o.. \juvcnl l
                                                                                        tleklf .:mi"' lm1a :1c {Jr(tilmt$tir.
               E.PIIo.. t.:yidl bu ~u:/ldpttb. dtl'.fO V.tr.'~orKu ad:csmdcll Tl l''} L·UI.IJP·30'l(J kodu tic yapll• lliltr




                                                                              41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure Project (IMIP), Project Appraisal Document (PAD)

2. IMIP World Bank Implementation Supervision Reports

3. IMIP World Bank Aide Memoires and Back to Office Reports

4. Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality Project Progress Reports

5. Correspondence between the Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Undersecretariat of
   the Treasury and the World Bank

6. Consultant studies and reports relating to the creek rehabilitation activities




                                             42
                     26°E                    30°E                                               34°E                  38°E                   RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                  BULGARIA                                                        B la c k S ea                                                                                                 TURKEY                                       41°15’N
                                                                                                                                              GEORGIA                           ISTANBUL MUNICIPAL                                                                                         Bl a c k S e a
                                      Istanbul
                                                                                                                                                                              INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                   ECE




                                                                                                                                                            AZER-
                GRE




                                                                                                                                                    ARMENIA BAIJAN                                                                                                               Rumelifeneri
                 40°N
                                                                                          ANKARA                                                                                            CREEKS REHABILITATED                                                                                                                            Riva Köy
                                                                                                                                                            AZER.
                                                                                                                                                                                            UNDER THE PROJECT                                                                                                                               R
                                                                                                      TURKEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             iv
                                                                                                                                                            ISLAMIC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a Der
                                                                                                                                                             REP. OF                        TOWNS/URBAN AREAS
                                                                                                                                                              IRAN
                                                                                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           s)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     esi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ru
                                                                                                                                                     IRAQ                                   SECONDARY ROADS
                 36°N
                                                                                                                              SYRIAN ARAB                                                                                                                                 oKeçilik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      p




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    h
                                      30°E                                                     34°E                             REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   os
                                                                                                                                            42°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Beykoz (Akbaba, Dereseki) Creek




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (B
                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29°00’E              Yenimahalle                                            Rehabilitation Project 2nd Stage
                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                    GSDPM              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Se y
                    Map Design Unit    endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                  Kemerburgaz                       t                                  Sariyer                                                                                     şa




                                                                                                                                                                    Ka




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Köy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ö
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kö




                                                                                                                                                                       nli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Dereseki




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dere s i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D ere
                                                                                                                                                                        De
                                                                                                                                                                              e                                                                                       Yali Mahallesi




                                                                                                                                                                             r




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Beykoz




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ld
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Yeniköy




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ka
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 it
                                                                                                                                                                        A
                                             Ayayorgi                                                                             Yenihan                                                                                                                                 Paşabahce                                                        Polonezköy
                                                                                                                                                                         l ib
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ku
                                                                                                                                                                             ey




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ml u k
                Sa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Çubuklu
                  zli




                                                                                                                                                                                D e res
                         De




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          De
                            re




                                                                                                                                                                                  i




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                re
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rumellhisari
                                                       H a s a n o ğl u D e r e s i




                                                                                                                                                      Çamurluhan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                si
                                                                                      Deresi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Anadoluhisari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bebek
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kandilli
                                                                             Hamam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Çekmeköy Kemerderesi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Arnavutköy                                                                        Rehabilitation Project 1st Stage
                                                                                                  Küçüçekmece Nakkaşderesi                              Atişalan                                                                                                                                     Rehabilitation Project 2nd Stage
                                                                                                                                                                                  Eyup                                                        l
                                                                                                    Rehabilitation Project 1st Stage
                                                                                                   Rehabilitation Project 2nd Stage                         Esenler                                                                       b u
                 Alibeyköy                                                                                                                                                                                                              n      Beylerbeyi                                        T aş li D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ere
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Is
                                                                                                       Büyük Halkali                                    Güngören
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dudullu
                                                                                                             Ha lkal i D




                                                                                                                                                                                                   Is
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I  tanb
                                                                                                                                                                                                     st    ul
                                                                                                                                                                                                        anbul                                            Kisikli

                            Küçükçekmece                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41°00’N
                    41°00’N     Gölü
                                                                                                                    es   er
                                                                                                                         i




                                             Topsakizlar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kadiköy                                    Küçükbakkal                    Kadiköy Kurbağahdere
                                                                                                                                        Bakirköy                                                                                                                                                     Rehabilitation Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Erenköyu
                                                                                                                                                                              S ea o f Ma rm a ra
DECEMBER 2013




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 40569
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0                 3                  6 Kilometers
                                             28°45’E                                                       Yeşilköy                                                                                                 29°00’E                                                                                                                                  29°15’E
