                                    Documentof
                                  The WorldBank


                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                  ReportNo. 36265-ET




                                 PROJECT PAPER

                                        ONA

             PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING(CREDIT)

                               INTHE AMOUNT OF

           SDR 59.80 MILLION(US$87.3 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

            FEDERALDEMOCRATICREPUBLICOF ETHIOPIA

                                      FORTHE

        ROADSECTORDEVELOPMENTPHASEI1PROJECT(APL2)
       INSUPPORT OFTHE SECONDPHASEOFTHE ROADSECTOR
                          DEVELOPMENTPROGRAM



                                   MAY 23,2006




TransportSector
Country Department6
Africa RegionalOffice


This document has a restricteddistribution and may beusedby recipientsonly in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwisebedisclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective M a y 18,2006)

               Currency Unit = EthiopianBirr (ETB)
                   ETB 1.OO = USSO.1143
                   US$l.OO = ETB 8.75

                         FISCAL YEAR
                           July 8 - July 7

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


A C      Asphalt Concrete
AfDB     African Development Bank
APL      Adaptable Program Lending
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DBST     Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
D C A    Development Credit Agreement
D C I    Domestic Construction Industry
DCOI     Development Cooperationo f Ireland- Former Ireland Aid
DFID, UK Department for International Development, UnitedKingdom
D O      Development Objective
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate o f Return
ERA      Ethiopian Roads Authority
FDRE     Federal Democratic Republic o f Ethiopia
GOE      Government o f Ethiopia
HDM      Highway Development & Management Model
ICAS     Interim Country Assistance Strategy
IBRD     InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
NPV      Net Present Value
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RSDP     Road Sector Development Program
RSDP I1  Road Sector Development Program Phase I1
SDR      Special DrawingRights
VOC(s)   Vehicle Operating Cost(s)



                Vice President:      GobindT. Nankani
              Country Director:      Ishac Diwan
               Sector Director:      Michel Wormser
                  Task Leader:       Negede Lewi

                                    ETHIOPIA

           ROADSECTOR DEVELOPMENTPHASE I1PROJECT(APL2)

                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                   CONTENTS


                                                                     Page

Project Paper Data Sheet                                             i

I. Introduction                                                      1

11.   Background and Rationale for Additional Financing              1

111.  Proposed Changes                                               3

IV.   Consistency with the InterimCAS                                5

V.    Economic Analysis of Cost Overrun or Financing Gap             6

VI.   Expected Outcomes                                               8

VII.  Benefits and Risks                                              8

VIII. Financial Terms And Conditions For The Additional Financing     8

IX.   Attachment 1                                                    9


                                       ETHIOPIA

                   Road Sector DevelopmentPhaseI1Project(APL2)
                                  AdditionalFinancing

                           PROJECT PAPERDATA SHEET




                                               EnvironmentalCategory: A




exceptions from Bank policies?                              oYes X No
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                 oYes  oNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the




                                              i

 The objectives o fthe Road Sector Development Phase2 Project-APL2 (the Project),
 withinits support to the overall RSDP 11, are to increasethe roadtransport infrastructure
 and improve its reliability, strengthen the capacity for road construction, management
 andmaintenance, and ensure sustainability and create conditions conducive to private
 sector participation inthe road transport sector. These objectives are achievable
 through: (a) construction, rehabilitation, upgrading and preservingthe priority federal
 and regional road network; (b) strengthened ERA reform program; (c) developing the
 capacity inprogram implementation; and (d) improving rural travel and transport




11     The Borrower's contributionwill be primarily for the full financing of the upgrading of the Shashemene- DodolaJunction Rd. (70
       km),to be executedunderNCBprocedures,andpaid inlocal currency. The Amount shown under `Foreign' is the estimateof the
       foreigncontent of this road upgradingcost




                                                                 ..
                                                                11

I.Introduction

This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an additional
credit in an amount o f SDR 59.8 million (US$ 87.3 million equivalent) to the ongoing
Ethiopia Road Sector Development Phase I1Project (APL2), Project ID P082998, Credit
3989-ET.

The proposed additional financing would help finance the costs associated with a
financing gap resulting from an increase of about 52% from the estimated indicative cost
for civil works contracts included for implementation underAPL 2.

The main financing partner for this credit remains the Government o f Ethiopia.
However, as this project overlaps with the APL1, all activities related to institutional
strengthening, civil works contracts, and special studies under APL1 are providing the
foundation for implementation under the APL2.          Specific activities financed by the
various partners are listed in Annex 2 of the original Project Appraisal Document (PAD
Report No. 29877-ET) dated August 23, 2004. Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) will
continue to manage donor coordination arrangements in consultation with the major
financing partners.

11.BackgroundandRationalefor the AdditionalFinancingof $87.30 million.

Giventhe continuing needto strengthen and rehabilitate the road network, and to expand
the currently insufficient and poor road system, the Government o f Ethiopia designed a
program support project for the consideration by IDA following an Adaptable Program
Lending (AF'L) instrument in four phases. Through implementing the proposed road
projects, within the framework o f the overall Road Sector Development Program
(RSDP), the country's road density and conditionwould substantially improve.

The Road Sector Development Phase 1 Project (APL1) for a grant amount o f SDR 93
million (US$126.8 million equivalent) became effective November 14, 2003, and the
projects included are ongoing. Following this, the original Credit o f the Road Sector
Development Phase I1 Project (APL2),          for SDR 110 million (US$160.9 million
equivalent), was approved on September 22, 2004. The Credit became effective on June
8, 2005.    From the commencement o f APL 1, subsequent stages overlap with the
previous one over an overall programimplementation period of 10 years (2003-20 13).

The objectives o f the Road Sector Development Phase I1Project (APL2), which are to
increase the road transport infrastructure and improve its reliability, strengthen the
capacity for road construction, management and maintenance, and create conditions
conducive to private sector participation inthe road transport sector, are still applicable.

InDecember 2005, the Borrower submitted its first bid evaluation reports to the Bank
under the APL 2, for the eight major works contracts. Following various Bank requests
to the Borrower for clarifications from bidders, it was confirmed that the base prices
offered by the bidders for the road works were higher by between 25-201% above the
engineeringestimates o f the cost o f civil works at appraisal. The highprices arose inpart

from the recent world market increases in fuel and bituminous product prices, which
affected these bids. Other possible factors may be the low level of contractor participation
and reduced competition.       In fact, some contracts came in with single bids and
exceptionally high prices are to be re-bid. Further analysis o f the road construction
market prices based on bids receivedinEthiopia inthe past year has shown that the bids
are, on average, about 52% above the original engineers' estimates. The market prices
then served as the basis for re-estimating the additional finance to fill the gap in funding.
This additional financing in the context of implementing APL2, will therefore fill the
shortfall ofresources inAPL2.

Progress to-date

The overall performance o f RSDP and the APL2, to date, has been satisfactory. There
have been no changes to the APL 2 original objectives and design, and the project has
remained incompliance with legal covenants.

From July 1997, the start o f the Road Sector Development Program, to the end of June
2005, roads constructed, upgraded/ rehabilitated and maintained totaled 14,536 km o f
which 6,848 km are federal roads and 7,687 km were newly constructed regional roads.
The total cost o f projects planned for execution during the same period amounted to Birr
15.1 billion (US$1.8 billion), while the total sum o f money disbursedinthe same period
amounted to Birr 15.0 billion (US$1.7 billion); representing 99% o f the planned target.
Of the total physical road works registered so far, 5,827 km (or about 40%) were
completed during the second phase o f RSDP over a period o f three years (July 2002 -
July 2005).

As a result of the investments under the overall RSDP (including IDA Credit 3032-ET),
the share of roads in good condition has improved from 22% in 1997 to 39% in 2005
with average annual increase o f 9% over the period. A substantial improvement occurred
in reopening the network that was dilapidated due to the lack of maintenance in the
1980s. The increase in the road network in good condition will continue with the roads
now kept in maintainable condition and the physical works maintaining its momentum.
Apart from road condition improvement, rural accessibility also improved because o f the
construction o f new link andrural roads.

The total road network o f the country has reached 37,018 km as o f June 2005. With a
total landarea of 1.1 million sq. km, the current road density is 33.6 kmper 1000 sq. km.
Overall road network in Ethiopia has been increasing on the average by 6.5% each year
between 1997 and 2005. The road network in the year 1997 was 26,550 km. Table 1
below summarizes impact of works undertakenbetween the year 1997/98 and 2004/05
measuredinterms of selected indicators.




                                             2

Table 1. Change in selected indicators  -
Indicators                                          1 1997        12002
Proportionof asphaltroads inGoodCondition           i 17%         i35%             54%




111.Proposed Changes

There are no changes inthe project's Development Objectives (DO) and design. The
overall scope o f the project to be financed with IDA funds (including the additional
financing) remains the same as defined inAF'L2, except for one sub-component
(upgrading o f the Shashemene-Dodola Junction Road), which the FDREhas opted to
finance fully from its counterpart funds. This therefore has reduced the list o f IDA-
financed road sections for which additional financing i s required.

Four o f the road sections proposed to be financed from the additional financing will be
re-bid because o f the exceptionally highbidprices and lack o f competition observed
duringan earlier roundo fbidding.For all these four road sections, the design options and
costs have beenreviewed andpre-qualification documents amended. All bids will be
issued at the same time, and cross discounts will be allowed ina clear manner to facilitate
cost minimization. There are no complementary changes applicable to the institutional
arrangements, financial management, and disbursement arrangements.

The re-bidding o f some o f the roads, overall, necessitates an update o fthe procurement
plan, and implementationschedule, and a two-year extension to the original closing date.
Inallother respects, the additional financing will allow the completionofthe civilworks
components as originally planned. The RevisedProject Costs and financing are given in
Tables 2 to 5.

         Table 2. Total RevisedProject APL 2 Cost by Component


                 Project Component




                                               3

          B Assosa/Sherkole-Guba
             -                                                    16.80 1  25.20  I  42.00


  I11- Rural Travel and Transport Program                         0.75       1.30.    2.05
  IV TA Support for ERA
     -                                                            0.32       1.28     1.60
  V - PreparatoryActivities for APL I11 and IV
  Projects                                                        0.14       0.55     0.69

   Physical contingencies                                         9.93  1   21.90 I  31.83
   Price Contingencies                                            15.20 I   12.17  I 27.37




                                                        Revised                                 % of
                                                       Indicative  YOo fTotal
                                                         costs
I
--
 Table 3. APL 2 ProjectTotal Cost by Componentincludingcontingency

                                            A P L 2
               Component                   Indicative
                                             costs
                                            (US$M      (US$M)
 Rehabilitation and Upgrading o f Federal     178.84       249.1         66.0
 Roads                                                                                             66.6I
 Construction o f Federal/Link and             56.30        107.7        28.5
 Regional Roads
 Construction Supervision                      15.85         15.8         4.2
 RuralTravel and Transport Program
 TA support services for ERA
 Preparatory Activities                         0.78
          Total Project Costs                 255.90       377.5         100.0         248.2      100.0
I      Total Financing Required               255.90  1    377.5 I       100.0         248.2      100.0




                                                       Indicative                   Bank -       % of
                       Component                         costs     % of Total     financing     Bank-
                                                        (US$ M)                    (US$ M)    financing
   Rehabilitationand Upgrading o f FederalRoads             70.3         57.8            52.3      59.9
   Construction o f Federal/Link and Regional Roads         51.4         42.2            35.0      40.1

                                 Total Project Costs       121.7         100.0           87.3     100.0
                          Total Financing Required         121.7         100.0           87.3     100.0

 Table 5. Allocationof the AdditionalFinanceCreditProceeds

                                                    Total APL 2    Additional
                Expenditure Category                 IDA Share     Financing     Financing
                                                    US$ Million    IDA Share     Percentage

   Civil Works for Components 1(i), (iv);
                                     (iii),               200.84 I       78.76  1100 YOforeign
   and 2.
   Civil Works for Component 1 (ii)                         0.00          0.00



                                                     4

  Consultants' services, training and workshops       12.92        0.00  100% foreign and
                                                                         30% local
  Goods                                                0.38        0.00  100% foreign
                                                                         and 30% local
 Unallocated                                          34.06         8.54
  Total Project Costs                                 248.2        87.30



Safeguardpoliciesthat mightapply

The ERA disclosed the EIAs and RAPSfor the roadworks proposedunder this additional
financing,  as part o f the preparation work o f the APL 1 and 2, inEthiopia inMarch2003
andApril 2004, andno change has occurred.

Procurement

Procurement for the proposedadditional loan would be carried out inaccordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" dated M a y
2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, andthe provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement for the
Road Sector Development Phase I1Project (APL2).

Works to be financed from the loan would include contracts for upgradingand
rehabilitation of 523 kmo f Federal trunk andlink roads from gravel to bituminouspaved
road surface standard, andthe construction of 119 kmFederal/Link and 137 kmRegional
Roads. The procurement will be done using the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments
(SBD). Pre-qualification o f international contractors would consider proven performance
of contractors inthe implementationo f similar works inAfrica and other developing
countries, other than their country o f origin. The poor recordedperformance o f
contractors, over the last five years, engaged in similar works inEthiopia, would be a
basis o f non-qualification.

Suitable provisions would be made inthe Conditions o f Particular Application o fthe civil
works contracts to cater for the requiredcontractual measures on non-performing
contractors at the stage o f contractors' mobilization.

The Borrower, duringthe preparationo fthe additional credit has developed a
Procurement Plan for project implementation, which provides the basis for the
procurement methods. The Borrower and the Project Team agreed on this Plan on May
18,2006, (Attachment 1) and it i s available at the ERA office o f the Deputy General
Manager for EngineeringandRegulatoryDepartment. The planwill also be available in
the Project's database andinthe Bank's external website.

IV. Consistencywith InterimCAS

The project is consistent with the proposedEthiopia InterimCountry Assistance Strategy
(ICAS), which the Board o f Directors o f the World Bank discussed on May 25,2006.



                                                5

The ICAS focuses on good governance and growth as the centralunderpinningso fthe
Bank's support to Ethiopia. The overarching objective o f the ICAS i s to support
Government indeveloping and implementing, inconsultationwith citizens, a
strengthened program o f institutionbuildingand governance reform that will help inits
efforts to accelerate pro-poor growth. To achieve this objective, the Bank i s deepening
support inways that strengthen good governance and growth including the development
o f infrastructureto nurture the growth o f small towns and growth corridors.

The ICAS places a highpriority on continuing the Bank's traditionally strong support for
the development o fthe roads sector. This support i s based on the sector's importance in
linkingpeople to marketsand services and fosteringthe development o ftowns andhigh-
potential rural areas. Inline with its focus on governance, the ICAS also notes the
importance o f addressing the distribution o f infrastructure assets and the manner inwhich
infrastructure is procured. Inthis regard, the Bank has analyzed the location o f
investments financed through the additional financing, and has concluded that the
investments are consistent with the Government's plans for a national road network and
that they have been selected solely based on their projected economic return. The
procurement and financial management systems already inplace under the Road Sector
Development Phase 2 Project -APL2 are considered to be operating at an appropriately
highlevel.

V.       Economic Analysis of Cost Overrun or FinancingGap

The economic viability o f the roadprojects under the APL2 was reanalyzedusing the
increased costs o fworks. Economic Analysis usedthe HDM3 model inorder to be
consistent with the original analysis. The proposedoptions were compared with a "do
minimum" case. The "do minimumcase" assumes that aminimumamount o f
maintenance o f the existingroadwill be carried out. For all roads, the economic analysis
is based on benefits to road traffic (interms o f savings invehicle operating costs (VOC)
& roadmaintenance costs) compared withthe costs o frehabilitatiodupgrading and
maintenance. Discounted benefits are then compared to discounted costs to produce
measures o f worth.

Inthe caseofone road, the Magna-Mechararoad, the analysis assumed that benefits
would not accrue before the road i s completed. The economic analysis i s based on
benefits interms o f increase inagricultural outputs (hence generated traffic) compared
with the costs o fconstruction andmaintenance.

The results are inEconomic Internal Rates o f Return(EIRRs) and Net Present Value
(NPV). The basic concept o f economic evaluationis to maximize the returns on
investment.Costs are interms o f financial and economic costs. The financial costs are
market prices that the consumers pay for. However, economic costs explain the true cost
o f resource consumption. Financial costs are converted to economic costs by subtracting
taxes, levies and duties, the latter, infact, from the national economic point o fview,
represent a transfer payment to the government




                                                6

To be acceptable for implementation, the proposed investments have to result inan EIRR
that i s at least equal to the opportunity cost o f capital inEthiopia, which is set at 10
percent. NpV's are calculated usingopportunity cost o f capital as the discount rate. The
economic analysis i s done for various alternatives as elaborated below.

ConstructionAlternatives
The construction and maintenance alternatives for the HighwayDevelopment and
Management Model (HDM) analysis were defined based on the improvement options
identified for eachroad. For each alternative defined, a set o fmaintenance and
improvement standards was assigned. The maintenance and improvement standards
define the work items proposed on the project road over the analysis period. The
different alternatives proposed for each road section are given below (Table 6).




AdiAbudAdwa - Shire

DBST= DoubleBituminousSurfaceTreatment; AC = Asphalt Concretesurface

The analysis assumes construction to start in2006/7 and last for three years, as opposed
to the original 42 months period, with the roads opening to traffic in2009/10. The
analysis period is 20 years, i.e., up to the year 2025. The investment spread i s expected to
be as follows: 2006: 20%, 2007: 40% and2008: 40%.

OptimumIntervention
Dueto the scarcity o fresources, an attempt hasbeenmadeto determinethe "optimum
intervention" for roads under consideration, especially for Assela - Goba, Gob Gob -
Woldiya and Adwa - Shire roads. The question is, could we recommend these roads for
lower level treatment. Inreality, a true optimum i s difficult to achieve without an
intensive investigation, due to the level o f interactiono f the numerous deterioration
parameters andworks standards effects. The most practical works standards were
investigatedusingthe strategic analysis applicationwithinHDMby specifying a series o f
maintenance or improvement alternatives as defined inTable 6 to determine the best
alternative.

The current and expected traffic along the routes over the analysis periodjustify the
upgrading to a higher level o f standard. Lower cost solutions are not viable andthe
recommended solutions (Table 7) give optimal results. It is, therefore, economically
justifiedto upgrade these gravel roads to asphalt standard.




                                                 7

Recommendation
Based o n the economic analysis o f the project options (using revised costs), as well as
overall engineering and traffic assessment, the following alternatives were selected for
eachproject case.

Table 7. ProDosedODtions




AdiAbutdAdwa-Shire




VI. ExpectedOutcomes

There will be no change inthe project's outcome indicators and expected outcomes. The
Ethiopian Roads Authority i s updating the performance indicators accordingly.
However, their timing will adjust to the revised implementation plan arising from the re-
biddingo fthe roadworks contracts listedbelow.

(i)     Upgrading o fAssela-Dodola Junction road (116km)
(ii)    Upgrading o f the AdiaAbudAdwa-Shire road (83km).
(iii)   The construction o f the AssossdSherkole-Blue Nile road (71 km) to gravel
        standard; and,
(iv)    The construction o f the BlueNile-Guba road (66 km) to gravel standard.

VII. Benefitsand Risks

The risks associated with this additional financing, remainunchanged from those already
identified inthe original Project Appraisal Document (Report No. 29877-ET) dated
August 23,2004. Duringthe implementationprocess two risks inparticular became
evident. First is the low level o f competition among bidders. Second, bidders didnot
provide all the required information (e.g. areas o f work program and methodology; timely
availability o f equipment; andprovision o f appropriate indices for price adjustment). This
resultedina longer period for bidevaluation as there was a need to request additional
information to complete the BidEvaluation. Contractor performance that ledto longer
contract completion periods has also been observed under the APL 1.To mitigate these
risks will require greater scrutiny and substantiation o f international contractor
qualification data, during contractors' prequalification and taking prompt action such as
early termination during contract implementation ifthere is persistent evidence o fpoor
performance.




                                              8

Allbiddingdocuments will be subject to prior reviewbythe Bank andthe bidevaluation
andproposed contract awards will be reviewedby OPRC. Extra care has been taken in
hiring consultants for supervision (TORSand selection process were approvedbythe
Regional ProcurementManager); andthe regular field supervision missions would be
intensified and comprise the right skills.

Furthermore, the Borrower has requested Bank's support and assistance inidentifying
sources of low competition, for which the project will assist inmobilizing the requisite
expertise. Ethiopia also intends to make concerted efforts to promote its construction
industryoutside the country to attract contractors from abroad. The country-specific
risks, beyond those noted inthe original APL2, along with their mitigation measures are
addressed further inthe recently approved InterimCountry Assistance Strategy (May
2006).

VIII. FinancialTermsAnd ConditionsForTheAdditionalFinancing

Standard IDA Credit terms apply to this Credit. The financial management and
disbursement arrangements for APL2 will be equally applicable for the additional
financing. The current financial management and disbursement arrangements for APL 2
are adequate to handle the financial transactions o f the additional financing. The audited
ERAentity andproject financial statements for the year ended 7 July2005 from ERA
have beenreceivedby the Bank.




                                              9

                                             Attachment 1



        Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementinvolvinginternationalcompetition



1.         Works andnon-consultingservices.

    a.     List o f contract Packages, which areprocured following ICB, and reached Contract
    award stage:



       1           2                 3            4       5         6           7               8           9
      Ref        Contract        Estimated   Procurement P-Q    Domestic     Review          Status       Comments
      No.      (Description)       cost        Method           Preference   by Bank
                                  US$ M                         (Yeslno)     (PriorI



     IAl.I       A -Upgradingof Assela -Dodola/ Shashemene-GobaRoad (1contract)
           Dodola-Goba        I   45.74     1   ICB     I YesI     Yes    I    Prior    1  Award Stage I          1
                            B.Upgradingof GobGob-WoldyiaRoad(2 contracts)
      B1.  GobGob-Gashena     I   27.86     1   ICB     I Yes      Yes         Prior       Award Stage
      B2.I1Gashena- Woldyia   I   45.75     I   ICB     I YesII    Yes    II   Prior    II Award Stage II

     I                        C. Constructionof FederaVLinkRoad(1 Contract)
      C1. IMagna- Mechara     I   57.82          ICB     1YesI     Yes    I    Prior    I  Award Stage  I


     b.     List o f contract Packages, which wiZZ be re-bid following ICB, contracting:


      Ref        Contract        Estimated   Procurement P-Q    Domestic      Review        Expected      Comments
      No.      (Description)       cost        Method           Preference   by Bank       Bid-Opening
                                  US$M                           (Yeslno)     (Prior I        Date
                                                                               Post)


     [AI. /Assela Dodola
                 -A -UpgradingofAssela -Dodola/ Shashemene-Goba Road (1contract)
                              I    57.13    I    ICB     1Yes  1   Yes    I    Prior    I  Nov. 01,2006 I

     IB1.                    B. Upgradingof Shire- AdiAbun/Adwa(1contract)
          \Shire-Adwa           1  43.09    1    ICB     IYes  1   Yes      1  Prior     1 Nov. 01,2006  1
                  C. Constructionof Assosa/Sherkole-GubaRegionalRoad (2 Contracts)
      C1. IAssosdSherkole-AbayI    22.39    I            1     1          I    Prior     I Nov.01,2006
      C2. hbay - Guba         I                  ICB      Yes      Yes
                                   27.73    I    ICB     IYes  I   Yes      I  Prior      1Nov. 01,2006 II




                                                    10



