Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3989-1-ET 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Second Roads Sector Development Support Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 7, 2006 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3989-1-ET 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated August 7, 2006, entered into between FEDERAL 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
fifty-nine million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 59,800,000) (
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Financing Agreement, shall cause the Project to be carried 
out by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
Proclamation No.80/1997 of the Recipient shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b) 
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
(a) 
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement 
occurs and is continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice of the event 
has been given by the Association to the Recipient. 
(b) 
The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement 
occurs. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
(b) 
Amendments to the Project Agreement have been executed on behalf of 
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity. 
5.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding 
upon the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity in accordance 
with its terms. 
5.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under Article IV and V of the General Conditions 
and Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall terminate is 20 years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
P.O. Box 1905 
Addis Ababa 
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
MINFIN  21147 
  (251-111) 
551355 
6.03. 
The Association’s address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Addis Ababa, Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATRIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
 
By: 
 
 
 
  /s/ Ato Mekonnen Manyazewal 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Herbert 
Acquay 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in increasing its road 
transport infrastructure and improving the reliability thereof, strengthening the capacity 
for road construction, management and maintenance and enhancing the financing 
program in relation thereto in order to ensure sustainability, and creating conditions 
conducive to private sector participation in the road transport sector. 
The Project consists of the Original Project, as modified to the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the
 
Recipient shall make the proceeds 
of the Financing available to the Project Implementing Entity under a subsidiary 
agreement between the Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, under 
terms and conditions approved by the Association
 (“Subsidiary Agreement”). 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement of any of its provisions. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report on the progress of the monitoring and evaluation indicators shall 
cover the period of one year of the Project implementation, and shall be furnished 
to the Association not later than four months after the end of the period covered 
by such report. 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than December 31, 2011. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
The Recipient shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to prepare and furnish 
to the Association not later than forty-five days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to have its Financial 
Statements audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the 
General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the 
period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than six months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan. 
B. 
The Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to update the 
Procurement Plan in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish such update to the Association not later than 12 months 
after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Association’s approval.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Works under 
Part A(1) of the 
Project 
59,800,000 
100% of foreign expenditures 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
59,800,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.   
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each May 15 and November 15: 
 
Commencing May 15, 2016, to and including 
November 15, 2026 
1% 
Commencing November 15, 2026, to and 
including May 15, 2046 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005; 
4. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Second Roads Sector Development Support Project between the Recipient and 
the Association, dated March 10, 2005 (Credit No. 3989-ET), as amended to the 
date of this Agreement; 
5. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement; 
6. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
7. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 18, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs; 
8. 
“Program” means the program designed to improve reliability of access to road 
transport infrastructure in the territory of the Recipient with a view to remove 
constraints to economic growth, thus contributing to poverty alleviation through 
improvements in rural and urban connectivity, market integration, accessibility to 
basic social services, and trade facilitation, as described in the letter from the 
Recipient to the Association dated June 25, 2004; 
9. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means Ethiopian Roads Authority; and 
10. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I. A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement pursuant to which the Recipient shall make the 
proceeds of the Credit available to the Project Implementing Entity.
Page  13
-
12
-
