                                            CONFORMED COPY


                                      CREDIT NUMBER 4718-ET




Financing Agreement
 (Second Additional Financing for Second Road Sector
           Development Support Project)


                      between


FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA


                        and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                 Dated June 3, 2010
                                                        CREDIT NUMBER 4718-ET

                            FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated June 3, 2010, entered into between FEDERAL
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing
additional financing for the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, this
        Agreement, and the Original Financing Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to
        sixty-five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
        (SDR 65,300,000) (“Financing” or “Credit”) to assist in financing the Original
        Project (“Project”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the
        repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.
                                           -2-



                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the
        Program. To this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
        obligations under the Financing Agreement, the Recipient shall cause the Project
        to be carried out by the Project Implementing Entity in accordance with the
        provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

        (a)     Proclamation No.80/1997 of the Recipient shall have been amended,
                suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
                adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any
                of its obligations under the Project Agreement.

        (b)     A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
                Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following:

        (a)     The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
                occurs and is continuing for a period of 60 days after notice of the event
                has been given by the Association to the Recipient.

        (b)     The event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
                occurs.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following: namely, that
        the Subsidiary Agreement has been amended and executed on behalf of the
        Recipient and the Project Implementing Entity, in a manner satisfactory to the
        Association, to reflect as necessary the terms of this Agreement.

5.02.   The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following: namely, that the amended
        Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and
        the Project Implementing Entity and is legally binding upon the Recipient and the
        Project Implementing Entity in accordance with its terms.
                                           -3-



5.03.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
        date of this Agreement.

5.04.   For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this
        Agreement.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance and
        economic development.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
                P. O. Box 1905
                Addis Ababa
                Ethiopia

                Cable:                  Telex:                  Facsimile:

                MINFIN                  21147                   (251-111) 551355

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable:                  Telex:                  Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI)            1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.
                                       -4-



        AGREED at Addis Ababa, Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, as of the
day and year first above written.

                      FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA


                      By


                                                                 /s/ Ahmed Shide
                                                        Authorized Representative


                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                      By


                                                               /s/ Kenichi Ohashi
                                                        Authorized Representative
                                            -5-



                                     SCHEDULE 1

                                   Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Implementation, Institutional and Other Arrangements; Project
        Monitoring, Reporting, and Evaluation; Financial Management, Financial
        Reports and Audits; and Procurement

        Sections I (Subsidiary Agreement), II (Project Monitoring, Reporting and
        Evaluation), and III (Procurement) of the Additional Financing Agreement are
        hereby incorporated by reference in this Section I.A and shall apply, mutatis
        mutandis, to this Agreement, and the Recipient undertakes to comply with the
        provisions thereof to the same extent as if such provisions had been set out in full
        in this Agreement.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section II.     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.      General

1.      The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
        additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
        (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated
        May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made
        applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible
        Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.

2.      The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the
        amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be
        financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
                                               -6-



                                      Amount of the
                                     Credit Allocated      Percentage of Expenditures
              Category              (expressed in SDR)           to be Financed

     (1) Works under Parts A(1)          65,300,000        100% of foreign
         and B(1) of the Project                           expenditures
     TOTAL AMOUNT                        65,300,000



B.        Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.        Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be
          made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.

2.        The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
                                         -7-



                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule


                                                    Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                               repayable
              Date Payment Due                       (expressed as a percentage)*
On each April 15 and October 15:

Commencing October 15, 2020, to and including                     1%
April 15, 2030

Commencing October 15, 2030, to and including                     2%
April 15, 2050


* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of
the General Conditions.
                                            -8-



                                       APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Additional Financing Agreement” means the agreement between the Recipient
        and the Association for Additional Financing to the Second Road Sector
        Development Support Project dated August 7, 2006, as amended to the date of
        this Agreement (Credit No. 3989-1-ET).

2.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006.

3.      “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to
        this Agreement.

4.      “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and
        revised in October 2006. (This definition supersedes the previous definitions in
        the Original Financing Agreement with respect to new procurement (if any)
        undertaken pursuant to this Agreement.)

5.      “Environmental Management Plans” means any environmental management
        plans prepared for the Project, pursuant to the Recipient’s environmental and
        social management framework, satisfactory to the Association.

6.      “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association
        General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
        through October 15, 2006).

7.      “Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a
        Second Road Sector Development Support Project between the Recipient and the
        Association dated March 10, 2005, as amended to the date of this Agreement
        (Credit No. 3989-ET).

8.      “Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing
        Agreement.

9.      “Program” means a program designed to improve reliability of access to road
        transport infrastructure in the territory of the Recipient with a view to remove
        constraints to economic growth, thus contributing to poverty alleviation through
        improvements in rural and urban connectivity, market integration, accessibility to
        basic social services, and trade facilitation, as referred to in the letter furnished
        by the Recipient to the Association, dated April 2, 2009.
                                        -9-



10.   “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October, 2006. (This definition supersedes the previous definitions in the
      Original Financing Agreement with respect to new procurement (if any)
      undertaken pursuant to this Agreement.)

11.   “Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s updated procurement plan for the
      Project, dated March 7, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the
      Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the
      same shall be further updated from time to time in accordance with the
      provisions of said paragraphs. (This definition supersedes the previous
      definitions in the Original Financing Agreement with respect to new procurement
      (if any) undertaken pursuant to this Agreement.)
