C&. 2<OG                        FILE COPY                            RESTRICTED
Report No.  PEE-29a
T11 rsport à for oflcl use onb byW ths Onk Group antd picaly authorized eranizations
or peno. k amy not b. pubhhed, quotbd or clted without Rank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not acoept rnponoibty for tho accu3y e  oemplteness of tihe report.
INTBRNATIONAL BANK POR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
MOROCCO
July 6, 1971
Education Projects Department



Currency Equimalents
DH 1 - U.S. $ 0.20
DH 5 -U.S. $ 1.00
Area
1 hectare = 2.4&71 acres



MOROCCO
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                      ...... i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                          1
IDA lending for education in Morocco.                               1
Socio-economic background.                                          2
II. EDUCATION AND TRAINING .2
III.  COST AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION.                                      4
IV. EDUCATION AND TRAINING NEEDS                       ..6
A.   The need for education reform and expansion.                   6
B.   Education development plans and programs .10
V. THE PROJECT ... 11
General                             . .il
Education research and teacher training ...............  12
Secondary education (scientific and technical) . .                 14
Vocational training centers   .                 .15
Agricultural education and training    .            .16
Technical assistance    ..17
Cost of the project ...................................  17
Implementation and disbursement                  .       .         19
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACIIED AND RECOMMENDATION .21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Morocco in November/December, 1970. The mission consisted of Messrs.
J.C. Jones (technical educator, consultant), J. Guijt (economist),
A.S. Kinawy (architect), T. Terrefe (general educator), A. Kehoe (agri-
cultural educator, FAO Consultant), M. Lobry (veterinary education
specialist, FAO consultant) and E. Suter (medical education specialist,
consultant).






Annexes:
1.   The Education System
Educational Pyramid
Table 1: Enrollment by Grade and Controlling Authority
Table 2: Enrollment in Higher Education
Table 3:  Enrollments in Technical Secondary Schools and in
Vocational Training Centers
Chart 1: Organization of Ministries of Education
Chart 2:  Structure of the Education System
2.   Special Fund Projects in Education and Vocational Training
3.   Total and Educational Public Expenditures
4.   Domestic Sources of Funds for Education
5.   Government Recurrent Expenditures on Education
6.   Recurrent Costs per Student-Year
7.   Government Capital Expenditures on Education
8.   Projected Government Recurrent Expenditures on Education,
1970-1982
9.   Teaching Personnel in Secondary Schools
10.  Teacher Supply and Demand in Second-Cycle Secondary Schools
11.  Teacher Supply and Demand in Firat-Cycle Secondary Schools
12.  Curriculum of Higher Teacher Training College
13.  Present and Projected Enrollments and Output of Higher Teacher
Training College
14.  Curricula in Regional Teacher Training Colleges
15.  Enrollment and Output of Regional Teacher Training Colleges
16.  Curricula in Technical Secondary Schools and in Vocational
Training Centers
17.  Curricula in Department of Veterinary Medicine
18.  Summary of Estimated Project Costs
19.  Contingency Allowances



20. Comparative Capital Costs in New Project Institutions
21. Project Implementation Schedules
22. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Map
.



MOROCCO
BASIC DATA (1970)
A. General
Area                                :450.000 km  (174.000 m 2
Total population                    : 15.5 million (mid-1970 estimate)
Average population density          : 34.4 per km2
Annual rate of population growth  : 3.2% (estimate)
B.  Education (1970)
Literacy                                15-20%
Primary school enrollment as a
percentage of total age group
7-11, incl.                            53.5%
Secondary school enrollment as
percentage of age group 12-18,
incl.                 lst cycle        17.1%
2nd cycle        4.7%
Education expenditures
Central Government            : US$141.6 million
Private                       : US$ 15.4 million
Total                         : US$157.0 million
Education expenditures as
percentage of GDP                  :   4.7%






MOROCCO
Appraisal of an Education Project
Summary and Conclusions
(i)       The educational system of Morocco is based upon that of France
and tends to follow changes in that country's practice. The rate of
school enrollments is fairly high at the primary (53.5%) and lower secondary
(17.1%) levels, but very low at the upper secondary (4.7%) and higher
education (0.9%) levels. Enrollments at the latter levels are heavily
biased towards the arts and law, with a resultant weakness in science,
medicine, and engineering. This weakness is reflected in the small numbers
of upper-cycle secondary school science teachers in training (less than
6% of the total) and the unsatisfactory nature of science teaching where,
partly as a result of poor facilities, emphasis is laid upon theory rather
than upon practice.
(ii)      The proposed project would be the second education project
financed by IDA in Morocco. The first project, for which a credit of
$11.0 million was extended in 1965, was for expanding secondary education.
Its execution has been delayed owing to administrative shortcomings, in
particular the lack of qualified full-time staff, inadequate supervision
and cumbersome contracting procedures; it is now expected that the 18
schools included in the project will be completed by the end of 1971.
(iii)     Moroccan education is insufficiently responsive to the country's
economic and social needs. Inequalities of educational opportunities
persist; for a number of professions, training remains far below the man-
power needs; the structure and content of many courses are unlikely to
respond to the needs of students and employers. A number of these problems
are deeply rooted and not responsive to easy short-term remedies. Local
research and experîmentation and technical assistance in the field of plan-
ning and management should provide a basis for future reform. The second
project, recommended in this report, will have a double objective: (a)
to expand training mainly at higher, post-secondary levels and (b) to
assist in educational research and reform. The proposed project would
meet only part of the needs in these fields. There are further urgent
training needs for medical doctors, engineers, engineering technicians
and primary school teachers and for the strengthening of science and
industrial arts courses in lower secondary schools. These needs, however,
could not be included in the proposed project owing to inadequate planning
and preparation but could form components of a future IDA project.
(iv)      The proposed lending would help finance:
Construction of and equipment for: - (a) a National Institute of
Pedagogy, (b) a Higher Teacher Training College, (c) six Regional
Teacher Training Colleges, (d) two Vocational Training Centers, (e) a
Department of Veterinary Medicine.



- il -
Extensions to and equipment for: - (a) six senior secondary schools
(for science teaching), (b) a middle-level Forestry School;
Equipment for: - (a) ten industrial secondary school6, (b) thirteen
commercial secondary schools, and
Technical assistance for project lmplementation and achool maintenance.
(v)       The supply of sufficiently qualified students would be adequate
to the needs of the project, but it would be necessary to continue the
employment of expatriate teachers beyond the period of ten years (1972-
82) as envisaged by the Government.
(vi)      The existing project unit (First Education Project) has been
reconstituted and strengthened in order to provide adequate administration
and supervision for both IDA projects.
(vii)     The total cost of the proposed project would be $13.5 million of
which $7.4 million would be in foreign exchange. Procurement would be in
conformity with the IDA rules regarding international competitive bidding.
(viii)    Subject to the provisions of chapter VI of this report, the
project is suitable for an IDA credit of $8.5 million including $1.1 million
of local currency financlng for a period of 50 years including a grace per-
iod of ten years.



I. INTRODUCTION
IDA Lending for Education in Morocco
1.01      The first IDA credit of $11 million for education in Morocco
(number 79-MOR) was made în 1965 for Che construction of 21 new
multilateral secondary schools. Three schools were deleted from the
project in 1968 and the remaining 18 schools should be completed before
the end of 1971. The project execution has been delayed by shortcomings
in management: government staff entrusted with the supervision of
project implementation have been short in numbers and experience, and
have been burdened with numerous other duties. As a result, progresa in
school construction and equipment procurement has been poorly supervised
and subject to considerable delays. The problem has been worsened by
inefficient and cumbersome procedures for civil works contracting,
inadequate record keeping, and poor communications among the Departments
concerned. The communication problems and the complicated procedures
for certification and payment of cotitractors' bills have been responsible
for the considerable delays ln the disbursement of the first IDA credit.
Only recently withdrawals from the credit were speeded up but about 40%
atill remains undisbursed.
1.02      In support of the first project, the government agreed in 1965
to expand the training of secondary school teachers with UNDP/Unesco
assistance. While a rapid expansion in teacher training has not yet been
achieved, serious obstacles in this field are now removed and a realistic
expansion plan has been developed. A major objective of the second
education project, proposed in this report, is to assist the Moroccan
goveroment in implementing this plan and thereby to ensure, also, the
success of the first project schools.
1.03      A Unesco mission visited Morocco in November/December, 1969 to
identify priority items for a second education project. Its recommendations
were discussed with the government by an IDA reconnaissance mission in
July, 1970. With the help of a Unesco project preparation mission in
September/October 1970, the government prepared a detailed request for
IDA assistance which was submitted in October 1970.  The project was
appraised in November/December 1970 by a mission consisting of Messrs.
J.C. Jones (technical educator, consultant), J. GuiJt (economist),
A.S. Kinawy (architect), T. Terrefe (general educator), A. Kehoe (agricul-
tural educator, FAO consultant), M. Lobry (veterinary education specialist,
FAO consultant) and E. Suter (medical education specialist, consultant).
1.04      Project proposals, as received from the government, consisted
of a large number of items in many different fields of education and train-
ing. Not all of these items were equally well conceived and prepared, many
resulted from last-minute decisions and alterations of which the details
and consequences had not been worked out. It was therefore necessary to de-
lete a number of items from the project, for consideration by IDA at a
later date (paras. 4.19 and 4.20).



-2-
1.05      The project, as modified, consists of:
(a) Construction of and equipment for: a National Institute of
Pedagogy, a Higher Teacher Training College, six Regional
Teacher Training Colleges, two Vocational Training Centers,
a Department of Veterinary Medicine.
(b) Extensions to and equipment for: six senior secondary
schools (for science teaching), a middle level Forestry
School.
(c) Equipment for: ten industrial secondary schools, thirteen
commercial secondary schools.
(d) Technical assistance for project implementation.
1.06      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$13.5 million
and the foreign exchange component at US$7.4 million.
Socio-economic background
1.07      Situated at the North-Western extremity of the African continent,
Morocco forms the western flank of the Arab world. Its proximity to West-
ern Europe, favorable climate, touristic attractions and political stabil-
ity are important factors in enhancing its economic development potential.
The population, estimated at 15.5 million in 1970, is growing at the rapid
rate of 3.2% p.a. Two-thirds of the population live in rural areas.
1.08      Total employment is 4.9 million of which nearly 90% is in the
traditional sector (mainly agriculture). Modern sector employment is
only 480,000 (1968) and estimated to be growing at a rate of 4% per annum.
The total number of unemployed is expected to rise from 690,000 or 12.4%
of the labor force in 1968 to 900,000 or 14.2% in 1973.  The proposed
project will have a limited direct effect on the unemployment problem, main-
ly by providing industrial vocational training in areas where such training
can improve the employment prospects of unskilled workers.
1.09      Total GDP in 1970 amounted to US$3,300 million (average GDP per
capita $214) and is expected to grow at 4-5% per annum. Agriculture
contributed 28%, mining 5%, industry (including construction, public
works and energy) 20%, commerce, transportation and tourism 37% and the
public services 10%. Fastest growing sectors are tourism and energy.
Il. EDUCATION AND TRAINING
2.01      General.  Moroccan education suffers from a number of complex
problems which handicap balanced development, jeopardize its relevance
and efficiency and, indirectly, slow down the change from a traditional



- 3 -
to a modern society. Some of these problems - such as those of the duality
of language, the low participation rate of women in education and the
retention of outdated educational structures (partly derived from the
French system) are deeply rooted and not responsive to easy, short-term
remedies.  Others, like the persistent organizational and management
problems and the rural-urban imbalances, arise from weaknesses in the
existing administrative structure and are beyond the reach of purely
technical reform. A number of problems, however - such as the serious
shortage of qualified teachers, the dearth of proper achool facilities
and equipment, and the need for improvement in some areas of technical
education could be remedied by direct measures, supported by appropriate
outside assistance.
2.02      Because the effect of these direct measures on the quality and
efficiency of the education system as a whole is limited, a balanced
strategy for outside support to Moroccan education should also include
indirect measures such as technical assistance, selected studies by
expert organizations, and support for local research, experimentation
and innovation.
2.03      A description of the education and training system is given
in Annex 1; this chapter summarizes its main features. Primary
education enrollments grew rapidly between 1956 and 1964 but have been
virtually stationary since then. Present enrollments in the five-year
course are characterized by marked imbalances in urban-rural and male-
female participation. The rates of drop-out and class repetition are
very high due to (i) incomplete schools (ii) insufficiently qualified
teachers, and (iii) unsuitable curricula. All subjects are taught in
Arabic by Moroccan teachers. Primary school teachers are trained in
17 small; uneconomically-sized regional training colleges (total en-
rollment: 1,604 students); there is need for consolidation and improve-
ment.
O         2.04      Secondary education consists of a first cycle of 4 years of
general education followed by a diversified second cycle of 3 years;
the language of instruction is French.
2.05      The training of secondary school teachers - long a field of
conflicting interests between the University and the E.N.S. (about the
proper organization of the teacher training courses) and suffering from
an insufficient supply of secondary school graduates and from structural
imbalances - is now being completely reorganized and strengthened.  Teachers
for the second cycle of secondary schools will be trained in a one-year
course at the Ecole Normale Superieure (E.N.S.) after they have completed
their first degree at the University; teachers for the first cycle will
be trained in a three-year course in regional training colleges after
completion of secondary education.



-4 -
2.06      Technical education:  craft education is no longer given at
lower secondary level but, at upper secondary level, technician courses
leading to a "diplome de technicien marocain" are offered to some 2,000
students in the industrial sections of eleven lycees.  Most of these
courses will be discontinued this year in favor of a "baccalaureat en
mathematiques et techniques" (para. 4.09). Courses of a more special-
ized character will fit better into the country's system of vocational
training. No facilities presently exist for the training of technicians
at post-secondary level.
2.07      Vocational training is provided by the Ministry of Labor, with
technical assistance from I.L.O., through a system of vocational training
centers giving short courses in a variety of industrial and commercial
occupations.
2.08      Commercial education at secondary level (second cycle) is given
in three-year courses at 13 lycees, leading to a "diplome de technicien"
in commerce and bookkeeping, business administration, and secretarial
work. Courses leading to the first two diplomas will be replaced by
courses leading to a "baccalaureat economique" and access to higher
education.
2.09      Agricultural education is the responsibility of the Ministry
of Agriculture. At upper-secondary level eight specialized schools
provide four-year courses for field assistants (adjoints techniques)
in a number of branches. Five centers train field agents (agents techniques)
in a two-year course. At post-secondary level, the National School of
Agriculture trains field engineers and agricultural teachers in a four-
year course; forestry engineers are trained at the National Forestry
School; the National Institute of Agronomy provides a six-year course
for agronomists.
2.10      Higher education (virtually all in French) is given at two
universities and a number of specialized institutes of higher learning.
Total enrollments in 1970 were 12,770 students; in addition, some 3,000
students are studying abroad. Most of the students are enrolled in the
classical, literary and liberal arts courses at the Mohammed V and
Quaraouiyine Universities.  In 1969, only 27% of the new entrants were
admitted to scientific and technical studies.
III. COST AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION
Sources of Finance
3.01      The central governuent budget is practically the only domestic
source of recurrent and capital funds for education; the share of private
education is small, no fees are charged for public education and the
contribution from local communities and private industry is negligible.
Among the external sources of finance, the most important is that of



- 5 -
France, estimated at $6.5 million in 1970 (not included in the cost figures
given below); it is given mainly in the form of salary supplements to
the 7,000 French teachers and other staff working in Morocco. UNDP/SF
assistance over the last ten years has made available $ 8.5 million for
the establishment of a number of institutions for higher and middle level
training (Annex 2).
Education Cost and Expenditure
3.02      Total expenditure by the Ministry of Education increased by 41%
over the last six years and amounted to DR 670 million or 4.1% of GDP in
1970 (Annex 3). If education expenditure by other ministries (Agriculture,
Labor) and by the private sector were included the amount would probably
be raised to a high 4.7% of GDP (Annex 4). Capital expenditure accounted
for only 7% of total education expenditure in 1970 but was nearly doubled
this year and will account for more than 11% in the 1971 education budget.
3.03      Recurrent expenditure by the Ministry of Education, expressed
as a percentage of the recurrent government budget, remains relatively
stable at 22% in 1971. Taking into account the education expenditure of
other ministries, the government spends a substantial part of its
recurrent budget on education (more than 23%). Primary education i9
still the largest single item but its percentage share in the education
budget declined from nearly 50% to 46% between 1968 and 1971, reflecting
the present halt in the development of primary education. Expenditure
on secondary and higher education increased rapidly over the same period
and now accounts for 39% and 12% respectively of the recurrent education
budget (Annex 5). Costs per student year are shown in Annex 6.
3.04      Excluding boarding expenditure and scholarships, recurrent
education costs consist almost entirely of personnel expenditure, expendi-
ture on teaching materials at all levels being extremely low. The sharp
increase in 1971 expenditure, for instance, is a direct result of a
general 20% increase in teacher salaries. At post-primary level, the
high personnel costs are related to the predominance of expatriate staff
with low teaching hours and low student-teacher ratios. In secondary
education, for instance, a French teacher costs the government considerably
more than his local counterpart despite the subsidy given by the French
government and has set a standard of low teaching workloads. Expansion
in the training of Moroccan teachers and replacement of expatriate staff,
to which the proposed project would contribute, would have a profound
impact on the level of education costs.
3.05      Capital expenditure for education represents a relatively small
part of total public investments, sharply fluctuating over the last seven
years between a low of 2.2% (1967) and a high of 6.9% (1968) (Annex 3).
The changing pattern in allocation of capital funds to different levels
of education, revealing considerably greater emphasis on higher education
in the wake of recent student unrest, is reflected in Annex 7. According
to the Five Year Plan 1968/1972 capital expenditure for education would



-6 -
be allocated as follows: primary: 39%, secondary: 53%, and higher: 8%.
The 1971 budget which devotes 40% to higher education, (including elements
not foreseen in the plan, such as the new campus in Rabat) represents
a marked departure from the plan. First designe of some new campus
buildings show a distinct lack of cost-consciousness.
3.06      Projections of future recurrent costs show an increase at
constant prices of 6.8% per annum between 1970 and 1982, slightly high-
er than the expected increase of 6.0% per annum in the government's
total recurrent budget (Annex 8). As a result the recurrent budget of
the Ministry of Education would increase from 22% of the total budget to
24% in 1982 (excluding educational expenditure by other ministries).
This ratio is fairly high particularly as these projections do not allow
for an expansion of primary education in excess of the rate of population
growth. Although present plans remain below these targets, it is to be
expected that the demand for education will lead to a more rapid increase
in enrollment and higher claim on financial resources. Tle cost projections,
therefore, indicate a clear need for stricter cost controls, leading
to a gradual reduction in unit costs, if the government is to expand
and improve its education system.
3.07      The proposed project would constitute only a small proportion
of total capital and recurrent expenditure for education. Its total
cost, estimated at $13 million, of which 37% would be borne by the government,
would account for 24% of all education investments included in the Five
Year Plan 1968/1972. Annual recurrent expenditures, resulting from the
project, are estimated at $4.6 million or only 2.5% of total recurrent
expenditure for education in 1975. Beyond 1975 the project should substantially
contribute to a reduction in the personnel costs of secondary education
and provide a high rate of return on the initial investment.
IV. EDUCATION AND TRAINING NEEDS
A. The Need for Education Reform and Expansion
*4.01      Reliable, comprehensive manpower projections do not exist but
available evidence indicates the need for a quantitative expansion of
the education and training system in only a limited number of fields,
mainly in higher education. The more urgent need is to improve the qual-
ity and efficiency of the education system and to make it more responsive
to the needs of students and employers.
4.02      In primary education, major efforts must be undertaken to end
the present stagnation in enrollment growth (partly due to the closure of
a number of rural schools), to correct the unequal distribution of scholari-
zation as between the sexes and urban and rural areas, to reduce the
high failure rate, and to improve students' preparation for secondary educa-
tion, other forms of training, and future employment. Government plans
include the extension of the primary education course from five to six



-7-
years, re-orientation of the primary school curricula, and re-organization
and improvement of teacher training. The last two steps in particular could
lead to a significant improvement in the quality of primary education.
4.03      Pending these reforms, secondary education will continue to
admit students who are ill-prepared and lacking in language and other
basic skills, including knowledge of French. The secondary education
system (designed on a traditionally academic pattern, with rigorous
examination standards) is poorly equipped to provide remedial action
or to do more than prepare the most gifted students for a further
academic career. More practical, technical courses have received in-
sufficient attention, and have been either abandoned or converted to
courses of a general nature. General secondary education is weak in
science teaching which is too theoretical with very little student partici-
pation in experimental work. The student failure rate has doubled in the
last five years; a majority of students do not reach the end of the second-
ary course. More than 60% of the teaching force consists of expatriates,
few of whom speak Arabic; at lower secondary level 75% of the teachers are
unqualified. (Annex 9).
4.04      Major elements of a consistent strategy for the improvement of
secondary education should be: (i) a reform of the structure and curricula
of secondary education (including industrial, commercial and agricultural
education); (ii) a rapid increase in the number of Moroccan teachers trained;
and (iii) the provision of laboratories, workshops and equipment needed for
more modern curricula.
4.05      Present government plans already include some modest beginnings
of reform: the introduction of practical skill courses at lower secondary
level, stronger and more broadly based curricula in upper secondary
technical education, and the strengthening of science teaching at both
levels. Successful implementation of more fundamental reforms will
depend on the results of local research, experimentation and curricula
revision; these services are being planned and need support.
4.06      The need for secondary school teachers is estimated as follows.
Enrollments in secondary education are expected to increase from 245,800
in 1969 to 392,800 in 1982, an annual rate of 3.6% which is only slightly
higher than the rate of population growth. To provide for this expansion,
to replace expatriate teachers, and to replace or re-train unqualified
Moroccan teachers, some 12,000 teachers for the first cycle of secondary
schools and 4,500 for the second cycle, must be trained before 1982
(Annexes 10 and 11). The existing Ecole Normale Superieure could supply
about a quarter only of these requirements.
4.07      Many secondary schools are poorly equipped for a modern teach-
ing program and in need of laboratories, workshops and equipment. Better
science teaching with student participation in experimental work is not
possible in many schools due to lack of such facilities. Likewise, gov-
ernment plans to reform the industrial and commercial secondary achool
courses, described in the following paragraphs, cannot be implemented
without additional equipment.



- 8 -
4.08      Numerically, the output of graduates from general secondary
schools lias grown rapidly in recent years and is now sufficient to meet
the demand for university entrants. A severe shortage of science
graduates has prevented the growtlh of higher scientific studies, but
this bottleneck is now being removed. Direct employment opportunities
for secondary school graduates are limited since many positions at mid-
dle level are filled by the numerous students who have dropped out from
secondary school and university courses.
4.09      In technical secondary education the existing terminal industrial
and commercial courses have proven unsuccessful. The industrial courses
leading to a "diplome de technicien marocain" are neither sufficiently
practical to justify employment leading to lower supervisory posts nor
sufficiently academic for employment in a technical office or for access
to higher education. In consequence many graduates are without employment
or are in posts unconnected with their training. The government has
decided to change these courses to a "baccalaureat en mathematiques et
techniques", a new type of course in which the student is introduced to
a wider range of engineering techniques and to a deeper understanding of
the principles lying behind their practice.
4.10      Students will have access to higher education and will be well
prepared for training as technicians and engineers. At present, opportuni-
ties for such training exist only at the Mohammadia engineering school and
the achool of mines, but governnent plans to expand engineering and establish
technician training will greatly increase the need for technically oriented
graduates from secondary schools. A number of these graduates will find
direct employment. Introduction of the new course in ten existing technical
lycees, with an annual output of 250 graduates, will require little invest-
ment since use will be made of existing workshops and only additional
equipment is needed.
4.11      Students following the business management and accountancy
courses in commercial secondary schools face problems which are in many
ways sîmilar to those in industrial schools. The government proposes to
replace the diploma courses in these fields by a "baccalaureat economique"
(the diploma in secretarial work will be maintained) giving access to
higher education. Opportunities for further studies exist in economics,
social sciences, administration and statistics and applied economics.
The thirteen existing commercial schools which will provide the new
courses are in need of additional equipment.
4.12      Agricultural secondary education contributes little to the
development of the agricultural sector and will remain largely unproductive
as long as the presenit unsatisfactory staffing, curricula and methodology
continue.  Job-oriented training programs, using more relevant curricula
tiad boltter tr;lititiig mitlCods, should be developed on the basis of a study
ol tliI iwod for agrieulLural assistants and their place in the field
.oievices.  Above all, tlhe training of agricultural teachers should be
expaîuded and improved. The National School of Agriculture in Meknes
should play a crucial role in teacher training but is understaffed and in



- 9 -
need of technical assistance. Expert assistance to carry out this study
and to staff the National School of Agriculture may be obtained from UNDP/
FAO (para. 4.20).
4.13      The agricultural schools have physical facilities which are not
fully utilized; there is no immediate need for expansion except at the
Royal Forestry School at Sale where, in addition to the present output
of 25 "adjoints techniques", there is need to train 40 "agents techniques"
annually for forest protection and development services.
4.14      Vocational training, in centers under the Ministry of Labor,
needs continuous adjustment and expansion in selected fields to ensure an
adequate supply of skilled labor for the developing industrial sector;
the Ministry plans to expand its output capacity from 1,920 to 2,470
during the five year plan period 1968-1972. The overall target includes
the construction of a vocational training center for the building trades
in Casablanca and for the engineering trades in Kenitra. Vocational
training for the building trades is lacking and the construction of a
first center of this type in the country's largest population and
industrial center is justified provided the level and type of training
match employers' needs. Kenitra has no vocational training facilities
yet and a center for the engineering trades would reflect the city's
growing importance in transportation, industry and mechanized agriculture.
4.15      The growth of higher education in recent years has been rapid
but unbalanced when compared with the country's manpower requirements.
Some institutions of higher learning are generously endowed with physical
facilities which are only partly utilized. Others have been neglected
and are incapable of meeting demands. Staffing is a major problem in
nearly all fields and prevents effective teaching and research. Over
50% of first-year students fail their examninations, change faculty or
discontinue their studies. A comprehensive preinvestment study of the
higher education system is needed to prevent unbalanced and costly
investments in the decade ahead (para 4.20).
4.16      No evidence exists that the faculties and schools of arts and
humanities, to which the greater part of the student body is admitted,
need further expansion to meet manpower demands. The exception is the
training of teachers for the first-cycle of secondary achools (see
paras. 4.03 and 4.06 above). The faculty of Science is concerned both
to train scientista and to provide a basic scientific training for
students following other courses, including teacher training. The
future role of the faculty is still under discussion but the existing
facilities are adequate to the present demand.
4.17      The more immediate and pressing needs are for a greatly
expanded output of science teachers, medical doctors and engineers; in
addition, new courses should be created for the training of veterinarians
and higher level engineering technicians. The majority of posts in these
professions are filled with expatriates, the replacement of whom is not



- 10 -
even a remote possibility given tlhe present annual supply of graduates.
In agriculture, capacity and need are better balanced. The following
table shows thie relation between training capacity and man-power needs
in a number of main sectors:
1968                1970            1970-80
Total employment    Annual training       Annual
Number  % expatriate      capacity       training needs
Teachers - first cycle    8,440        60             500                1,200
- second cycle   1,850       71             150                   300
Engineers                  3,500       77             120                  350
Technicians (Higher)       unknown  unknown           nil               unknown
Medical doctors             1,200      85             1501/                 250
Veterinarians                  80      67             nil                    25-30
Agronomists                   760      65            100                    100
1/   Capacity to be reached in 1975 by existing facilities.
B.  Education Development Plans and Programs
4.18      The government has put forward proposals to correct major
deficiencies and to provide for further expansion but these do not form
a coherent, overall development plan; programs are not always consistent
and well-designed and have not all reached the same stage of readiness
for execution. A number of plans are well-prepared and constitute the
proposed project but major efforts are still needed to improve the design
and planning of important sub-sectors and to advance the preparation
of essential institutions.
4.19      Plans in the following areas are insufficiently prepared and
in need of major policy decisions:
(i)  Primary teacher training - where expansion should be planned
in accordance with the development of primary education (where
important reform measures are still to be taken), and where
many small schools should be consolidated and enlarged to create
more viable units with reformed curricula;
(ii)  Industrial arts courses in lower secondary schools and the train-
ing of teachers for such courses; the choice of the type of
course has still to be made;



- il -
(iii) Provision of science laboratories in lower secondary schools
on the basis of a careful inventory of existing school
facilities and their utilization;
(iv) Reform, improvement and future expansion of agricultural educa-
tion and training at middle level and training of teachers of
agriculture;
(v)  Higher medical education, where the plans for the establish-
ment of a second medical faculty still have to be prepared;
(vi) Training of higher level industrial technicians, for which
the plans still have to be developed:
(vii) Expansion of the training of engineers, in accordance with
carefully evaluated needs and with full utilization of
existing training facilities.
4.20      In a number of these fields where existing plans are ill-conceived
or insufficiently prepared, technical assistance will be necessary to support
the government's efforts in developing proposals which are technically
sound, financially feasible and well prepared. Highest priority, in this
respect, should be given to a comprehensive pre-investment study of higher
education, with particular emphasis on: (a) medical education; (b) training
of engineers and technicians and (c) agricultural education and training.
The government has requested assistance for this study from UNDP, which has
expressed interest in providing such support.
V. THE PROJECT
General
5.01      The purpose of the proposed project would be to assist in the
development of secondary and higher education in accordance with priority
needs identified in the previous chapter.  In particular, the project would
help to finance:
(a)  construction and equipment of a National Institute
of Pedagogy, a Higher Teacher Training College and
six Regional Teacher Training Colleges;
(b)  construction and equipment of science facilities for
six general secondary schools;
(c)  additional equipment for ten technical secondary and
thirteen commercial secondary schools;
(d)  construction of and equipment for two vocational training
centers;
(e)  extension of and equipment for the Institute of Agronomy
to form a department of veterinary medicine;
(f)  extension of the Royal School of Forestry;
(g)  technical assistance for project implementation.



- 12 -
5.02      The following table gives furtiier details of the project items:
Accommodation
Project Items                    No.  Student          Student    Staff
Enrollments    Boarding   Housing
New   Total   New  Total New Total
Research and Teacher Training
National Institute of Pedagogy             1    -       -      -      -    -    -
Higher Teacher Training College            1    300    300    300   300  4        4   ^
Regional Teacher Training Colleges         6  4,320  4,320  3,000 3,000 24    24   W
Secondary Education
Secondary Schools - science                6          9,100    -      -    -      -
facilities
Technical Secondary Schools               10    -    2,400    -       -    -      -
(equipment)
Commercial Secondary Schools              13    -    3,400    -       _    _      _
Vocational Training
Vocational Training Centers                2    198    198    -       -    4      4
Agricultural Education and Training
(Higher)
Department of Veterinary Medicine          1    160    160    -       100  -      -
(S econdary)
Royal School of Forestry                   1     80    130      80   130  8    10
Totals             41  5,058 20,008  3,380 3,530 40    42
Education Research and Teacher Training
5.03      The National Institute of Pedagogy, to be located at or near the
University campus in Rabat, would be responsible for (a) research into
the structure, content, and techniques of teaching, with particular at-
tention to the causes of present student failures, (b) coordination of
all training of primary and secondary school teachers, (c) advanced in-
service courses for teachers and supervisors, (d) experimentation with
new teaching equipment, production of prototype material and printing of
manuals. The Institute would have a small teaching material production
center. A governing council would include directors of the teacher
training colleges and representatives of the government and University.
The Institute would have a full-time director assisted by the heads of the
three departments (research, training and documentation). For its research
and training projects, the Institute would use the staff and facilities of
the University and teacher training colleges.



- 13 -
5.04      The proposed project would provide the administrative offices,
conference hall, laboratories and library for the Institute together with
a workshop and printing facilities for the production of prototype equip-
ment and of printed school material.
5.05      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the formal es-
tablishment of the Institute and designation of the Institute's director
will take place before October 31, 1971. Before October 31, 1972 and prior
to the award of the buildi:ng contract, the government will submit to IDA an
outline of the Institute's research, training and staff development pro-
grams prepared by or with the participation of the director designate.
5.06      In teacher training, the higher training college and six regional
colleges, included in the proposed project, would enable the government to
meet the anticipated demand for secondary school teachers and to replace
the expatriate teachers (see para. 4.06) in the early or middle 1980's.
The Higher Teacher Training Colleg  (Ecole Normale Superieure - E.N.S.),
to be located in Rabat, would provide one-year post-graduate courses for
second cycle secondary school teachers. The proposed curriculum of the
new college is satisfactory (Annex 12).  As from 1975, it would have an
output of 300 senior secondary teachers per year (Annex 13) in accordance
with teacher needs.
5.07      Students would be admitted to the college after obtaining
university degrees. The supply of liberal arts graduates is adequate but
that of science graduates is still insufficient. To attract more science
students to the teaching profession, the government has recently decided
to pay additional allowances to science teachers. All students receive
stipends while in training.
5.08      No difficulties are foreseen in meeting the limited staff
requirements through temporary recruitment from among senior inspectors
and counsellors of pedagogy, the staff of the existing E.N.S. and the
group of 24 trainees now studying abroad.
5.09      The project would provide academic and communal facilities for
the new college, dormitories for 300 students and staff housing for
three teachers/supervisors and a caretaker (para. 5.14).
5.10      The six Regional Training Colleges (Centres Pedagogiques
Regionaux - CPR) will provide three-year post-secondary courses for first
cycle secondary school teachers (both pre- and in-service). Each college
will have an enrollment of 720 students; total enrollments of 4,320 students
should produce some 1,200 teachers per year. The proposed curriculum is
satisfactory (Annexes 14 and 15).
5.11      Students will be admitted after completion of secondary educa-
tion; unlike existing training programs, students who failed to obtain a
baccalaureat would also be admitted by passing an entrance examination.
Students will receive stipends while in training.



- 14 -
5.12      Qualified personnel from the sources mentioned in para. 5.08
will not be sufficient to meet tlhe staff requirements of tthe six colleges
and external assistance will be needed in the initial years. The French
government has undertaken to provide teaching staff for this purpose.
During negotiations the Moroccan government submitted evidence that satis-
factory arrangements for teacher supply have been made and gave assurances
that a long-term local staff development plan will be submitted to the
Association before October 31, 1972.
5.13      The project would provide the academic and communal facilities,
500 boarding places and staff housing for three teachers/supervisors, and
a caretaker for each of the six institutions.
5.14      The need for the relatively high number of boarding places at the
Higher Teacher Training College and the six Regional Colleges derives from
the nature of these institutions. The Higher Teacher Training College will
be a national institution enrolling students who come from all parts of the
country and virtually all of whom have had boarding facilities during pre-
ceding degree courses at the University. Absence of such facilities during
the last year of professional training would be detrimental to the success
of the institution. The catchment areas of the Regional Colleges are
smaller but because of their specialized curricula the colleges would still
require boarding facilities for the 70% of the student body expected to
originate from distant parts of the country. All institutions would also
be used for short re-training courses for teachers from all parts of the
country. Such courses are difficult to organize without boarding facili-
ties; these would be austere and would consist of rooms for eight students
each with an area of only 6 m2 per student. The provision of staff housing
is limited to accommodation for a director, caretaker and supervisory
teaching staff at each institution.
Secondary Education (scientific and technical)
5.15      As a first step towards improvement of science teaching in
secondary schools (para. 4.07), the project would provide a science block,
consisting of six laboratories in each of six existing lycees, where absence
of adequate facilities has prevented the introduction of science sections.
Total enrollment of these schools would be 9,100 students, of whom 3,700
would be in the second cycle. The new accommodation would enable some 1,300
students to enroll in the courses and would produce about 400 science gra-
duates annually. For a number of years, the schools will have to rely on
the continued service of expatriate science teachers, but will ultimately
be staffed with teachers trained at the new E.N.S.
5.16      Technical Secondary Schools.  The project would include
additional equipment for ten existing technical secondary schools in
which the present courses leading to technicians' diplomas will be
replaced by a higher course leading to a "baccalaureat en mathematiques
et techniques". The new course will be introduced in October 1971 and
the first graduates will be available in 1974. The proposed curriculum
is satisfactory (Annex 16) and with French bilateral aid there should be



- 15 -
no considerable staffing problems. The new course will call for additional
workshop and laboratory equipment. Assurances that satisfactory arrange-
ments for the recruitment of teachers will be made, were obtained during
negotiations.
5.17      The ten project schools are well located in important centers
and will have a combined output of some 450 students per annum of whom
250 can be expected to gain the baccalaureat and to enter institutions
of higher education either in Morocco or, pending the development of
schools for the training of production engineers and higher level techni-
cians, in France. It is estimated that of those who fail to gain the
baccalaureat, approximately equal numbers will repeat the final year of
the course or will enter industry at an intermediate level.
5.18      Commercial Secondary Schools.  The project would include thirteen
existing commercial secondary schools in which the present courses leading
to technicians' diplomas in business management and accountancy would be
replaced by a baccalaureat in economics. This change is similar to that of
the technical secondary schools and much of what is said in para. 5.16 also
applies to this case. There is need to replace certain existing equipment
and to provide modern office equipment.
5.19      These thirteen project schools would have a combined output of
approximately 1,200 students per annum of whom some 700 could be expected
to obtain the baccalaureat and to continue their studies at a higher level.
Opportunities for such continued studies are provided in the University
schools of economics and social sciences, the Ecole Marocaine d'Administra-
tion, the Institute of Statistics and Economics, and in France.
Vocational Training Centers
5.20      The proposed project would finance the construction and equipping
of two vocational training centers. A center for the building trades would
be located at Casablanca on the same site as the existing centers for the
training of vocational instructors and of skilled workers for the engineer-
ing trades. The available site offers opportunity for expansion should
this be needed. The center, the only one of its kind so far planned, is
well placed to meet the demand for plumbers, masons, and carpenters in the
rapidly developing coastal strip from Kenitra to Safi. The output of 105
trainees per year, many of whom would be recruited from unemployed building
workers having no knowledge of modern construction techniques, should be
rapidly absorbed into the industry.
5.21      The second institution would be a vocational trainip£ center for
the engineering trades and would be located at Kenitra, a rapidly growing
industrial center. A satisfactory site has been selected and will be ac-
quired before January 31, 1972. The output of 93 trainees per year should
be rapidly absorbed into industry as electrical and mechanical maintenance
workers, Diesel, motor repair, and sheet-metal workers, and lathe operators.



- 16 -
5.22      The curricula of the two institutions (Annex 16) are acceptable.
In addition to a director and a chief instructor, each center would require
seven instructors who would be trained in the vocational instructor train-
ing center at Casablanca.  The proposed project would provide for construc-
tion and equipment together with staff housing for the director and care-
taker of each center.
Agricultural Education and TraininU
5.23      Department of Veterinary Medicine.  The project would provide for
the extension of the existing Institute of Agronomy "Ilassan II" at Rabat to
include a department of veterinary medicine. At present, the country is
dependent upon expatriate staff or upon training abroad; the new department,
with an initial output of 25 veterinarlans per year, would meet part of the
need for 230-300 veterinarians to be trained between 1970 and 1980. Most
of them would be employed in the 120 veterinary districts, in each of which
the government plans to station three veterinarians for food hygiene, diag-
nosis disease control. Some will take up private practice near large cities
and prosperous livestock areas.
5.24      Establishment of the new department in the Institute of Agronomy
would ensure maximum usage of coimmon facilities.  The first two years of
the six-year course would be taken in common with other students attending
the Institute.  Satisfactory curricula have been prepared (Annex 17).  There
is an adequate supply of students to meet the proposed entry of 30 students
per year. A teaching staff of 16 professors and lecturers would be needed,
a majority of whom would necessarily be recruited from France and other
francophone countries. French cooperation would be avallable but in view
of thie relative scarcity in some of the disciplines, difficulties could
arise and an early recruitment campaign is necessary. During negotiations
the government informed IDA that Ïts attempt to obtain assistance from
Belgium and Canada lias been successful and gave an assurance that satis-
factory arrangements for the staffing of the new department will be made
before October 31, 1972.
5.25      The project would provide academic and clinical buildings and
equipnient for the new departmnent.
5.26      Royal School of Forest,y.  The project would provide facilities
for a new two-year course for tie training of field agents and would in-
crease the outpuit of the existing forestry school from 25 (field assistants)
to 65 per year, of whom 40 would be field agents.  Recruitment for the new
course would be after completion of three years of general secondary educa-
tion. The proposed curriculum is acceptable and the necessary staff would
be recruited from among serving field off icers in the Departement des Eaux
et Forets. As these officers already have service accommodation, it is
necessary that similar staff housing should be included in the project if
recruitment is to be successful. In addition to teaching accommodation and
equipment, the project would include dormitory accommodation for the 80
students (who are recruited from all parts of the country and for whom no
other adequate boarding facilities are available) and housing for seven
teaching staff and a caretaker.



- 17 -
Technical Assistance
5.27      For efficient implementation of the project and to train Moroccan
staff in project management, the government needs technical assistance (see
para. 1.01). A competent project architect, experienced in school design
should be assigned for a period of three years and a specialist in educa-
tional equipment procurement for two years. In addition, an architect ex-
perienced in school maintenance would be required for two periods of six
months each to assist the government in establishing proper maintenance
procedures.
5.28      It is expected that technical assistance, required to carry out the
preinvestment study of higher education referred to in para. 4.20 above, will
be obtained from UNDP.  The government informed IDA during the negotiations
that a formal request for this assistance has been submitted to UNDP; indi-
cations are a favorable response from UNDP is likely.
Cost of the Project
5.29      The total cost of the project is estimated at DH67.6 million or
US$13.5 million equivalent (Annex 18) the details of which are as follows:
Dirham (millions)    US$  (millions)    %  of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Total
1. Institute of Pedagogy          0.63   1.26   1.89  0.13   0.25   0.38    2.8
2. Higher Teacher Tr. College   1.42   1.46   2.88  0.28   0.29   0.57    4.2
3. Regional Teacher Tr.
Colleges                      17.03  13.43  30.46  3.40   2.69   6.09   45.1
4. Secondary Schools
- science                      1.49   2.35   3.84  0.30   0.47   0.77    5.7
- industrial                   0.30   5.58   5.88  0.06   1.12   1.18    8.7
- commercial                   0.06   1.21   1.27  0.01   0.24   0.25    1.8
5. Vocational Training            1.02   2.08   3.10  0.20   0.42   0.62    4.6
6. Dept. Veterinarv Medicine    1.13   1.62   2.75  0.23   0.32   0.55    4.1
7. Royal Forestry School          0.59   0.71   1.30  0.12   0.14   0.26    1.9
8. Technical Assistance           0.18   0.72   0.90  0.04   0.14   0.18    1.3
Contingencies                  6.97   6.37  13.34  1.40   1.27   2.67   19.8
Total Project Cost          30.82  36.79  67.61  6.16   7.36  13.52  100.0
5.30      The estinmated costs by types of accommodation, equipment, services,
etc. are as follows:



- 18 -
Dirham (millions)    US$  (millions)    %  of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total  Total
1. Construction
Academic and Communal          9.99   5.36  15.35  1.99   1.08   3.07   22.7
Boarding                       7.21   3.89  11.10  1.44   0.78   2.22   16.4
Staff Housing                  1.11   0.60   1.71  0.22   0.12   0.34    2.5
Site Development               2.21   1.19   3.40  0.44   0.24   0.68    5.0
Professional Services          2.21   0.95   3.16  0.44   0.19   0.63    4.7
Sub-Total             22.73  11.99  34.72  4.53   2.41   6.94   51.3
2. Furniture                      0.15   2.80   2.95  0.03   0.56   0.59    4.4
3. Equipment                      0.79  14.91  15.70  0.16   2.98   3.14   23.2
Sub-Total                    0.94  17.71  18.65  0.19   3.54   3.73   27.6
4. Technical Assistance
a) Project Unit                0.15   0.60   0.75  0.03   0.12   0.15    1.1
b) Maintenance Section         0.03   0.12   0.15  0.01   0.02   0.03    0.2
Sub-Total              0.18   0.72   0.90  0.04   0.14   0.18    1.3
5. Contingencies                  6.97   6.37  13.34  1.40   1.27   2.67   19.8
GRAND TOTAI,          30.82  36.79  67.61  6.16   7.36  13.52  100.0
5.31      The cost estimates for school buildings in the proposed project
are based on contracts for the final phase of the first IDA project and on
information obtained from public and private enterprises.  The estimated cost
at Rabat-Casablanca prices of December, 1970, is US$ 66 equivalent per m2
gross area for school buildings and US$ 46 equivalent per m2 gross area for
farm buildings and annexes. These costs are low when compared with the cost
of similar institutions elsewhere. A local cost adjustment of 25% of tlhe
basic prices has been made ofr other regions due to Ihigh transportation
costs and the lack of local skilled labor.  Site development costs vary
beLween 10-12% of tlhe buildiag costs, dependtng an site conditions.
5.32      The cost of the project would include a contingency allowance for
unforeseen factors, identical in the case of foreign and local currency costs,
equal to 10% of thie estimated costs for buildings, site development and pro-
fessional services (Annex 19). Based on the average annual increase in
recent years, the estimated unit costs are expected to increase by 5-6% p.a.
and the project cost, therefore, would also include a price increase allow-
ance, identical for foreign and local currency expenditures, equal to 20%
for building, site development and professional services, and 15% for fur-
niture, equipment and technical assistance (Annex 19). Thus, the total con-
tingency allowances amount to 24.6% of the total project cost excluding con-
tingency (6.4% for unforeseen factors, 18.2% for price increases).



- 19 -
5.33      The foreign exchange component of US$ 7.4 million, representing
about 55% of the total project cost, has been calculated as follows:  (i)
site development and buildings: 35%; (il) professional services: 30%;(iii)
furniture and equipment: 95%; and (iv) technical assistance: 80%.
5.34      Furniture and equipment estimates were reviewed for all schools.
Reasonable bulk costs for these categories of goods have been established
and included in the cost of each sehool. Detailed lists with iteinized costs
would be compiled during design stages and presented for the IDA approval
before procurement. The total estimated costs are on a par with those
in other projects (Annex 20).
Implementation and Disbursenient
g    5.35       The project unit, which was established to supervise the implemen-
tation of the first IDA eclucation project, has not been adequately staffed
and this has been one of the causes of the delays in execution and disburse-
ments (para. 1.01). Before negotiations of the second project, however, the
government has appointed full-time staff to the positions of deputy project
director, project architect, equipment procurement officer, and accountant,
and has improved and accelerated disbursements under the first project. To
supervise effectively the execution of both the first and the greater part
of the second project, this project unit bas been reconstituted and enlarged
with the appointment of the following additional full-time staff: an archi-
tect, a specialist in equipment procurement and an accountant, together with
adequate supporting staff and other facilities. Since the government is
likely to need technical assistance to fill one of the positions of architect
and of equipment specialist each, with more experienced staff the proposed
lending would include US$ 90.000 to provide one architect for three years,
and US$ 60.000 to provide one specialist in equipment procurement for two
years. The French Government has expresse(d willingness to recruit these spe-
cialists. After completion of the first project, the number of full-time
staff could be reduced again to its original level.  To supervise the execu-
tion of those parts of the project for wliich the Ministries of Labor and
Agriculture are responsible (vocational training and agricultural/veterinary
training respectively), these minlstries will each appoint a permanent
official, wlio will be responsible for the imnpleîermtation of these project
Items and will be assisted by qualified and experienced arcllitects, equipment
specialists and accountanits.  Tlielr work will be coordinate(l with that of
the project unit In the Ministry of Education by an officia] in the Prime
Minister's office.
5.36      Professional Services.  The implementation of the project would
require emnployment of professional manpower beyond present government re-
sources. A firm of architects and engineers, acceptable to the Association,
would therefore be needed for design work and the supervision of construction.
5.37      Site Acquisition.  Suitable sites have been selected for most of
the schools, and no difficulty is foreseen in selecting the remaining sites.
Assurances have been obtained that adequate land for all schools will be
acquired and legal title will be received before January 31, 1972.



- 20 -
5.38      Procurement.  All contracts for the supply of furniture and equip-
ment and for construction of schools would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding. The number of local general contractors is
adequate to carry out construction work under the project.  It is likely
that most construction contracts, if not all, will be won by local contrac-
tors. The present practice of the government to award construction of a
single item to a number of specialized contractors (such as electrical works
in a school to a separate contractor), which was followed in the execution
of the first project, is unsatisfactory and leads to a proliferation of many
small contracts, inadequate supervision, poor quality control, and excessive
work for tlhe project unit. Consequently, tihis practice should be abandoned
and comprehensive bids should be prepared for each institution, including all
specialized works; wherever possible, bids should, moreover, be combined in
economic packages.  Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions.
5.39      Procedures for the pre-qualification of general contractors and
government registration of interested suppliers and manufacturers of furni-
ture and equipment would be subject to IDA approval. Local furniture manu-
facturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. land
costs of conipeting imports.  Tlhe existing rates of protection are above this
limnit. In view of the considerable protection, the local furniture industry
is not competitive; it is therefore likely that furniture contracts would be
awarded to foreign suppliers.
5.40      Maintenance.  School maintenance is inadequate at present.  Assur-
ances were obtained that the project schools will be properly maintained and
thiat, before October 31, 1972, a special section for maintenance will be es-
tablished within the Ministry of Education; this section would initiate and
implement adequate maintenance procedures.  To improve maintenance for schools
in tlie first and the proposed second projects, tie proposed lending would
include teclinical assistance of US$ 30,000 to provide one architect for two
periods of six nionths each to establish and organize the maintenance section
and to prepare a maintenance manual.
5.41      Disbursements.  IDA would disburse or reimburse:  (i) the cost of
furniture and equipment, (ii) 45% of the cost of civil works, technical
assistance and professional services.  The latter percentage would be ad-
justed as necessary to disburse US$ 8.5 million equivalent or 63% of the
actual project cost wliicliever is lower. The project would be carried out
in about four and a half years (Annexes 21 and 22).  Construction would be
completed in about three years. Undisbursed funds would be available for
cancellation.
5.42      To avoid the delays of disbursements which occurred in the case of
the first IDA project, the government is now establishing more effective pro-
cedures for the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications to IDA.
An official in the Ministry of Finance has been assigned to streamline and
accelerate the approval of contract awards, payments and withdrawal applica-
tions for the first and second project. A timetable for the withdrawal of



- 21 -
the remaining part of the first credit lias been establIslied: a stiiillik- 1 Imle-
table will be drawn up for the new credit.  Togethier witli the st rongthi< ihig
of the project unit (para. 5.35) these measures are expected to result in
speedier disbursements.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RlJCOMIENI)ATI ON
6.01      Before the negotiations of the proposed second credit, the govern-
ment took a number of measures which would promise more efficient implementa-
tion of both the first and second projects and speedier withdrawals from the
IDA credits. These measures lncluded the strengthening of the project unit
through the appointment of full-time staff to key positions in the unit
(para. 5.35), more frequent supervision of the construction works by the
project architects, and introduction of new procedures for the submlssion
of withdrawal requests outlined in para. 5.42. In addition, the considerable
backlog in withdrawal requests was substantially reduced so that total dis-
bursements of the IDA Credit No. 79 MOR now stand at nearly 60%.
6.02      During the negotiations satisfactory assurances were obtained on
the following matters which are directly related to the successful imple-
mentation of the project:
(i)  further strengthening of the project unit in the Ministry of
Education and appointment of permanent officials in the Minis-
tries of Labor and Agriculture and in the Prime Minister's
office (para. 5.35);
(ii) site acquisition and the award of civil works contracts to
general contractors (paras. 5.37 and 5.38);
(iii) school maintenance (para. 5.40);
(iv) recruitment and training of teaching staff for the Regional
Teacher Training Colleges, the Department of Veterinary Medicine
and the technical secondary schools (paras. 5.12, 5.16 and 5.24);
(v)  formal establishment of the National Institute of Pedagogy,
designation of its director and submission of its research,
training and staff development program (para. 5.05).
6.03      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for an IDA Credit of
US$ 8.5 million to the Kingdom of Morocco, repayable over a 50-year period,
including a 10-year grace period.






APPENDIX 1
Page 1
The Education System
The education system provides for five years of primary education
followed by seven years of secondary education divided into first and second
cycles of four and three years duration, respectively. Higher education is
largely restricted to teacher-trainin7 and univeràitv studies with little
or no provision at intermediate levels. The administration and general
structure of the svstem is shown in Charts 1 and 2 and enrollments at the
several levels in the attached pyramid and tables 1-3.
Primary Education
Following a period of rapid growth from 1956 to 1964, when the
enrollment trebled, the last five years have been relatively static with
an overall increase of less than 10%. Some 54% of school-age children are
in attendance, in the proportion of three boys to one girl. Public Schools
account for 95% of the total enrollment. As shown in the following table
"trepeater" and "drop-out" rates (1967-68) are high and reflect adversely on
the efficiency of the system . Contributory factors are to be found in the
lack of facilities in the rural areas where 6% only of the schools have a
full five-year program, and the poor quality of some of the teaching person-
nel, 1 in 3 of whom have had no professional training.
Repeaters and drop-outs per 1000 students in each year
lst yr.    2nd yr.    3rd yr.    4th yr.    5th yr.
Repeaters             255         220         264        305         505
Drop-outs             121          42          75         66
The primary teaching service is fully Moroccanized and instruction
is given in Arabic.
General Secondary Education
The first cycle of four year's duration is common to all pupils in
secondary education and leads to the award of a certificate of secondary
education (C.E.S.). Succeseful students may proceed to the second cycle of
three years duration where options are available in the arts, mathematics,
the experimental sciences, and economics each leading to the baccalaureat.
Further options in industrial and commercial education and in primary teacher
training lead to appropriate diplomas but account for only 14% of the total
second-cycle enrollment (Table I).



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
Drop-out rates are extremely high ranging from some 35% in the
first cycle to approximately 40% in the second cycle. Repeater rates are
also high and give an average of 6.18 years and 4.40 years for completion of
the first and second cycles, respectively. The corresponding pass rates are
31% and 36%. The poor performance of the secondary schools may be attributed
to poor groundwork in the primary school (especially in respect of the change
from Arabic to French as the medium of Instruction) and to the poor quality
of teaching.
In some 25 schools provision is made at the upper level for the
study of industrial and commercial sub-ects leading to the award of the
D.T.M. (diplome de technicien marocain). The award, unlike the baccalaureat,
is not recognized for university entrance nor is it generally recognized by
industry and commerce.  To remedy this position a majority of the courses
are to be up-graded to the standard of a baccalaureat giving admission to
higher courses of study at professional and near-professional levels.
Certain other courses approximate more closely to craft training and are
likely to be transferred to the Ministry of Labor vocational training centers.
Agricultural secondary education is separately administered under
the Ministry of Agriculture. Pilot one-year courses have been introduced
for the training of field assistants (upper level) and field agents (lower
level). It is expected that the courses will be extended to two years with
annual outptits of 300 and 250, respectively.
Vocational Training
The Ministry of Labor is resnonsible for industrial and commercial
training of a more practical character (80% practical, 20% theoretical)
given in 8 centers. The courses are normallv of one year's duration but
selected trainees may be enrolled for advanced courses extending over a
further year.  The centers also provide training courses for men already
employed but wishing to improve their slcills. The entry requirements
vary according to the trade or craft to be taught. Some 1,000 trainees
pass through the centers each year in the proportion of four on basic
training to one on advanced training courses. 80% of the trainees success-
fully complete the courses. Instructors for the centers and industry
receive training in a two-vear course at Casablanca.
A number of other ministries including public works, health, and
commerce, offer specialist courses extending over periods of from one to
three year's duration.
Teacher Training
Primarv school teachers are trained in 17 regional training insti-
tutes with an enrollment, wholly residential, of about 1,600: many of the
institutes are small and grouping would be beneficial. The present course
recruits after four years of secondary education and provides a one year
course followed by one year of supervised teaching practice. To produce a
better qualified teacher it is now proposed to recruit at the end of the



Al`l`l~N1 NIX I
fifth year of secondary education and to extend the course to two years to
be followed by one year of supervised teaching practice as at present.
Many of the existing teacher trainers are lacking in academic qualifications
and in experience of modern teacher-training techniques.
Lower cycle secondary school teachers have recelved their train-
ing in the Ecole Normale Superieure. The course has heen of two year's
duration followed by one year of supervised teaching practice. Recruitment
has been from the seventh year of secondary education. Present proposals
provide for this level of training to be undertaken in six regional
teacher-training colleges each having an enrollment of 720 trainees of
whom 520 would be in full-timte attendance and the remainder in teaching
practice with some 10 hours per week of part-time attendanèe at the college.
The present system has shown two major weaknesses: (i) in the large numbers
who hold bursaries but attend university courses and appear only for examina-
tion purposes; and (ii) in the minute output of mathematics and science
teachers as contrasted with the large numbers of art's subiects for many
of whom there are few opportunities for appointment.
Under the new proposals the Ecole Normal]e Superieure will be
primarily concerned with training teachers for the upper level of secondary
education. It will recruit some 300 university graduates per year for a
one-year course in pedagogy. The present temporary accomodation will be
replaced by new construction at either Casablanca or Rabat; educationally,
the latter location would seem preferable.
There is need to co-ordinate the work of the several teacher-training
institutes and to conduct research into curricula and teaching techniques
best suited to the particular needs of Morocco.  Responsibility for these
activities will rest with the proposed National Institute of Pedagogy
which would organize and undertake seminars and pilot courses and would
be equipped to design and produce proto-type teaching equipment. The
Institute would be located at Rabat in order to ensure close cooperation
with the University.
Higher Education
The IJniversity Hassan Il consists of a number of semi-autonomous
schools located in Rabat, Casablanca, and Fez. It has a total enrollment
of more than 10,Ofl* students, a preponderant proportion being in "letters"
(39%) or "law" (41%). The courses are from 4 to 7 years duration and,
subject to faculty requi,rements, are open to all students holding the
baccalaureat awarded at the end of secondary education.
The University Quaraouiyine at Fez, with an enrollment of 860
students, is concerned to teach Arabic literature (31%) and civil and
Koranic law (69%).
*    Excluding teacher-training.



APPENDIX t
Page 4
Research and development engineers (ingenieurs de conception) are
trained at the Mohammadia School of Engineering in a five-year course which
lays stress on the mathematical and physical principles underlying the
practice of engineering. The present enrollment of some 260 students will
give an output of 45 to 50 graduates per year. There is no present pro-
vision for the training of production and maintenance engineers (ingenieurs
d' application) or of engineering assistants (techniciens). The need for
the latter two types is considerably greater than that for the first.
The faculty of medicine offers a six year course preceded by a
propaedeutic year in the faculty of science; the total enrollment is
1160 students. The drop-out rates are particularly high at the end of the
propaedeutic and first professional years and the output is correspondingly
low. The need for additional medical services is hi,gh and the creation of
a second medical school can be fullv justified, but the training should be
modernized and more attention given to the needs of rural communities.
There is need also for increased para-medical training.
Agricultural education at the university level is given in the
Hassan Il Institute of Agronomy,.Rabat, where courses of 4 years duration
are planned to follow two years of propaedeutic studies in the faculty of
science. In 1969-70, professional studies were limited to the first two
years of the four-year course with only 29 students in attendance. At a
lower level, the National Institute of Agriculture at Meknes and the Royal
Forestry School at Sale offer four-year and two-year courses, respectively,
for the training of field engineers and engineering assistants. Recent
proposals involve the addition of a department of veterinary science to the
existing facilities of the Ilassan II Institute of Agronomy. The course
will involve two propaedeutic years of science followed by 4 years of pro-
fessional training. The intended output is 25 graduates per year.
Other institutions providing higher studies include a Moroccan
School of Administration offering four-year courses (enrollment 235), an
Institute of Statistices and Applied Economics offering three-year courses
(enrollment 145), and a School. of Mines offering three-vear courses
(enrollment 53).



MOROCCO
EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
1969 - 70
ENROLLMENT RATE1
POST-SECONDARY    17
482     83
1 6
612     100
1 5        0.9%                                                                                1,153      202
1 4
2,582       497
1 3                                                                           BOYS    6,112                 947    GIRLS
SECONDARY             12 2
2nd CYCLE                                                                                                       10,854           2,807
1:1        4.7%                                                                            8,885           2,597
1                                                                                       15,653             4,642
SECONDARY             9
1sf CYCLE               j                                                                           40,74~8                         12,659
17.1%                                                              43,546                               15,629
7                                                                           46,241                              18,869
6                     ;                                                 49,505                                 20,164
PRIMARY                5                              160,466                                                                                               73,013
4
131,368                                                                               63,853
140,934                                                                                       71,827
2                                   14.4,763                                                                                           7,2
1                     182,94376; 1                                                                                                            96,022   z
200,000            150,000            100,000             50,000                °                50,000             100,000       x
IBRD - 5585(R)
1 ENROLLMENT AS PERCENTAGE 0F RELEVANT AGE GROUP






YzOROCCO: r'mU'LIMFNT BY GUDnE A`:~D C'2OvNGAtinO.RiTY 1"~69-1970
.'ea.r:                2             3             4             5            Total          Gi-rls       of To tal
5°`lbl'C   '6  ^8:J   252,._29     ~~~~~~~~203,881  1Cô6,378    22.2,i84      2.,C2S,020      357,'50        93-S
-tr2te   ' ^'7         c -->        ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~S,$80  8,8L,3  il..?95        5-' ,79O      25,'_66.
o>` e ,?t^2v           2  2   -R  2'2,76i  ' 95,221              233,479  1 ,'n2,810           3°2,336   'vOo. 
~~ e^--:           ~    ~~2  3       4       F4T *tzc           5           6         7           Tota'         G-and      G4 rls       of :otal
?-:b_ c   ,~~~,9 '2   59,,l2^     5 '3 7 6   4Q.,826      226,430       17,',62      9, 2.50    5,703       35, L 15     261,3-15      65,239       v9.9
? _-:ato   -.v27   ~~~~~5'6À  ?    -?29?   li-5v        2' 3?5       _2.833       ?,3122     2,970        8,o35        29,360       11"09        *.n
_0« n  ac,AC,    ~~65, :-,  ?'o: v,1  53,! 07     2L-7,755      20,29'      11,T 82    11,673       L-3,450     ,29°1,205      76948        ICO.<
3. Scneo 7~              bY :  uct  r 7z.e Of Co, recs
Total                                               =Toal      Cr=a
_Firs.'_- ,mie                          .         Second- Cvcle    To-ta'-
-eneral                                                  225,3!45                                           29,131        254 , 476
Te.^  al                                    *           1,^835                                            h28',           7.36s'
gere-a                         21,325                                            ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~               ~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,692  29,017  1
G eh-. ea                                                    _ n'l  21,3 25t
C-rand -ot>1                         247,755                                            43,450        291,205
te b'hich Technical Education       lO562                                                              ,'
_  * 1         S 0. ~~~~or Totai                                                      14t.55          2.6,.



TABLE 2                                     Annex i
Table 2
MOROCCOs  ENROLLffINT IN H6OHER EDUCATION 1969-1970
Year                        1         2        3         4      5       6       Total
Faculty of Arts                      591      343        o0       27       -      _       1,331 1/ W
Faculty of Law                     2,957      543       388      196      15      -       4,099
Faculty of Science                   176       31        42       86       -     12         347 W
Faculty of Medicine                  262      172       162       92      L6     52       1,163 Y
Mohammedia Engineering School         82       71        49       58       -      -         260
Institute of Sociology              148         -         -        -      _      _          118
Sub-total               4,216    1,160       681      459      61    61        7,348
Teacher Training (2nd cycle)
-  Arts                        1,352       688      397       140       -      _      2,577
-  Science                        80        46       21         9              -        156
Sub-total               1,432      734       418      149       -       -      2,733
Teacher Training (lst cycle)
-  Arts                          233       543         -        -      -       -        776
-  Sciences                       95        57         -        -      -       -        152
-  Physical Education             61        34         -        -      -       -          95
-  Drawing                        10         6         -        -       -      -          16
Sub-total                 399      640         -         -      -        -     1,039
Other Sigher Education Programs                            Total University Enrollment  . . . 11,120
-  University Quaraouiyine (Arts and Religion)                                         859
-  Institute of Statistics and Applied Economics                                       1145 
-  Institute of Administration                                                         234
-  Institute of Agronomy                                                               150
-  School of Agriculture                                                               153
_ Department of Veterinary Medicine                                                     56
-  School of Mines                                                                      53   _
Total Other Higher Education Programs   . . .    1,650
GRAND TOTAL          . .   . .    .  12,770
1/   Includes 330 students in special, preparatory and
ex-Certificate Sections
21   Does not include teacher training
2/   Includes 377 premedical students
Source: Ministry of Education



Annex 1
Table 3 (page 1)
Technical Secondary Education (Second Cycle)
Enrollment 1969-70
A. By tyne of uchool
| 4th year     _              ye3ar    T     C.-        ear                 Total
Ci.   B  1     T        Ci.    B    G    T       Cl.    B    G    T   Ci.         B    Q   T
Industrial    32   988   6   994    27        630   5   635    25    608   4   612    84   2226  15  2411
COmmrcial    39   870  356  1226   36         737  252  989    44    902  312  214   119   2509 920 3429
Agricultural                                                      9    260        260      9    260       260
Hotel           4h   99   28  127    3         67   16   83       3     80    2   82    10    2h6  46  292
App1ied Ar ts   1 iL        9    23    1       18    7   25   . 1       _      3 14 ,t     3     43  19   62
Total     76  1971  399  2370   67    1452  280  1732   82   1861  321 |2182   225   2281 LOO  28h
B.  Enrcllments in industrial secondary schools (1969-70)' by courses
4th yr.          5th yr.         6th yr.      Total
General course                                       883                                           883
Mechanical engineering                                               i348             368           716
Automobile engineering                                                 10               Il           21
Electrical engineering                                25               19               14           58
Sub-total                |   908              576              556      | 2040
Hlorology                                        1     9                                              9
Laboratory techniciana                                24               17               18           59
Printing                                              23                                             23
Public vorks                                                           22               22      |
Refrigeration                                         1h                8                8           30
Textiles                                              ,68 36
Sub-total                |-
Orand Total                  994              635              612         2241



lnnex 1
Table 3 (page 2)
Ci  Enrollments in commercial eecondary achools by courses
Tear               4th              5th             6th                Total
Course
Accounting                                                     508             425
Business administration                      1226              282             600
Secretarial                                                    199             189
Total           1226              989            1214               3429
Di  Enrollments in vocational training centers
Basic                 Up-grading            TotaI
Trade                                    Enroll.    Pass        Enrol.  Paso         Enroll. Ipsos
Basic mechanics                                 485         337                            458      337
Basic electricity                               150         110                            150      110
Basic motor m»chanies                           117          95                            117       95
Sheet-metal vorkers                              87          84                             87       84
Weldera                                          12          il                             12       il
Turnera                                                                 34        30        34       30
Millers                                                                 26        23        26       23
Maintenance mechaniea                                                   36        25        36       25
Motor mechanics                                                         18       16         18       18
Diesel mechanics                                                        23       20         23       20
Agricultural mechanics                                                  il       10         il       10
Maintenance electricians                                                55        50        55       50
Tool mechanic                                                           il       il         il      il
Total           824          637       214       187       1038      82h



MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION ORGANIZATION
Ministere de l' Enseignement                      I    Ministere de l'"sseignement                                                                       Ministere de l'Enseignement
Originelle et des Affaires                                        Primaire                                                                          Superies1,Secondaire, Techniqueet
Culturelles                                                                                                                                     de la Formations des Cadres
Ministre                                                 Ministre                                                                                            Ministre
M,r. Md El Fag$i                                           Lfr. Adou Chiger                                                                                   Mr. Mamoun TaF.iri
Cabinet Direc-eur               |Sus-Secretaire d 'etat                                                                                             Cabinet Directeur       | Bureau d'Ordre
stc.                 |    YMr. Idrissi                                                                                      Mi. Shafik                                          Mr. Dris
Secretaire General                                                                                            eeaire General
| 'r. Ialim                                                                                                       I Mr. Bellarbi
Division des Affaires                     t
Generales et de la
Legisiation
Mr. Seffar
Direcc.ondes Activites                 Division de la                     Direction de l'enseignement          Direction des Activities   Direction des Affaires
Scolaires                       Planification                       Secondaire et Technicue             Universit. et de la            I   Administratirb!
Y.xr. Ghoul                    |  {Mr. Ougacem                           Mr. Chadm;'              !eenerche                         j       Mr. Benjara
L  I  _   Actl   et RechercheMx. Fisi
AXction et.Recherche                | Affaires Etuniantes               Personnel
Ser-ces                                                          | Pedagogique                    i                                        Mr. Najem
L   Ser'v' ces                                                       s   Mr, Ha j i                    ll|_
Enseignement Techniqoe rses Superieures                             Affaires Sociales
Mr. Gerraoui                                                     Mr. Bouzoubaa
Examens                                                           Equipment
Mr. Salhi                                                         Mr. Menjeli
Mr. Drissi Kami






MOROCCO
SYSTEM OF PUBLIC EDUCATION (1970)
PRiMARY EDLICATION                                   SECONDARY EDUCATION                                                   HIGHER EDUCATION
FIRST CYCLE)                      (SECOND CYCLE)
I ?2   3                      1 ,  }       2    3    4                   5    6      7                          1    2    3    4    5    6    7
UTERATURE       BAC                  SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING
ARABIC STUDIES    BAC                             FACULTY OF MEDICINE
CO               BAC                 FACULTY OF SCIENCE  L D.E.S.
ATHEM            BAC                            I DEPT. 0F VETERINARY 
EXPERImENTAL    BAC                       INSTITUTE 0F AGRONOMY
SCIIENCE
EIBIUCATSICi I 1N                P            =                   C. E S                                                            UR
INDUSTRIAL      D.T.                 FORESTRY
CCOM4MERCIAL     D.T.J                  FACULTY 0F ARTS  L D.E.S.
~~~~FGR1                                               T---.E
AGRIC.  AGRIC.     ~         W  ECON.,SOC.SC. L
C.E.P.  - Certifi cte of Prinry Educ=tion
C. E. S.  - Certificate of Secondary Education                     ,           ,     -- - -r
D.T     - Techicion Diplom                                          TEACHER TR&!NlNC                 -T-I%HER TRAINING
BAC     - Bac a laureat                                                (PRI,',RY)    IN
OBS     - Orservation Year
L      - Licence
D. E.S.  - Diplomso of H;gher Studies
STIJD lElS
r~--~ - In Process of Creation
IBRD - 5664






irn~ex ?
SPECIAL FUND PROJECTS IN EDUCATIuN AND VUCATIONAL TRAINING
May 1960 - June 1970
Project Title                                    Amount
Engineering School                          U.S.$ 751,50o
Training Centre for Civil
Aviation and Meteorolog-y                          621h,200
Institute for Instructor
Training for Leather and
Textile Workers                                     934,8oo
Secondary School Teacher
Training Institute, Rabat                         1,682,800
National Instructor and
Foreman Training Institute                        1,076,100
Institute of B,tatistics
and Applied Economies, Rabat                      J,062,800
Forestry Education and Training                   1,051,700
National Leather and Textile
Institute, Fes (Phase Il)                          608,400
Training Centre for Uffice
*   mployees, Casablanca                            688,600
Source:  UNDP - resident representative, Rabat.






e~~~~
?UTLE      _ 2! ,ITTY3 ,zrS  ). T`,T-L & ZDUCTOMU
C(..li1j.onn  of DPi)
196h     1965      1966      1967      1968      1969      1970      1971
éXD.P.A.                            12,h1S0    13,130   12,760   13,590   15,?60   15,760   (16,552)   n.a.
2cver,nent budg-et
recu1rrent                     2,1h3      2,098    2 ,1A    2,219    2,735    2,771          2,933    3,125
__  struPert                    797         775      8.3       8éLr    1,130    1,16L       1,133        307
tov-l                          2,9h3      2, 87W    2,970    3,083    3,35        3,935      4,o66    L,432
3:d~et - Yînistrr of Education
reclrrent                         L,35       Uh2      491       1o0       553       594         625       687
.«vestrent                        39         40        33       19         78       65          45        86
total                             h7h        h82       42h       i99       631      659         670       773
Education as a 5 of total budget
recurrerr.                        20.3       21.1      22.7     21.6       20.2     21.h        21.3      22.0
ir.vestrent                        h.9        5.3       4.i       2.2       4.9       5.6        4.0       6.6
tctal                             16.1       20.3      17.6      16.2      16.3     16.7        16.5      17.4
:ducation. as < of GrDP                 3.8        3.7       L.L       4.1       4.1       h.î       ( h.1 )   n.a.
Soarce:  Pînistry of Education, Secretariat-General of P1ann-r.
Secretariat-- nerai of Planr2-ng.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-



AtflED' h
DOMESTIC SOURCES 0F FUNIDS FUR LEDUCATION, 1970
Central Govt.                           DII million        $ million
Ministry of Education:
Recurrent                      625               125
Investment                      45                 9
670               134
Other Ministries:
Recurrent                       30                 6
Investment                       8                 1.6
38~~~~-
Private Sector 2!
Private schools                 50                10
Private costs in public
schools                        27                î
77                1
Grand total:                   785               157
=    ).7 of G.D.P.
1/ Rough estimates.
Sources:  Data of Ministry of Education and
mission estimates.



ANNX 5
Page 1
EDUCATIUNAL RECURRENT EXPEIDI TURES BY CATEGCIRY
in millions of DH
1968        1969        1970          1971
Higher 3ducation             58.0  11   64.o   il   68.5  li    83.2  12
Secondary Education         205.0  37  222.7   37  244.2   39   270.9  39
Primary Education           272.0  49  288.1   48  290.8  47   312.4   46
Cultural Affairs &                                                      1/
Original education          18.0    3   19.7     3   21.3    3    20.0-   3
Total                  553.0  100 594.5  100  624.8   lo0  686.5  loo
Percentage of Inerease
68/69       69/70       70/71
Higher education            10.3          6.9        21.0
Secondary education          8.1          9.6        10.5
Primary                      5.4          0.9         7.2
1/ Estimate.
Source:  Ministry of Education.



5
IEducational] ;ecurrent Expenditu1res by T"rpe and Category
in millions of DI!
1968            1969           1970            1971
Cultuiral Affairs îR                                  %               %
Original eduica Lion
personnel                 13.0    72      15.7    80    17.0    80
material                   5.0    28        2.3    12      2.8    13
social (incl. sclio-
larship)           -               1.6     8      1.5      7
miscellanè eoIIs                             .1     -       -       -      -
total                     iU7O   100      19.7   100    21.3   100   (20-0)
Higher ediicat,ion
pursonnel                 33.5    58      34.4    5h       6.0    52
material                   2.5      4      2.6      4      2.6     4
social                    22.0    38      26.8    42    29.9    44
miscellarieolls             -       -        .2
total                     5-0   10T0      61b0   Io    6,.5   100    83.2
Secondary education
General & technical
personnel                182.0    89    199.8    90   217.9    89
material                   8.0      4      7.6      3      7.5     3
social                    13.0      6     14.6      7    18.2      7
miscellaneous              2.0      1        .7     -       .6      -
total                    205.0   100    222.7   100                    2 0   2c70.9
Primary
personnel                253.0    93    271.6    94   274.1    94
malberial                  7.2      3       j.0     2      6.9     2
social                    1].a     4       9.3      3      9.8     3
miscellaneouis                      -        2      -       -       -
total                    272.0   100    288       100   290.8   1(0-Ô    7



ANNIFX f
Page ]
lRecurrent Cost Per Stu.dent Year - 197(
IJ}I      $
Primary education
Secondary 1st cycle                               830       1-66
school                   785
boardlng                   45
Secondary 2nd cycle                              1680       336
school                  1190
boarding            .     490
Secondary technical                              2180       4r,
general costs           1680
technical material.       500
fligher education 1/
Mohammadia, engineering                    15(1(0     3000
Literary Faculty                            1560       312
Law Faculty                                 1470       29)4
Science Faculty                       720(-8200    1440-164i
M4edical Faculty                       7800-8400 2/ 1560-1680
EcrnLe Jnçrmal,e Superieuire
1st cycle                                  8f3lO    1782
school                   290
student salarv          5620
?nd  cycl  3/                               7760    155,-
schoo].                  110
student salary          6650
if7~--lol.arships not i nc lded.
2/ hos,-,ital costs excliuded.
3/  to this to be added unLt cot.ls f'or tlhe f'a(tltyr in which the student s1udie-.
b'/ includes boarding ofr about 20% of' tie stuldents.



ANUE-X 6
Page3 ?
Agriculltural. e(ducati on
Inst.itute Agronomique Hassan l.l:                  n.a.
7co' e Nalionale d Ar:tcuiture,
ieknes (i.ngenieurs d'anlicaUlon)                5-07o       3140
-instruction                        fl700
boar(i ng                            42°()
schiol arships                      5200
farm (def i ci.t                      -(0
El louizia school of agriculture                     9ht00      1881
(adjoints techniques)
instruc-ti on                        3 "0<
boarding                             3t)30o
scholarsli.ps                         9(0
farm deficit                         1700
Vocational training, Min. of Labour                 2550  '      51
Instructor tra:ining, Min. of Lqholr         51        0 l  )
school                               2550
scholarship                          2880
Source:  Mission calcul.atLons, based on various data.



ANN51X 7
GOVERRIPMENT INVESTIIENT BUDGET FOR EDUCATION
in DH
1969                1970       %       1971.
Primary education             18,000,000   24    22,620,000   46   16,320,000   18
Secondary education
Genera].                 10,558,000           12,752,000         31,655,000
Technical education           -                   -               1,172,000
IBRD project             31,875,000            3,10 0,000            -
42 4T3,000(  57    15e852,000   32   32,827,000   36
Hligher education
Modern education          1,392,000            5,485,000          9,338,000
Technical education         600,000              615,000            705,000
Campus                        _                   -              20,548,990
E.N.S.                    1,500,000               -                 200,000
Seismic prevention          300,000              150,000             26,000
C.P.}1.                       -                   -               6,oO,ooo
3,792,000    5      6,250,000   13   36,817,990   40
Original education              1.000,000    1        100,000   -         1I00,000    -
Sub-total. Min. of Educ. 65,225,000   87    44,822,000   91   86,064,990   94
Agricultural education          7,693,000   10      2,513,410    5    2,746,00(    3
Vocational training             2,050,000    3      1,890,000    4    2,698,500    3
Grand total              74,968,000   100   49,225,410   100  91,509,490   1.00
Source: Loi des P'inances, 1970 and
Provi.sional investment budget 1971.



PPSTirTED PROURREI,T EXPEN`DI¶UPR ON LDUCATION 1970-1982
'in r'illions of Dirians, at constant 1970 prices)
ïrimary                                     Non-educa-      Total         Total'    Education
Primrar7  Teacher   Secondary education    Post    tional de-   education    Recurrent          as % of
Ye~.r  Education Training  lst cycle 2nd cycle  Secondary  Dartmerts   expenditure  Govt.Budget total budget
1970    283        12        190        63          68          30           647        2,933          22.0
1971    298       13         197        83          80          32           703        3,125          22.14
1972    313        13        206        97          87          34           749        3,281          22.8
1973    330       14         218      110           94          36           802        3,14h5         23.2
1974    3L7       14         231      122          102          38           854        3,617          23.6
1975    365       15         247      130          111          41           909        3,841          23.6
1976    382       16         266      137          118          43          962         14,079         23.5
1977    403        16        287       146         125          46        1,023         4,332          23.6
1978    122        17        311       156         133          49         1,088        4,601          23.6
1979    444        18        336       169         141          52         1,160         l4,886        23.7
1980    464        19        364       185         149          56        1,237         5,189          23.8
1981    493        20        399       201         157          60         1,330        5,511          2h.1
1982    516        21        432       219         166          64        1, 148        5.,853         21.2
Source: Mission's calculation
*                                      e



t ~   ~                                                .               *     e
MOROCCO: Secondar~y School Teachers of Academic Subjects by Qualifications - 1969/70
(Modern Public Schools)
Q U A L I F I C A T I O N                F I R S T    C Y C L E                           S E C O N D    C Y C L E
Moroccans       Expatriate          Total          Moroccans    EaTotal
Numberumber   J                   Number    %    Number    %   Number        %   Number      %
1. Complete Higher Education
(Professor 2nd cycle)            151     4.4     265       5.3     416     5.o    420   79.5   1,171    88.7   1,591   86.1
2. Partial Higher Education
(Professor lst cycle)         1,097    32.2      592      11.8   1,689    20.0      80   15.2       67     5.1     147    8.0
3. Complete Secondary Education
(Repe'titeur Instituteur
Bacheliers)    605    17.8   3,830      76.1   4,435    52.5      21    4.0       80     6.1      101    5.4
4. Partial Secondary E&ucation
(Repétiteur Instituteur
Non-Bacheliers)   1,555    45.6    3h4        6.8   1,899    22.5        7    1.3        2     0.1       9    0.5
GRAND TOTAL            3,408   100.0   5,031    100.0  8,439   100.0    528  100.0   1,320   100.0   1,848 100.0
(40.4)*          (59.6)*                        (28.6)*          (71.4)*
Total Fully Qualified Teachers 1,248    36.6       857     17.1   2,105    25.0    420   79.5   1,171   88.7    1,591   86.1
(1 and 2 for First c7cle and
Cdtegory 1 for Second cycle)
* Percentage in brackets gives proportion of M roccan and expatriate teachers for each cycle
%o



MOROCCOs  Teachers Supply and Demand Gerneral Secondary Education (Second Cycle)
Teachers Needed For
_Su____     Deficits4r SurnT   e,
Enrollments                  Replacement of                                                    Per
Year     in (00's)    Expansion        Expatriates      Upgrading    Withdrawal    Total                Year.   Cutraulative
1970       38.0           458             -                                          4 _   58  130     -328         -328
1971       45.5 4.41                      -                _              _441                 L70*     +29         -299
1972       50.9           318             _                8             15           341      560*    +219          -80
1973       54.8           229             -               10             15           254      .610    +356         +276
1974       57.4           153.           160              lo             15                   .jQO       -38        +233
1975       59.0            94            1-45             10             15           264      300       +36        +274
1976       60.3            76            145              10             15           246      300       +5h        +-328
1977       62.5           129            1-45             10             15           299      300        +1        +329
1978       65.1           153            145              10             15           323      300       -23        +306
1979       68.5           200            145              10             15           370      300       -70        +236
1980       71.7           188             145             10             15           358      300       -58        +178
1981       75.5           224             145             10             15           39L'     300       _914       +84
2.982      79.5           235             1)45            10             15           h05      300      -105        -2i
TOTAL            2898            1320             108           165          L491      4470
* Incluriing 150 and 120 teachers expected to graduate in 1970 and 1971 respectivoly £rom the ncw one-year
pos t-graduate course startcd in Octobor, 1970.
*e



* OROCC0: Teachers Supply and Demand in General Secondary Education (First Cycle)
*              ~~~~Teachers Néeded For
SuPPly    Deficits/or 3ri,'t-
Enrollments                 Replacement of                                                   Per
Year     in (000's)    Extansion     Expatriates 2../  Uiradinç   Withdraval    Total               Yeir    Cunmulative
1970      212.3           30                                                      30       5LO      +510      +51G
1971      2i3.1          I.O             -               -            -           40       275      +235      +7U5
1972      217.0          195            100              -            -          295        -       -295      +h5O
1973      221.5          925            100             100          100          525      h25   - _00        +350
19?h      227.7          310            100             100         IC'o          610      LOO      -21.0    +.h0
1975      236.7          450             oolO 100                    -00          750      800       +0       +-
1976      2Li4.6         395            5°0100                       100         1095      1200     +105      4295
1977      255.5          545           5s0              100          ioo         1245      1200      -L5      +2rO
1978      266.5          550            500             100          100         1250      1200      -50      +200
1979      277.5          550            500             100          100         1250      1200      -50      +50
1980      289.2          590            5C0             100          100         1290      1200      -9o       +60
1903.     300.0          54            550             100          100         1290      1200      -90        -30
1982      313.3          665            550             100          100    -      15      1200     -215
TOTAL             5,085          h,ooo ?/       2,000         1,000       11,085    lo,Sho
1/  Surplus o! second cycle teachors graduating from excisting ENS included in the total: 330 
/ Roplacvnont or unqualified expatriate teaohirj çrdly (bI.1. Replacement of 5,0o0  expotrlâte teoh.ra by 2.982
in ;îccorq.'<nin wilt,), 0,virnnrnt policy wolild eAnd tc nuccongi.vely h1gh deficit.9 from 197)t onwvrds)



ANNEX 12
MOROCCO: Curriculum of Hiehor Teacher Trainip_ Colle£e
Subjects.                                              l-y.er course
Philosophy of Education                                                      2
History of Education                                                         2
Psychology-Pedagogy                                                          h
Special Methods                                                              2
Audio Visual Technique                                                       2
Class Observation                                                            2
Critique and Discussion                                                      3
Lesson Plan                                                                  2
Statistics                                                                   1
Practice Teaching                                                           13
Total periods/week                        33
1) Training in subject matter alrerdy coempl.eted in university.
2)  Physical Education Givoin ruLside regular olkes periods.



e e
MOROCCO:  Enrollnent and Output of Teacher Training Colleges (Academic Subjects Cnly)
F I R S T   C Y C L E *                          S E C C N D   C Y C L E *
Present               Projected                  Present                Projected
Subject                          Enrollment  Output   Enrollment  Output          Enrollment  Output   Enroliment  Output
Arabie                                                    1,080        300                                   60          60
French                                                    1,080        300                                   60         60
Modern Languages                                                                                              O          h 40  O
History/Geography                                           360        100                                   ho          40
Sub-total (Arts)              776        490      2,520         700           2,577       122        200        200
Mathematics                                               1,260        350                                    50         50
Natural Science                                             360        100                                    25         25
Physics/Chemistry                                           180         50                                   25          25
Sub-total (Math and           152         50      1,800        500              156         8       100         100
Sciences)
GRAND TOTAL              928        5hO       4,320      1,200           2,733       130         300        300
*    Projected figures are for 1974 onwards



ANNEX 14
MOROCCO:  Curricula  of R(gional Teacher Training ColJeges
Subjects                                   lot year    2nd year        3rd year
Specialized Training                                       16           9              _
Second Language                                             4           3              _
General Psychology-Pedagogy                                 2           2              _
Special Methods                                   |                     6              6
Audio Visual                                -1                          1 
Class Observation and Discussions                           2           2              4
;esson Plan                                                _2 
Statistics                                                  1           1              _
Drawoing                                                    1           1
Music                                                       1           1              _
Practice Teaching                                                                     10
Physical Education                                          2           2              _
Total periods/week              30          30             20



Morocco: E-rollmient and Output o. First - Cycle
Secondary '2eacher Traîning Colleges (G-rmeral Secondary Teachers only)
Sezcr Acns       A :3|  FR-f iISC-GO  XATr A:ICS                                     NA'2W    SCIS'0B  ?rYSi CS-C{EMTSTRY
_cca; ors ..      . 5 vT      '2   3   T   il   2   3    T 1   2   3   T   1l   2  3    T   1   2   3      21   3            2 0L   Ou??T/r
17D  6   53 100 ' 120 10363 3           -   -   -  j70  60  50 180                                               720      2C1
2.:>:>.res   :,70  60  50 13v   70  60  50  '130  70  60 50 180  170  60  50 10-720                                                     209
,.: ._ i?.«z,a   ,7J  69) 51,3  7.  60  50  130  .,0  60 50 180  |7  6n  50130720                                                      2^
-~~     -~'3 - 7                                   70 ,,-  ui    o    -?  60   £  83                
c_  5G  '83  ;-   -                         j73  63  530183    _______         _ 63_50_ _i__6,          720     2v3
9     '.Q3 77 6D 50  6O                          70  63  50 180  170  6\  50 70                          I720        2,
6.Tangier  70  60  50 bvn,1      -  -   -    -  1-   _             _  _   !L0120100360   -   -   -   -    07  60  50  180      720      209
-   20 360 300 1C30v;2O 360 300 lOS! O  120 100 36Oi9  420 350 -260 O 120 100                   60  50  _80  |   "Do       f



ANNMX 16
Corricula ln Technical Secondary Schools
Type cf School                    Industriel                              Comercial
SubJect                        Year           4      5        6                           5           6
Arabic language and literature                 4      2        2                 9         3           2
French                                         4      2        2                 6         3           2
Additional language                            4      2        2                 6         4           4
History and geography                          2      1        1                 4         3            3
Mathem tica (and statiatics)                    8     7        8                 4         4           4
Matural science                                6
Physaic  and chemistry                         8      5        6                 4
Construction technology                               6        5
Fabrication tedhnolcgy                                1        1
Workshop                                              7        6
Market products                                                                            i           l
Economics                                                                                  2           2
Law                                                                                        2           2
Accounting                                                                                 8           O
Office practice                                                                            2           2
Physical education                             2      2        2                 2         2
Total periods/w ek             38    3S       35                35         34      j     _
OCrriculum in Vocational Training Contera
Subject                                          Heurs/week
Calculations
Drawing                                                2
Tochnology                                             2
Factory law, hygiene, and safety                        1
Workehop                                               34
Total hours/week                           ho



CURRICULA OF DEPARTYIENT OF VEr ERINARY MEDICINE
LECTURE. PERIODS                   PRAr(TICAL WORK SESSIONS
_USJT S3rd year  hth year  5th year  6th year                       ear  hth year  5th year  6th year
Pharoiacy-toxicolOgY              75                                     :  25
;'edical physics and biochemistry 75                                     : 25
.Anatomr of donestic animals      40         35                          : 50           4Q0
Physioloe-theraapeutics           25         50                          : 15           35
Tâstology-pathological anatomy   30          25       20                    15                    35
Meat and food hygiene                                 25         30                               25         50
FarasitologY and parasitical                          25                 :              15        15
Semeiology and 2edical nathology
of lhorses and carnivores                           30         h5                    10
Semeiology and mxedical pathology
of livestock and poult.rJ                           35         40
Surgical pathology                                    45          30     :                         10        10
Reproductive pathology                                35          40                               20        20
General pathology-microbiOlO-              -                      25     *              35
imnilogy;2
Infectious diseases,sanitary le-                                                                              25
gislation                                            35          ho                                         2
Anim.il production and rural                                                25                                        L
econ3mice                       40          3                                          10
Foodsturf, pla.,nt life and
nut,rit_ on.                    35         35                              15          30
Total    32t)        280      250        250         170        180        1u5       IO5






'.               .      <   .                                                                      
4     1      X~~E         E                                      AX XHEX    
+                                                                   F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
M   X        S      t   _          _                _          tD                      _               _       _  ;        R 






e                                                  e
MOROCCO - Contingencies Allowances (in US$ millions)
Professional       Technical
Sit2 Developmeit    uildin                                 z mFurniture  Equipment  Services  Assistance  Sub-Total
Tcn1oIr:e~gn  ' ôail  Foel    Lod-al    reg           on Local  Forei            gn L-oal  Foregign Local     Forein   Total.
Contingercies Percentages
(a)  Urforeseen Factcre          l0%      10%     10%      10%          Nil              Nil         10%    10%            Nil
(b)  Price Inmrease              20%      20%      20%     20%      15%     15%    15%      15%      20%    20%      15%       15%                         24.6%
Total (a + b)         30%     30%      30%     30%      15%     15%    15%      15%      30%    30%      15%       15%
v. Total Project Cos. Before
Contl:nfcies -.442   0.238    3,661    1.972  0,030  0560   0.157   2.982   0.442   0.189  0.036  0.144    4.768  6.085                         10i853
3   Conrigeneies_kmount.s L                
(a)  Unforeseen 1actors       0o044   0.024    0.366    0.197  0.000  0.000   0.000   0.000   0.044- 0.020  0.000  0.000    0.454  o.24i                    6,695
(b`)  Erice Increase           o.o88   o.o48    0.732    0.394  0.o4  o.o84   0.023   0.447   0.088   0.038  0.005  0.022    0.940  1.033                   1,973
SBib To.al of4 0o132   08072    1.098    0.591  0.00.o84   0.023   0.hh7   0.132  o0o58  0.005  0.022    1.39h  1.274                                  2.663
Contini nci es
4.  Ttal  rot JeItCoet          0.574   0.310    4.759    2.563  0.034  0.644   0.180   3.429   0.574   0.247  0.041  0.166    6.162  7.359                13.521
Ine  dg Cot9 igex7ies
Jvne 8, 1971.



MOROCCO - COMPARATIVE CAPITAL COSTS IN NEW PROJTECzTi.2i-
(in UX. S. Do-Lr-3)
Cost pvr Student/Baarder Place  r      _e Lîivn  Unit
Gross area Site
per trainee develp Build  Furni   Equip                 Similar Bank Group-
Type of Facilities              place (n2)  ment  ing    ture    ment    Total           Finarced Institutions
1. Academic and Communal Facilities
Highor Teacher Training College           7.4       60      503     59       386    1008    975 (Spain), 984 (Iran)
Regional Teacher Training Colleges        5.2       52     443      52       114     662    851 (Iran), 933 (Guatemala)
Vocational Training Centers              15.5      102    1061      50      16141    28514   2440 (Ivory Coast), 2676 (Iran)
2. B.arding Facilities
Higher Teacher Training College           8.2       64      540     64       -        668   1589 (Iran)
Regional Teacher Training Colleges        8.2       80      674     80       -       834   1486 (Iran)
3. Staff Housing
Higher Teacher Training College                    890    7425      -        -      8315
Regional Teacher Training Colleges                1113    9280      -        -     10393   9367 (Iran), 9582 (Chile)
Vocational Training Centers                        660    6600      -        -      7260
(1)Professional services and contingencies are not included.



MOROCCO -PROjECT IMPLEM4ENTATIC>N SCHfEDULiE
First Year           Second Year               Third Year             Fourth Year          Fifth Year-
_____________  __._    1   2    3                                                  W=                                10   il   12  1r13     1~ e2    3        1 7 1 6    7  "  9 0 i
1 .  Construction, Furniture and Equipment;
AMl new institutions and extensions
i. Civil Worlks                                   vvv 
r)esign and contracts                                   ,,,  ;;. **-   =        ",   ,,,
SiLte devetlopment                                                             '                           cc cccc
Construction                                                                   ccc ccC ec     ccc   ccc    ccc   ccc  ccc
Pr.ofessionai services                                  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ....  ...  ...  ... ..I          ...  ...  ...  ...  ...
ii. Furniture                                                      P  PPP  PP*                MMe=    ===IM   1fMl   i     III  III                   +
iiî.  Equipment                                              PPPPPPPPP PP*   *=|=MM[                        PM  |                                  III  Tl
2.  F,uipment  Iniy
industrial and Commercial Secondary Schools                    PPP  PPP  PPP  PP*  '*=  |                   M           III
3.  lechnic -] Assistance                                                                                                       |
Î.  Project Unit                                       °°
trchitect                                       vvv    TTT  TTT  TTTT                           T    TTT   TTT        cTTT  TTT
Soecialist                                      vvv  .> TTT  TTT  TTT  TTTT  TTT  ITT           TTT TTT
ii.  Mai.ntenance Section                         vvv                 TTT    IT                         TT"  T .
cerend
,.  XAL   Survey of sites                          MitA   Manufac turinrg  and ruception
vlvv   Selection and ampointiment of consultants               ,s    Sitr- d6-elopment                            III   Iastal1ation
~;;    Desi n                                                 ccc   Cons truction                                 +      End of g.antee periodi
a-eu   Preparati on of biî  parkapes                           ...   Professional Servicea                        TETF   Technicl.'i assis_tqnc,
Tender ard contract awardinp (for                       PPP   Preparation of master list,s
Nat. inst. of Pedagogy in 6th quarter
see para 6.O3(iv) (b))



Annex 22
MOROCCO - ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$ millions)
Accumulated               Undisbursed
Quarter         Disbursements              Disbursements               Balance
A3nounts      %          Axounts                  Amounts
i                         -                        -     --1000            8.50
2           0.8          0.07        0.8          0.07          99.2       8.h3
3           o.6          0.05        1.h          0.12          98.6       8.38
h           1.1          0.09        2.5          0.21          97.5       8.29
5           0.9          0.08         3.h         0.29          96.6       8.21
6           3.1          0.26        6.5          0.55          93.5       7.95
7           5.1          0.43       11.6          0.98          88.4       7.52
8          16.2          1.38       27.8          2.36          72.2       6.1h
9           6.2          0.53       34.0          2.89          66.o       5.61
10           6.9          0.59       4o.9          3.48          59.1       5.02
il          19.5          1.66       60.5          5.14          39.5       3.36
12          18.1          1.54       78.6          6.68          21.h       1.82
13           3.8          0.32       82.3          7.00          17.7       1.50
14           3.5          0.30       85.9          7.30          14.1       1.20
15           3.5          0.30       89.h          7.60          10.6       0.90
16           3.5          0.30       93.0          7.90           7.0       0.60
17           3.5          0.30       96.5          8.20           3.5       0.30
18           3.5          0.30      100.0          8.50           0.0       0.00
* Beginning from Effective Date.



CODE NO            MA   OF NST/TU/ON                        LOC4 T2ON21-4
a  Stco 1: TEACHER TRAINING O23-13                                                                                                                                                          M E    D         T         A' A    I    FA  IV
Noti,ool in[titote df P.dogory in-oodng nootor
lot prodoot.o, d     prototype torthing nrot.r,aI, (noor)  Robot                                                                                                                                     5  E  A
1 2    tt:ghr T.oof.r Tooinng Cdlog. (nrnr)              Robot
1.3                         CIlooooI Ten6retA Troin og CoJleima (Ônso_
13-1
;.3-2                                                .
13-3                                               Ke.nitro                                                                              A.
13-4                                               Fm                                                                             ou  e
13-.3                                              Morrolorh                                                                              d      bzze
1.3-6                                              Tong rA'  a
*  Seto 2: SECONDARY EDUCATION-                                                                                                      2 r       2l2nd9Tfnool
2.1   Scitific blocks for i  ist-tt2 SKeno- S d.                                    O     Tozo  y                                                                                                 2 1                                             2 9
2.1-1                                              Tor.                                                                 41
2.1-2                                              F..
21-3                                               Morrolt.ko3
2-4                                               Tein2o1n
2 1-3                                              Azero2o
2.1 -6                                              2ot_ onoodi
22    Gen-rot ot-ontr,oI oor   n cood cycle fr tnn                                                    2.3-3   Cosoblono
tis9ling Secodory Tnchnicoo Soo  (eqorOnt only)1-1                                                                                                          zrou
221I                                               Agodro
2.2-2 ond 2 2-3                                    Cosoblooco
2.2-4                                              Khlnibgo                                                             Ben Sottot  BnAhmed
2.2-5                                              Soti
2.2-6                                              mk.Itn
2 2 7                                                                                   /\ida
2.2-8                                              Robot                                     AIf                         ou,ibg            B.
2 2-10                                             Kïmorh 9    2 2-4S/\I/ ATocXft ietBut _
2.2-10                                               «.e
2.3   Gnroi onmenrcl ow i .nod cyl. fo,r 13  idig                         (So                                                                                              K_ o  m         '                                    B/
S.-OOd orr, T    colScols (eqopeno-t ml Iy)
.3-1                                               Ago&          O         So.~bVono
2.3-2,2.3-3 ond 2.3-4                              Cosablooo
2.3-5                                              Sf
2 3-6                                              Mtms                 /odeuib
2.3-7 o-d 2.3-8Rot
2.3-9               o_;â
2.3-10                                               .
2 3-I1                                             Morrotkbch
2.3-12                                             TongerEnotr 
23-12                                             Toto-..2.1
à  Stor 3_ VOCATIONAL TRAIMNtG
3.1   Vocatiorol Trairng Contro (no' 
3 1-1                                              Cosablonco
3.1-2                                              Kmonrr
* W.oo 4:~ AGRICULTURAL EDUCATIO4
4.1   Dootot oE Vfotrioy Medicine otth* otistino                (                22-1.
Ag--nk  Iritolte Homsont   Il .o.ron)              Robot                  2 3-1
4.2  R*«W  Fmotntry School $cht"oniron                    So.         Aaod
G  ; 4 ^   r `    KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
-'-st-'-Railways                                                          i
/-.-Inîematonao boutndories
N                              A F R I CA
/50      `O          D          *        L 50  100  W
MILES
PARALLEL 27'40' N                                               ~~~~~~~~NOTE:  ONLY THE BORDERS WHICH WERE THE SUBJECI OF AN  INTERNATIONAL
- ___  ___ -  -         ---               ---                --PARALLEL  27°40' N  -Tdc,u                                 TREATY ARE INDICATER . THE BORDER BETWEEN FIGULG AND TINI)OUF
]S OMITTED.
SPANISH  SAHARA
JUNE  1971                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD  3350R



