CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 266 MOR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 18, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 266 MOR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 18, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       August 18, 197 1,  between the KINGDOM     OF
MOROCCO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand
dollars ($8,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree. no withdrawal shall


﻿4
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultant architects and experts) required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 1 5
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1981 and ending March 15, 2021, each installment
to and including the installment payable on March 15, 1991 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound educational, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿5
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the planning and supervision
of the construction included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultant
architects acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain and operate in its Ministry of Higher, Secondary and Technical
Education and Teacher Training a Project Unit with such responsibilities and powers
as are specified in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, shall make appropriate
arrangements in its Ministry of Labor and Employment and its Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform as specified in Part B of such Schedule and shall
ensure the assignment to such Unit and Ministries at all times of qualified and
experienced personnel.
(b)   The officials to be designated pursuant to Parts B and C of such
Schedule 4 shall be appointed before October 31, 1971.
(c)   The Borrower shall provide the Project Unit and the personnel of the
other Ministries mentioned above chaiged with carrying out parts of the Project
with such facilities and other resources as sh,l be required for the efficient
operation thereof.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part I of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contracts, construction, work and
procurement schedules, and master lists of equipment and furniture required for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire before January 31, 1972 all such land or rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the institutions included in the Project and shall furnish to
the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land or rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, before October 31, 1971, establish the
National Institute of Pedagogy included in the Project, designate its Director and
furnish to the Association a copy of the statutes of said Institute.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the institutions and facilities included
in the Project to be operated in conformity with sound administrative and
educational policies and practices and with due regard to economy, to be provided
with qualified instructors and administrators in adequate numbers and to be
adequately maintained at all times in accordance with sound technical practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, before October 31, 1972: (i) establish
in its Ministry of Higher, Secondary and Technical Education and Teacher Training
a special administrative section for the maintenance of its school buildings at
secondary and post-secondary levels; and (ii) establish adequate maintenance


﻿7
procedures for such schools, including procedures for preventive maintenance, with
the afsistance of the architect referred to in Part II (C) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall (a) prior to the award of any contract
for the construction of the National Institute of Pedagogy included in the Project,
and before October 31, 1972, submit to the Association for comment an outline
of the research, training and staff development programs of such Institute; and
(b) before October 31, 1972, (i) submit to the Association for comment a
long-term program for meeting the staff requirements of the six Regional Teacher
Training Colleges included in the Project and providing for satisfactory external
aid arrangements to fill temporary shortages of staff in such Colleges; and (ii) obtain
any necessary staff for the Department of Veterinary Medicine of the Institute
of Agronomy Hassan II and for the ten Technical Secondary Schools included
in Part I (E) of the Project and provide for satisfactory external aid arrangements
to fill temporary shortages of staff in such Department.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance   of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and with regard to the administration and operations, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿8
concerning the administration and operations, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by the Borrower of its other obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due


﻿9
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The date November 18, 1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:
Minist6re Finances
Rabat
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through   their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Abdessadeq El Mezouari El Glaoui
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿t                                 11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I.    Furniture and equipment       4,000,000      100% of foreign ex-
penditures, or if
locally procured,
100% of local expendi-
tures net of taxes
II.   Services                                     45% of total expendi-
tures
(a)   Civil works              3,550,000
(b)   Consultan                350,000
architects
(c)   Services of one ar-       100,000
chitect and one
specialist in equip-
ment, for the Proj-
ect Unit, and of the
architect required
for Part II (C) of the
Project
III.  Unallocated                     500,000
TOTAL         8,500,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods purchased in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reall3cated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿13
5.    Notwithstanding the percentage set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists generally in the construction, equipping and furnishing
of educational institutions and facilities with a view to expanding and improving
specific sections of the vocational, secondary and higher educational systems of
the Borrower.
The Project includes specifically the following Parts:
Part I.
Construction, extension, equipment and furnishing of educational institutions
or facilities as follows:
(A)   construction, equipment and furnishing of a new National Institute
of Pedagogy, which will be located at Rabat; which will be responsible for (1)
research into the structure, content and techniques of teaching, with particular
attention to the causes of student failures, (2) coordination of training of primary
and secondary school teachers, (3) advanced courses for teachers and supervisors,
and (4) experimentation with new teaching equipment, production of prototype
material and printing of manuals; and which will have a teaching material production
center;
(B)   construction, equipment and furnishing of a new Higher Teacher
Training College, which will be located at Rabat; which will provide one-year
post-graduate courses for teacher-trainees for second cycle secondary schools, and
which, as from 1975, will train approximately 300 senior secondary teachers per
year;
(C)   construction, equipment and furnishing of six new Regional Teacher
Training Colleges, which will be located at Oujda, Meknes, Kenitra, Fes, Marrakech
and Tangiers; which will have an enrollment of approximately 720 students each;
and which will train a total of approximately 1,200 teachers per year;
(D)   six laboratories, including equipment and furnishing, for the extension
of six existing Senior Secondary Schools, which are located as follows:
(1)   Lyc6e Ali Ben Barr                       Taza
(2)   Lycee Moulay Slimane                     Fes


﻿15
(3)   Lyc6e Mohammed V                       Marrakech
(4)   Lyc6e Jaber Ibn Hayan                  Tetouan
(5)   Lyc6e Tarik Ibn Ziad                   Azrou
(6)   Coll*ge Mixte (Ibn Yassin)             Mohammedia
which, as extended, will have a total of approximately 1,300 science students at
upper-secondary level and which will allow a total of approximately 400 students
to become science graduates annually;
(E)   additional workshop, laboratory equipment and furnishing for ten
existing Technical Secondary Schools, which are located as follows:
(1)   Lyc6e Youssef Ben Tachfin              Agadir
(2)   Lycde Al Khaourizmy                    Casablanca
(3)   Lyc6e Jaber Ibn Hayan                  Casablanca
(4)   Lyc6e Ibn Yassin                       Khouribga
(5)   Lyc6e Al Idrissi                       Safi
(6)   Lyc6e Moulay Ismail                    Meknes
(7)   Lyc6e Omar Ibn Abdelaziz               Oujda
(8)   Lyc6e Al Laymoune                      Rabat
(9)   Lyc6e Abdelmalek As Sahdi              Kenitra
(10) Lycde Hassan II                         Marrakech
which will introduce an advanced course at the level of the second cycle of
secondary education leading to a baccalaureat en mathematiques et techniques;
and which will complete the education of a total of approximately 450 students
per year, of whom approximately 250 are expected to gain the above-mentioned
baccalaur6at;
(F)   new  equipment and furnishing for thirteen existing Commercial
Secondary Schools, which are located as follows:


﻿16
(1)   Lyc6e Youssef Ben Tachfin              Agadir
(2)   Lyc6e Al Khansa                        Casablanca
(3)   Lyc6e Mohammed V                       Casablanca
(4)   Lyc6e Jaber Ibn Hayan                  Casablanca
(5)   Lyc6e Al Idrissi                       Safi
(6)   Lyc6e Lalla Amina                      Meknes
(7)   Lyc6e Al Laymoune                      Rabat
(8)   Lyc6e Omar Khayam                      Rabat
(9)   Lyc6e Omar Ibn Abdelaziz               Oujda
(10) Lyc6e Moulay Slimane                    Fes
(11) Lyc6e Hassan II                         Marrakech
(12) Lyc6e Ibn Al Khatib                     Tanger
(13) Lyc6e Jaber Ibn Hayan                   Tetouan
which will introduce advanced courses leading to a baccalaur6at in economics; and
which will complete the secondary education of approximately 1,200 students per
year, of whom approximately 700 are expected to gain the baccalaureat;
(G)   construction, equipment and furnishing of two new Vocational
Training Centers:
(1)   a center for the building trades, which will be located at Casablanca
and which will train approximately 105 skilled workers per year;
(2)   a vocational training center for the engineering trades, which will be
located at Kenitra and which will train approximately 93 skilled
workers per year;
(H)   academic and clinical buildings, equipment and furnishing for a new
Department of Veterinary Medicine in the existing Institute of Agronomy Hassan
II at Rabat, which will train approximately 25 veterinarians per year;


﻿17
(I)   academic and communal facilities, equipment and furnishing for an
extension of the existing Royal School of Forestry, located at Sale, which will
train approximately 40 agricultural field agents per year, in addition to the present
training of approximately 25 agricultural field assistants per year.
Part II:
The employment of the following qualified and experienced experts:
(A)   two architects employed in the Project Unit;
(B)   two specialists in educational equipment procurement employed in the
Project Unit;
(C)   an architect experienced in school maintenance employed for two
periods of six months each, the costs of whose services are to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit under Category II (c) of Schedule 1 and whose
appointment is subject to the approval of the Association.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contractors shall be general contractors and       shall be prequalified in
accordance with a prequalification procedure satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for its approval
the following:
(a)   list of all contracts for civil works to be awarded in carrying out the
Project, indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast timetable
for obtaining it. The contracts will be grouped in such a way as to encourage
international competitive bidding. Such timetable and grouping will take into
account the requirements in respect of the National Institute of Pedagogy set forth
in Section 4.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(b)   description of the proposed advertising coverage to ensure international
competitive bidding, draft bid notices, prequalification questionnaires and
description of the prequalification procedure;
(c)   the   consultant  architects' report and    recommendation    on   the
prequalification data submitted and the proposed selected tender list;
(d)   draft bidding documents for each group including draft contracts. The
invitations to bid for educational facilities included in the Project will, inter alia,
specify that the bidder will submit offers in respect of each institution in the
group or of all of them, together with related facilities, or any combination thereof,
the bids therefor to be opened simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option
of awarding to one contractor one contract in respect of all the educational
institutions and facilities, or separate contracts in respect of the various educational
institutions and facilities to different contractors in any combination. The Borrower
shall make such modifications in such draft bidding documents and draft contracts
as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower will, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended
award, and will furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the


﻿19
recommendation for the award of the consultant architects. The Association will
promptly inform the Borrower if it reasonably determines that the intended award
is inconsistent with the provisions of the Guidelines referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement or with the Development Credit Agreement.
4.    Promptly after a contract has been awarded, and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect thereof,
a certified conformed copy of the contract will be sent to the Association. A
certified conformed copy of any subsequent contract amendment will also be sent
to the Association.
5.    The Borrower will request the Association's concurrence with any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of 5%, together with an explanation
of the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for its approval
the following:
(a)   lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the Project,
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price of each item.
Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with the educational
institution in question and the space for which they are required. The items to
be purchased will be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be
consistent with sound technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such items will be for not less than $50,000 equivalent. Amendments
to such lists will also be submitted to the Association for approval; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
a description of the method to be used for inviting bids on an international basis.
2.    Procurement will be limited to those items of equipment and furniture
specified in the approved lists mentioned in subparagraph B.1 (a) above and
identified in contract documents by the same indices, codes and numbers as in
such lists.
3.    For evaluating any competing bids received for imported and for locally
manufactured furniture, for the purposes of comparison, the following method will
be used:
(a)   The term   "Local Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association)


﻿20
in the territories of the Borrower; any bid offering other goods shall be deemed
a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The comparison bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)        inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the comparison bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of such goods net of any taxes on their
importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if
imported into the territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (c) (i) above, whichever shall be lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
4.    If (a) Foreign and Local Bids have been so compared, or (b) a contract
is proposed to be awarded to a bidder other than the lowest evaluated bidder
(taking into account, if applicable, the foregoing paragraph B.3), or (c) a proposed
award involves a difference in price of 10% or more from the original estimate
as shown pursuant to paragraph B.1 (a) above, the Borrower will, after the bids
have been evaluated and before making the award, send to the Association for
its prompt approval, a summary and analysis thereof and a brief justification of
the Borrower's proposal for the award.
5.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been awarded
and before submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds in respect of such contract, the following will be sent to the Association
(if not already furnished under paragraph B.4 above):
(a)   certificate signed by the Project Director or his deputy, or by the
permanent official of the appropriate Ministry, as the case may be, that the goods
i


﻿21
covered by the contract are in accordance with the quantities and specifications
in the lists approved by the Association;
(b)   lists of the bids received;
(c)   brief analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's decision
in making the award; and
(d)   certified conformed copy of the contract.
6.    After a contract has been      awarded, the Borrower shall request the
Association's prior approval for any proposed change in a contract involving a price
increase of 10% of the original contract price, together with an explanation of
the proposed change.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Project Administration
A.    Parts I (A) through (F) and II of the Project
1.   The Project Unit which was created to carry out the project described in
the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association
dated October 11, 1965, shall be reconstituted under the authority of a Project
Director with the assistance of the following full-time staff:
(a)   a Deputy Director;
(b)   two architects; one to be employed for a period of three years, the
cost thereof to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Category II
(c) of the table set forth in Schedule 1, and his appointment to be subject to
the approval of the Association;
(c)   two specialists in educational equipment procurement; one to be
employed for a period of two years, the cost thereof to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit under such Category II (c), and his appointment to be
subject to the approval of the Association;
(d)   two accountants; and
(e)   the necessary clerical and secretarial staff.
2.    The Project Unit will be directly responsible to     the Director for
Administrative Affairs of the Ministry of Higher, Secondary and Technical
Education and Teacher Training for the carrying out and supervision of all parts
of the Project, in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement, except Parts I (G), (H) and (1).
3.    Generally speaking, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Project Unit shall have such responsibilities and powers as
shall be necessary or incidental to the proper execution and supervision of the
parts of the Project for which it is responsible.
4.    After completion of the project described in the Development Credit
Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated October 11, 1965,
the Borrower may, after due consultation with the Association, reduce the number


﻿23
of full-time staff working in the Project Unit to the level necessary to complete
the present Project.
5.    The Project Unit will be responsible, inter alia, specifically for the following:
(a)   arrangements for the selection and employment of the consultant
architects and establishment of their terms of reference;
(b)   administration of agreements with such consultant architects;
(c)   preparation, with    the  help  of the consultant architects, of a
comprehensive implementation schedule based on the Critical Path Method or other
satisfactory method, for setting down the planned timetable of coordinated
activities and responsibilities on which will be based the carrying out of all aspects
of the parts of the Project for which it is responsible;
(d)   arrangements for the review and approval by appropriate authorities
of the reports, specifications and other material submitted to the Borrower by
the consultant architects;
(e)   advice and assistance to the consultant architects, with the help of
other specialists as needed, as to the educational needs of the institutions included
in the Project;
(f)   the preparation of (i) lists of all equipment and furniture required
for such educational institutions, (ii) specifications, and (iii) estimated unit and
total prices of each item:
(g)   necessary arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts relating
to the parts of the Project for which it is responsible;
(h)   keeping of accounts and preparation of interim evaluation and financial
statements;
(i)   preparation of applications for withdrawals from the Credit Account
for submission to the Association through the Ministry of Finance; and
(j)   preparation of quarterly progress reports.
B.    Parts I (G), (H) and (I) of the Project
The functions described under A. 5 above shall be ensured in respect of
the carrying out of Part I (G) and of Parts I (H) and (I) by the Ministry of Labor


﻿24
and Employment and by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform,
respectively. For the purpose, there shall be designated in each Ministry a permanent
official who shall be directly responsible for the supervision of the execution of
such Parts of the Project, and who shall be assisted by qualified and experienced
architects, experts for educational equipment and accountants.
C.    Coordination
For the purposes of ensuring effective coordination in the carrying out of
the Project, the Borrower shall designate an official who will be responsible directly
to the Prime Minister. Such official shall, inter alia, assure the establishment of
an overall plan for the execution of the Project, the keeping of an overall Project
account, and the preparation of quarterly reports on the progress of the entire
Project.


