Report No. 282a-UNI                                                          FILE  COpy
Appraisal of
Second Cocoa Project
Nigeria
May 21, 1974
Agriculture Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Naira (N)
US$ 1      =     N 0.66
Ni       =   US$ 1.52
N 1      =   Kobo (K) 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights
used in this report are metric. The
unit of area used is the acre.
1 metric (m) ton   =   0.98 long ton
1 long ton              1.016 m ton
1 long ton         =   2,240 lb
1 hectare (ha)     =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 acre (ac)        =   0.405 ha
ABBREVIATIONS
AA           :        Agricultural Assistant
ACC                   Agricultural Credit Corporation
AIIC                  Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation
AMI                   Areas of Mass Infection
ANCE                  Association of Nigerian Cooperative Exports
AO                    Agricultural Officer
AS           :        Agricultural Superintendent
CDU                   Cocoa Development Unit
CFO                   Controller of Field Operations
CFS                   Central Financing Society
CPMS                  Cooperative Produce Marketing Society
CPMU                  Cooperative Produce Marketing Union
CRIN                  Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria
CSA                   Cooperative Supply Association, Limited
DECS                  Draft Expanded Cocoa Scheme
FMANR                 Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMG                   Federal Military Government
LBA                   Licensed Buying Agent
MANR                  Ministry of  Agriculture and Natural Resources
oMD          :        Man-day
MWNCF                 Mid-Western Nigerian Cooperative Federation
a NAB                   Nigerian Agricultural Bank
NIFOR                 Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
NP                    New Planting
NPMC                   Nigerian Produce Marketing Company
PID                   Produce Inspection Division
PMAU                  Project Monitoring and Analysis Unit
RP                    Replanting
SAO                   Senior Agricultural Officer
SL                    Special Laborer
SSVD         :        Swollen Shoot Virus Disease
SWR                   Shadow Wage Rate
TCU          :        Tree Crop Unit
UNDP                  United Nations Development Programme
WNMB                  Western Nigeria Marketing Board
WSFU                  Western State Farmers'Union
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
?age No.
SUMIARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ............................
L.    INTRODUCTION  .......................................1
II.    BACKGROUND ..........................,.,.........                             2
III.    THE COCOA INDUSTRY .................................                          3
A.  Background ...............,                                              3
B.    Producer Prices  ...............................                       6
C.    Institutions  ..................................                       6
IV.   THE PROJECT AREAS  ................................ .                         9
A. Western State                            ...  9
B.    The First Cocoa Project  (764-UNI).11
C. Mid-Western State .11
V. THE PROJECTS .11
A. Description .11
B. Field Development .12
Vl.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANiCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....                 ......     15
A.    Project Costs  .................................                      15
B.    Proposed Financing  ..... .......................                     17
C.    Procurement  ...................................                     19
D.    Disbursement  ..................................                     20
E.    Accounts and Audits  ...........................                     21
VII.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ........................                         21
A.    Organization  ..................................                      21
B.    Credit Arrangements and Terms of Sub-loans                           23
C.    Staffing  ......................................                     25
This report  is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. P.  rh. Grosjean  (Bank), J. Phillips and J. Braudeau  (Consultants)  who
visited Nigeria in January/February 1973, and a follow-up mission consisting
of Messrs. P.A. Courbois and T.M. Kulatilaka (Bank) in August/September 1973.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
VIII.   PRODUCTION. MARKETS, FARMER AND GOVERNMENE BENEFITS      26
A.  Yields and Outputs ............................    26
B.  Markets and Prices ........................,.        26
C.  Farmers Benefits ........................      .    27
.).  Impact of Project on the Governments' Fiscal
Situations ...................            .....    28
IX.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................    29
X.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMiENDATIONS ..                30
ANNEXES
1.  Marketing Boards and Cocoa Marketing
Table 1  -  Structure of the LBA Buying Allowances -
1972-73 Campaign
Table 2  - Nigeria and World Production of Cocoa 1950/51 -
1972/73
Table 3  - Cocoa Export, Value, Average Price and Contrib.ution
to Foreign Exchange Earnings
Table 4   - Western State Marketing Board, Ba)lance Sheets
Table 5  - Western State Marketing Board Appropriatioxi of
Annual Surplus and Producer Reserve Accournt
Table 6   - Western State Marketing Board, Cocoa Trading
Account
Table 7  - Mid-Western State Marketing Board - Balance
Sheet
Table 8  - Mid-Western State Marketing Board - Appropriation
of Annual Trading Surpluses and Produce Reserve
Account
Table 9  - Mid-Western State Marketing Board - Cocoa Trading
Account
2.  Rate of Return Calculation
Table 1  - Yields and Outputs
Table 2  - Price Breakdown from Spot New York to Producer
Price, Allocation of Proceeds and Project Economic
Value of Cocoa
Table 3  - Western State - Economic Rate of Return
-Table 4   - Mid-Western State - Economic Rate of Return
'Table 5   - Economic Rate of Return - Western State Project,
Sensitivity Analysis
",,Table 6  -  Economic Rate of Return - Mid-Western State
Project, Sensitivity Analysis.
Table 7  -  Breakdown of different prices used in sensitivity
analysis.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
3.   Cocoa Marketing Cooperatives and Farmers' Union
Chart  1  -  The Western State Co-Operative Movement
Organization Chart
Chart  2  -  Western State Farmers' Union
Organization Chart
Chart  3  -  Western State, Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives,
Co-operative Societies Division
Organization Chart
Chart  4  -  Mid-Western State Cooperative Societies Division
Organization Chart
Table  1  -  The Association of Nigerian Cooperative Exporters, Ltd.
Ibadan, Basic Data
Table  2  -  Western State Farmers' Union
Summary of Financial Statement
4.   Agricultural Credit Organizations
Table  1  -  Western State, Cooperative Investment and
Trust Society, Ltd.
Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Accounts (1966-1972)
Table  2  -  Western State, Cooperative Investment and Trust
Society, Ltd.
Schedules of Loans and Investment (1966-1972)
Table  3  -  Cooperative Bank of Western Nigeria, Ltd.
Balance Sheets and Profit Appropriation Accounts
Table  4  -  Cooperative Bank of Western Nigeria, Ltd.
Profit and Loss Accounts (1967-1972)
Table  5  -  Mid-Western Nigeria Cooperative,
Central Financing Society, Ltd.
Balance Sheets and P/L Accounts (1968-1972)
5.   Technical Aspects, Project Organization and Implementation
Table  1  -  Western State MANR Seed Gardens
Chart  1  -  Western State Organization Chart
Chart  2  -  Mid-Western State Organization Chart
6.   The Road Construction Programs
Appendix - Details of the Mid-Western State Road Program
7.   Project Program and Detailed Costs
Table  1  -  Total. Project Cost
Table  2  -  Western State Planting Program
Table  3  -  Mid-Western State Planting Program and
Fieldi Organization
Table  4  -  Western and Mid-Western State Planting
- Per Acre Cost
Table  5  -  Western and Mid-Western State New Planting
- Per Acre Cost



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd.)
Table  6  -  Western State - On-farm Costs
Table  7  -  Western State - Buildings and Vehicles
Table  8  -  Western State - Personnel Cost 1974 - 1979
Table  9  -  Western State - Operational Costs
Table 10  -  Mid-Western State - On-farm Costs
Table 11  -  Mid-Western State - Buildings and Vehicles
Table 12  -  Mid-Western State Personnel Costs
Table 13  -  Mid-Western State - Operating Costs
Table 14  -  Western State Road Program
Table 15  -  Western State Road Program
- Equipment Requirements and Costs
Table 16  -  Mid-Western State Road Program
Table 17  -  Mid-Western State Road Program
- Equipment Requirements and Costs
S.   Project Financing
Table  1 -  Western State
- Detailed Financing of Project Costs
Table  2  -  Mid-Western State
- Detailed Financing of Project Costs
Table 3   -  Disbursement of Federal Government loan
Table 4   -  Disbursement schedule of Bank loan
9.  Farmers' Benefits
Table  1  -  Cash Flow to the Farmer, Four Acres of New
Planting Cocoa
\Table  2  -  Cash Flow to the Farmer, Four Acres of Replanted
Cocoa
10.   Project Cash Flows
\Table  1  -  Western State Government Cash Flow
\Table  2  -  Mid-Western State Government Cash Flow
\Table  3  -  Federal Government Cash Flow
MAPS
Map 3006 R. Second Cocoa Project Area (Western State)
Map 10495 Second Cocoa Project Area (Mid-Western State)



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report appraises a project for which a US$ 20.0 million loan
is proposed. It would expand the first IBRD financed 43,500 acres cocoa pro-
ject in the Western State to 105,500 acres and establish 10,000 acres of
cocoa in the Mid-Western State. The first cocoa project, for which the
Federal Military Government (FMG) and the Bank signed a US$ 7.2 million Loan
Agreement (764-UNI) in June 1971, has developed sufficiently well to justify
the Bank supporting its expansion as requested by the Western State and
Federal Governments. The Western State produces about 97% of Nigeria's total
cocoa production which has averaged some 240,000 tons annually in recent
years. In view of the enormous increase in oil exports, cocoa now represents
only 7% of Nigeria's total exports, however in Western State, where an
estimated 1.2 million acres is planted, cocoa remains the mainstay of the
economy. Much of the States' cocoa is old and in future production will
decline if replanting and some new planting does not take place. The
proposed project would have the objectives of the first project: to develop
a balanced program of replanting old and uneconomic cocoa farms and of new
planting on land suitable for cocoa cultivation. In the Mid-Western State,
there are about 42,000 acres. These are quite,young and thus in this State
the project would be concerned with new plantinig alone; mostly in Northern
areas of the State where cocoa is the most rewarding cash crop available
to the farming community.
ii.       The project consists principally of providing loans in cash and in
kind as well as supporting extension services to some 27,000 cocoa farmers.
The loans would be for planting or replanting up to 4 acres of cocoa. Loans
would be made to farmers in the Western State through the Cooperative Trust,
and through the newly formed Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC). In the
Mid-Western State, credit would be distributed through the Central Financing
Society (CFS) of the cooperative movement. Credits to farmers made under
the project would total US$ 10.7 million, US$ 9.3 million in the Western
State and US$ 1.4 million in the Mid-Western State. Project farmers would
be either members of cooperative societies or, in the Western State, of the
Farmers Union. Participants would be required to sell their cocoa to their
cooperative societies or Union branches and from these cocoa sales credit
repayments would be deducted. As in the first cocoa project, farmers would
be provided with training as required.
iii.      Project farmers would receive loans of up to N 96.5 per acre fo:-
repl'iiiLng and 4 91.S per new planting, at 9-1/4,  interest to be repai-j )svr
13 or 12 years. Farmers' loan repayments are expected to average about 307r
of the net return from their new farms and when the loan has been fully
repaid annual income per acre would be around triple the national average.
In the case of replantings debt service would account for about 4rv of the



- ii -
net return and after repayment annual income per acre would be more than
double the national average. The project would generate incremental cocoa
production of about 25,000 tons annually at maturity in 1986 of which almost
4,000 tons would be produced in the Mid-Western State. At a projected world
price of US5 61/lb, Spot New York in 1980, the project would earn some US$
30 million in net foreign exchange in 1986 and subsequent years.
iv.       Project costs are estimated at US$ 40.0 million, USS 32.9 million
for the Western State Project and US$ 7.1 million for Mid-Western State
Project. The proposed loan of US$ 20.0 million would finance 50% of project
costs, covering the foreign exchange component estimated at US$ 10.0 million
(25% of total project costs) and the balance of US$ 10.0 million would cover
33% of the local costs.
v.        Vehicles, tractors, sprayers, road making equipment, tools,
fertilizers and insecticides estimated to cost US$ 6.1 million would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with
IBRD guidelines. Contracts for building, road construction and other
civil works, amounting to about US$ 3.8 million would not be large enough
to attract international interest and would therefore be granted under
local competitive bidding, the rules for which are satisfactory to the
Bank. The major part of project costs would be some US$ 20.1 million for
staff salaries, on-farm hired labor, planting materials and operating cost;
none of which would be suitable for any form of competitive bidding. Nigeria
has no pre!ferential import tariff agreements and competition between foreign
manufacturers on the domestic market is keen.
vi.       In the Western State, the project would be implemented by the
Cocoa Development Unit (CDT) already established within the State Ministry of
Agric:ulture (MANR) to carry out the first cocoa project. In the Mid-West-
t,rn 'Otate, a new Tree Crop Unit (TCU) would be established in MANR to car-
ry  out first the cocoa project and later, smallholder oil palm projects
kappraised) and rubber projects (prepared). The Western State appointed a
Coordinating Committee to oversee the ongoing project and this would auto-
matically assume responsibility for the proposed new project. A similar
committee would be established in the Mid-Western State to coordinate the
work of agencies involved in that State's cocoa project and to advise the
manager of TCU.
The project while making a contribution to Nigeria's foreign
exchange earnings would serve mainly to ensure that an important section of
the farming community retains its source of income which, without the project,
would progressively deteriorate with the aging of the cocoa trees. The
project would also continue to demonstrate an integrated approach to helping
small farmers and would develop institutions by supporting the cooperative



- iii -
movement, and ACC and the Western State Farmers Union. Based on the Bank's
current forecast of cocoa prices the estimated rates of return from invest-
ment in the projects are 25% and 19% in the Western and Mid-Western States
respectively.
viii.     The Bank has decided to limit its financing of projects which
increase the production of commodities with an inelastic demand to cases
where potential borrowers have few if any alternatives. This report shows
that the proposed project would in no way upset the balance between supply
and demand. In fact prospects for cocoa are good and without increased
production prices might increase to a level where substitution for cocoa
products might become attractive and be to the disadvantage of cocoa
growing industry as a whole.
ix.       The project would be suitable for a US$ 20 million Bank lcan, with
a term of 20 years and a grace period of five years.






NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Military Governmennt (FMG) has requested a Bank loan to
help finance cocoa development in its Western and Mid-Western States.
1.02      This report describes two projects, one for each state, which
would assist farmers by providing credit for planting and replanting cocoa.
The projects include the training of extension staff and farmers, the
strengthening of the cooperative movement and of the Western State Farmers'
Union, and the rehabilitation of crop extraction roads in the project areas.
1.03      On June 23, 1971 FMG and the Bank signed a US$ 7.2 million Loan
Agreement (764-UNI) for the planting and replanting of 43,500 acres (17,600
ha) of cocoa in the Western State. At that time, Government expressed disap-
pointment at the project's size in comparison with the Western State's 1.2
million acre cocoa industry, and the project was started in October 1971 on
the understanding that the Bank would consider a second cocoa project if
the results of the first were favorable. In November 1972, a Bank reconnais-
sance mission recommended that the initial project should be expanded to
100,000 acres as soon as possible and that a smaller 10,000 acre project,
prepared by the Mid-Western State in an area contiguous to the Western State
cocoa area should be considered for financing by the Bank at the same time.
Consequently this report appraises a Second phase cocoa project in Western
State and a new project in Mid-Western State.
1.04      This report is basec on a feasibility study 1/ prepared by the
Planning Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR)
of Western State; on a detailed Note 2/ prepared by MANR of Mid-Western
State; and on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. P. Th. Grosjean (Bank), J. Braudeau and J. Phillips (Consultants)
which visited the Western and Mid-Western States in January/February 1973.
Subsequently a follow-up mission consisting of Messrs. P.A. Courbois,
T.M. Kulatilaka and P. Th. Grosjean (Bank) visited Nigeria in September
1973 to review the proposed credit channels. The proposed loan was negotiated
in Lagos In February 1974.
1.05      The proposed project would be the Bank group's third loan for
agricultural development in Nigeria. The first was the Western State Cocoa
Project whose progress to date justifies its expansion and the second is a
livestock project, for which Board presentation is scheduled in ',T-.
In addition, the Bank is Executing Agency for the Nigerian Agricultural Bank
(NAB) Project financed by UNDP, which started in March 1973.
1/   "Draft Expanded Cocoa Scheme" (DECS) by MANR, Ibadan, June 1971, 6 volumes.
*        2/  t"Smallholder Cocoa and Oil Palm Projects" - MANR, Benin.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The 12 state Federal Republic of Nigeria covers about 924,000 sq
kilometers and in 1972 its population was estimated at 71 million. 1/ About
50, of GDP, estimated at US$ 7.5 billion in 1971 is generated in the agri-
cultural sector which employs some 70% of the labor force. In 1972, total
domestic exports amounted to US$ 2.2 billion of which petroleum represented
aonut 30" (US$ 1.8 billion) and agriculture represented 13% (US$ 0.3 billion).
The i-ain agricultural exports are cocoa, groundnuts, groundnut oil and cake
witih cocoa representing 7% of total exports.  Following recent price increases,
tie valoe of petroleum production is expected to at least double in 1974,
perhabs exceeding US$ 5 billion and to increase to around $10 billion by 1980.
Oil palm products used to be important exports, but in view of increasing
domesti. consumption and the neglect and decline of the industry, palm oil
is no longer exported in significant volume and palm kernel exports are
dwindling. By and large Nigeria is self-sufficient in food, except for wheat
which is being used in increasing quantities as bread consumption rises in
Nigeria's expanding urban population. Currently food imports are estimated
at about US$ 2.60 per capita annually with wheat imports costing a total of
about US$ 33 million annually.
2.02      The Western State, with a population of about 10 million people, Il
lies between latitudes 6° and 90 and longitudes 2° and 4°, and comprises
about 78,000 sq kilometers. Within the State there is considerable climatic
variation, rainfall varying from 45 inches (1,125 mm) in the northwestern
savannah zone to over 100 inches (2,500 mm) in the southeastern forest
zone. The forest zone consists of swamp and rain forest, and produces
rubber, cocoa, kola, palm products, citrus, robusta coffee and timber for
local use and export. Food crops are also produced in the forest zone, but
the population is heavily dependent upon food from the savannah zone, which
comprises about 35% of the State. This latter zone is well suited to the
production of arable crops, such as yams, maize, sorghum, rice, tobacco
and cotton and has an important potential for livestock production. Beef
cattle production in the western savannahs is being sponsored under the
proposed Bank-financed livestock project.
2.03      The Mid-Western State lies approximately between longitudes 5° 00
and 60 45 and latitudes 4° 45 and 70 30N, covers some 38,800 sq kilometers
and has a population of 2.5 million. 1/  Bounded to the east by the Niger
River the land is low-lying except for hills in the north, and is mostly
covered with tropical forest and its derivatives. With a seven-month rainy
season rainfall averages 100 inches (2,500 mm) in the coastal area and 60
inches (1,500 mm) in the north. About 80% of the population is engaged in
agriculture. The principal food crops are cassava, yams, maize and rice
and the State's principal export crops are palm products, rubber and cocoa.
The timber industry is also important. The Mid-Western State is one of the
most important petroleum producing States of the Federation.
1/   The results of the November 1973 Census are not yet available.



-3 -
III. THE COCOA INDUSTRY OF NIGERIA
A. Background
3.01      Nigeria is the world's second largest cocoa producer after Ghanat.
In 1971/72, 1/ out of a world production of 1.5 million tons, Ghana produced
440,000 tons, Nigeria 255,000, 2/ and Ivory Coast 220,000. Nigeria's average
production over the period 1967-71 was about 239,000 tons or about 17% of
world production, and of this about 97% was grown in Western State. The
Mid-Western State produced nearly all of the remaining 3% and the small
balance was from the other southern states. With insignificant exceptions
cocoa is produced on smallholdings where yields average about 450 lb of dry
cocoa beans per acre. Yields vary widely, however, due to differences in
management, soils, and climatic conditions. The average individually owned
planting of cocoa is about 3.5 acres, but more than 50% of farmers grow less
than 2.5 acres and own only about 20% of total cocoa acreage; 25% of farmers
have between 2.5 and 5.0 acres and own some 23% of total acreage; and the
remaining 20% of farmers have more than 50% of total acreage.
3.02      From 1946 to 1958 Nigerian cocoa production stagnated at about
100,000 tons annually. Thereafter, production increased steadily reaching
a peak of 294,000 tons in the good growing season of 1964/65, however, this
level was not achieved again until 1970/71, when excellent growing conditions
resulted in a record crop of 303,000 tons. In the intervening years, 1966-1970,
production was much lower averaging about 217,000 tons. The substantial in-
crease in production in the late 1950's and early 1960's stemmed from large
plantings of cocoa made in the 1950's in response to good producer prices,
and the subsequent introduction by Government of an effective pest and disease
control program. Cocoa production and export statistics are at Annex 1.
3.03      Due to substantially lower world cocoa prices in the 1960's than in
the 1950's and low Government controlled producer prices until 1969 (see
para 3.11) there has been no new planting or replanting of cocoa on a major
scale since 1961. Thus, while there is no accurate data available (see para
4.02) it is probable that the productive acreage of Nigerian cocoa has
remained more or less static over the last decade with new plantings and
improved cultural techniques such as pest control barely offsetting losses
resulting from old cocoa being abandoned due to low yields. Government
surveys show that about 900,000 acres of Western State Cocoa trees, nearly
75% of the usually accepted total of 1.2 million acres, are more than 30
years old, and there is extensive visual evidence of large areas of cocoa
that have been abandoned because falling yields have made farms unprofitable.
However, the efficiency of Government cocoa survey work fell off sharply in
the late 1950's and 1960's, especially in the newer less settled eastern
1/   The cocoa year starts with the West African harvest which begins in
September.
2/   Nigera's cocoa production was 236,000 tons in 1972/73 and is estimatei
at 219,000 tons in 1973/74 (see Annex 1, Table 2).



-4-
areas, and it is probable that plantings in these areas are substantially
greater than recorded. Recently Government increased the producer price of
cocoa from N 302/ton to N 400/ton. It appears that the lower producer price
was just sufficient for farmers to maintain their farms satisfactorily, but
there is no evidence that it was inducing new planting or replanting on a
significant scale. Plantings in the 1950's were made when producer prices
ranged between N 300 and N 400/ton. Given inflation and labor costs that
since that time have more than trebled it is clear that the incentives to
invest in cocoa were appreciably less than 15-20 years ago. Alao there is
a diminishing amount of land suitable for new planting, and replanting
preseats technical problems that generally are beyond the capacity of the
average farmer to surmount without a large amount of technical assistance.
Until 1972 Government was unable to supply such assistance on a significant
scale.
3.04      The proposed projects were prepared to conform with FMG cocoa policy
which is aimed at ensuring that Nigeria retains its share of the world market.
The Western State Government believes that this can be achieved only through
replanting some 460,000 ac of aging cocoa over the next ten years together
with the establishment of about 95,000 ac of new cocoa. Whether such a large
program is justified will be determined by the survey of cocoa farms referred
to in para 4.02. In the interim it appears that the ongoing project and the
proposed project described in this report are justified.
3.05      In its projections of world cocoa supply the Bank 1/ estimates
world cocoa supply at 1.8 and 2.1 million metric tons in 1980 and 1985,
respectively; and that equilibrium between supply and demand will be reached
in 1980 at a current price of 61 cts/lb. This corresponds to 44.4 cts/lb in
1974 prices. Demand and supply are expected to grow at around 2.6X annually
until 1980 and at 3% thereafter, taking into account, as far as this is
possible, all planned and ongoing projects, including that described in this
report. Indeed, it could well be that without planned additional production,
a shortfall would occur in supplies that would increase prices to the extent
that substitution for cocoa might become attractive and thus detrimental to
the cocoa growing industry as a whole.
iAXf      In the Bank's projections Nigeria is expected to produce about
320,300 tons by 1980 and 385,000 tons by 1985, thereby retaining its share
of the world market. Included in this projection is production from the
ongoing and proposed Bank projects which would total some 41,000 tons at
maturity by 1986.
3.07      It may appear that there is little justification for Nigeria taking
measures to improve the productivity of its cocoa farmers given (a) the
nation's oil wealth and much lessened dependence on agriculture for foreign
exchange, and (b) the growing urban community with its increasing demand for
farm products. Unfortunately, however, the scope for cocoa farmers to
1/   "The World Cocoa Market - Review and Outlook for Bank Lending" (R74-36).



-5-
diversify is very limited since while with cocoa they enjoy an almost world
wide comparative advantage, in the case of most other farming activities
the converse is true. The cocoa belt is too dry for tree crops such as oil
palms and rubber and apart from citrus which is already grown widely,
the only other alternative tree crop is robusta coffee, a commodity offering
few if any advantages over cocoa. Farms are too small for grazing livestock,
and a severe disease problem exists for all but trypano-tolerant cattle.
If the cocoa farmer switches to food crops he is confronted by (a) the yet
to be solved problem of maintaining soil fertility apart from using a system
of long duration fallows and (b) the need to cultivate by hand cropE for which
improved varieties capable of producing returns per man day employed compar-
able to cocoa have yet to be bred. In short, the Nigerian cocoa farmer with
his aging trees faces, in the absence of the proposed project, declining
incomes and standards of living unless his industry receives the new invest-
ment that is needed to retain its comparative advantage by the use of the
modern technology that has been developed in Nigeria and elsewhere.
3.08      In its cocoa policy Nigeria acknowledges that substantial Government
assistance is necessary to induce farmers to undertake new plantXng and re-
planting, and to begin to use inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides, and im-
proved planting material. Consequently, Government provides:
a.   credit for new planting and for replanting; and
b.   subsidies on pesticides, improved planting material
and fertilizers.
While some credit was made available to cocoa farmers in Western State from
1965 to 1970 this was inadequate in amount to sustain a well-organized program;
and as supervision of participating farmers was inadequate, its impact on pro-
duction has been insignificant. The situation changed in 1971 when implemen-
tation of the Bank-financed Western State Cocoa project (764-UNI) began, see
para 4.07. To date no credit program for cocoa has been implemented in the
Mid-Western or other southern states.
3.09      In Western State, 50% of the cost of fertilizers, pesticides and
seedlings is met by Government subsidies which cost about N 1.8 million per
annum. The greater part of this is made up of subsidies on pesticides, and
in particular insecticides. This cost compares with average annual State
Government revenues of N 29 million (1966-1970) from cocoa (see Annex I,
para 18), and thus up to now cocoa subsidies have been financed by the industry
itself.
3.10      Subsidizing farm inputs is part of Government's overall agricultural
development policy, and is aimed at establishing a realization in the farming
community of the benefits of using such inputs. Although with the expected
higher prices for cocoa, farmers should be able to pay the full cost of fer-
tilizers and pesticides that are now subsidized, there is insufficient evidence,
.



-6-
at this time, to show that cocoa farmers would apply part of their additional
incomes to purchase the same quantity of inputs at a higher price. Moreover,
Government's input subsidization policy is applied throughout the agricultural
sector and since cocoa accounts for only a small part of the sector, it would
be impractical to introduce changes for one crop. For example, it is highly
probable that a black market would develop in subsidized inputs with cocoa
farmers purchasing fertilizers and pesticides from farmers who have bought
these at subsidized prices. Additionally, the subsidization of agricultural
inputs forms part of Government's income redistribution policy, under which
oil revenues are distributed to other sectors. During negotiations assurances
were obtained from Government that it would review with the Bank from time to
time its subsidization policy affecting the cocoa production.
B. Producer Prices
3.11      Producer prices for cocoa were set by the State Marketing Boards
in advance of each harvest season until 1972. This was done in agreement
with the Federal Military Government, the Central Bank, and other State
Marketing Boards dealing in cocoa. In early 1973, FMG announced that in
future it would determine producer prices and that export taxes, previously
15 to 20% of fob value of cocoa, would be lowered to 10% or the fob value.
Appropriate details and legislation are still awaited, but the changes will
be made, and are in line with recommendations to increase producer prices
made by the IBRD agriculture sector mission which visited Nigeria in April/
May 1971 1/. In the meantime it has been announced that the cocoa producer
price for the period October 1973 to October 1974 will be increased from
N302/ton to N400/ton. On this basis and assuming the Bank's price forecast
of a world price of 44.4 US cts/lb in 1974 the farmer would receive 68% of
fob value. With increased efficiency in the marketing and handling of cocoa
the price for the farmer could be increased (see tables at Annex 2 for
breakdown of different prices).
C. Institutions
3.12     Mtinistries of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR).  In both
States MANR, which are headed by Commissioners for Agriculture appointed by
the State Military Governors, have responsibility for agricultural develop-
ment. The MANR assist farmers by providing agricultural extension services
and by operating fisheries, veterinary and forestry divisions. The MANR are
responsible also for export produce inspection services. Cocoa research, a
responsibility of FMG, is conducted by the Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria
(CRIN) whose main station is located at Gambari near Ibadan. CRIN has
developed valuable new cultivation techniques as well as new high yielding
cocoa varieties.
1/   Agricultural Sect r Survey Nigeria, Report PA-115A, January 26, 1973
(3 volumes).



-7-
3.13      The impact of the MANR, in cocoa and other fields, has been patchy,
not because of any serious lack of trained staff - by and large staff numbers
and quality are adequate - but because extension advice is not supported by
the other services, credit, input supply, and product marketing that are
essential for any successful program of agricultural development. The cocoa
project financed with Loan 764-UNI represents the only agriculttural development
program in Nigeria where to date this approach has been adopted, although it
is a feature of the rural development, rice, livestock and oil palm production
projects that the Bank has recently prepared, and appraised in Nigeria.
3.14      Cocoa Marketing Cooperatives have existed in Nigeria since 1930 and
despite a somewhat chequered career have proven generally successful. The
basic unit of the cooperative system is the primary society which operates
at village level. The apex organization in the Western State is the Associa-
tion of Nigerian Cooperative Exporters (ANCE) and the Mid-Western Nigerian
Cooperative Federation (MWNCF) fills a similar role in the Mid-Western State.
In both States the cooperative movement is being actively assisted and en-
couraged by Government. Further details on Cooperatives are given in Annex 3.
3.15      The Western Nigeria and Mid-Western Marketing Boards were established
under the Western Region Marketing Board Law of 1954 and separated in 1963
after the creation of the Mid-Western State. They are responsible for market-
ing their State's main export crops, until recently for fixing cocoa and other
producer prices, and for accumulating operating surpluses to support producer
prices at times of low world prices (Annex I gives details of the Boards'
activities and organization). The Boards operate through licensed buying
agents (LBAs) who purchase, grade, store and transport produce to port of
shipment. Twenty-seven LBAs in the two States are cooperative unions and
these handle about 17% and 43% respectively of Western and Mid-Western cocoa
production. Details of LBA functions and allowances are in Annex I.
3.16      The Produce Inspection Divisions (PID) of the State MANR are res-
ponsible by law for maintaining quality and for ensuring that cocoa is of
exportable quality when handed over for shipment. A further quality check
is made immediately prior to shipment by the Federal Produce Inspection Service.
About 99% of all cocoa exported from Nigeria is Grade I.
3.17      The Nigerian Produce Marketing Company Limited (NPMC) is a non-
profit export marketing agency for all State Marketing Boards. NPMC collects
sale proceeds, pays export duty and port, shipping and handling charges, and
remits the balance less operating and handling charges, to the respective
boards. Most cocoa is sold by private contract for delivery in six to nine
months. These arrangements worked satisfactorily, but the role of NPMC will
be changed (see para 3.11). Details of NPMC are in Annex I.
3.18      The Cooperative Investment and Trust Society, Ltd. (Cooperative
Trust), together with its subsidiary, the Cooperative Bank of Western Nigeria,
was established to provide the Western State cooperative movement with com-
.      mercial banking services; seasonal production loans to cooperative society



- 8 -                                                 d
members, and seasonal cocoa pu;-chasing loans to Cooperative Unions. The Trust
and the Cooperative Bank are well managed and organized. They have expanded
rapidly over the last three years and enjoy the full confidence of both the
cooperative movement and financial institutions in Nigeria, in particular
because they have maintained satisfactory banking standards and preserved
their financial and economic decisions from direct political influences even
in the politically agitated period follaoing Independence. The Trust and
Cooperative Bank have proved a satisfactory channel for loans to participants
in the first phase project, and would continue this role in the second. De-
tails of the two agencies together with financial data are in Annex 4.
3.19      The Western Government reorganized its official agricultural credit
system by creating a new Western State Agricultural and Industrial
Investtient Corporation (AIIC) in early 1972. AIIC had just completed its
first financial year at the time of appraisal, but since then AIIC has been
dissolved on the recommendations of consultants (the Economist Intelligence
Unit). The Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC) has been established in its
place. The ACC has been formed but funding arrangements and staffing have
vet to be finalized.
3.20      MANR encouraged the formation of the Western State Farmers
Union (WSFU) to represent farmers interests at State level. MANR,
which continues to support WSFU has proposed that ACC and WSFU should be
used for the distribution of farm credit to non-cooperative members under
the proposed project with ACC acting in the same way as the Cooperative
Trust and branches of WSFU in the same way as the cocoa marketing cooperatives.
The follow-up mission which visited Nigeria in September 1973 concluded that:
(a) in its present form the WSFU is not a suitable institution
to assume responsibilities similar to those of the cooperative
and lacks the legal powers to perform functions such as
cocoa marketing and credit recovery;
(b) to carry out similar functions to the cooperatives, WSFU
should create a financially and administratively autonomous
agency in the form of a multipurpose cooperative, company or
corporation. This agency, which would be subject to appro-
priate Governmental supervision, would provide WSFUT members
with cooperative marketing facilities;
(c) ACC could be a channelling agency for credit to cocoa farmers
provided that it is:
(1)  established under conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(2) properly staffed at the head office and in the field; and
(3) adequately funded and not burdened with responsibility
for recovery of bad debts incurred by AIIC.



-9-
Government indicated that ACC and the proposed WSFU agency would be funded
and staffed in forms satisfactory to the Bank before their participation in
the project. Even if this may take a substantial amount of time, it is
believed that in the meantime sufficient potential participants who are
cooperative members will join the scheme and thus ensure achievement of
planting targets. Further details on WSFU and ACC are in Annex 3 and 4,
respectively.
3.21      In Mid-Western State, the Central Financing Society (CFS) is the
apex financing society for cooperatives. Although not as well developed as
the Cooperative Trtst, CFS would be a suitable credit channel for farmers
participating in the proposed project. Further details on CFS are at Annex 4.
IV. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Western State
4.01      The Western State project area covers the same cocoa growing areas
as the first cocoa project: the former Abeokuta, Ibadan, Oyo, Ondo and Ijebu
Provinces (see Map). Within these areas climatic and soil conditions are
well suited to cocoa production, and although Swollen Shoot Virus Disease
(SSVD, see Annex 5) is endemic, the Nigerian strains do not cause trees to
die. In two areas - designated areas of mass infection (AMI) - one near
Ibadan with about 100,000 acres of cocoa, and the other near Ilaro with about
25,000 acres of cocoa (see Map), no SSVD control measures are practised,
since the only effective form of control would require cutting out most of the
existing cocoa trees, and the economy of these areas would be completely dis-
rupted. The AMI's, however, include areas very suitable for cocoa replanting
and this can be done provided the measures described in Annex 5 are undertaken.
Elsewhere all cocoa farms are regularly surveyed and when SSVD is identified,
the diseased trees and their contacts are mandatorily uprooted and the grower
compensated. CRIN has developed cocoa varieties with resistance to SSVD and
when sufficient seed of such varieties becomes available, see para 5.08, these
will be very suitable for planting in the AMI and other areas where the inci-
dence of the disease is high.
4.02      Survey of Cocoa Farms.  The last comprehensive survey of the State's
cocoa industry was made in the mid-1950's and is now out of date. Consequently
a survey of the Western State cocoa industry is being financed under the first
cocoa project. The survey is under way and accurate data on total cocoa
acreage; farm size and age of plantings; number of farms, farmers and farm
families, and average yields, costs and returns, should be available in 1974.
Such data will be invaluable for planning the development of, and for manag-
ing the State's cocoa industry.   Preliminary information indicates that more
than 90% of Western State cocoa is within the project area.
4.03      Labor Situation and Requirements.  In view of the various climato-
logical sub-regions of the Western State, there is no marked slack season for
rural labor but there are peak labor requirements during the May to August



period, when food crops are being planted and food and tree crop farms weeded
and maintained. The average cocoa farm family has some three active equivalent
workers. Additional labor is hired daring the harvest period, particularly
in September and October, thus, hired labor, particularly that moving in from
the savannan zone and the Northern States, is essential to cocoa farmers in
the project area, especially those whose holdings exceed 2 to 3 acres. The
return per acre affects the amount of labor used on a cocoa farm, and the use
of new varieties, fertilizers and improved disease and pest controls, would
enable farmers to offer wages sufficiently attractive to ensure an adequate
supply of labor.
4.04      Farming Systems and Incomes.  Cocoa farmers generally produce most
of the food crops needed for family subsistence. Data collected in the 1960's
from intensive surveys of selected villages, showed a typical cocoa grower
In the former Ondo Province to have the use of some 20 acres 1/ of which about
10 acres in fallow, 3 acres planted with maize, cocoyams, cassava, cowpeas and
vegetables, and about 5.5 acres in tree crops of which some 3.8 acres in
cocoa and the balance in coffee, oil palms and kola with citrus being grown
in the housing compounds. All cocoa farmers kept livestock, goats, sheep
and poultrv, and it was estimated that cocoa farmers in the surveyed village
earned an estimated average gross income of N 40 per acre from food crops,
and about N 43 per acre from tree crops, giving an annual net return of about
N 350 (US$532) per farm. With an average farm family of 6 persons, average
net annual income from crops was N 58 or US$88 per capita. Most families
have other sources of income, from petty trading and other activities.
4.05      Cocoa farmers generally live in large villages or small towns, none
live on their farms. Usually water is obtained from wells, but in the larger
centers supplies are reticulated and some centers have electricity.  Primary
education is available throughout the area although secondary schools are
more dispersed. Government dispensaries are maintained in most villages,
and hospitals have been established in the major towns. By and large the
cocoa areas enjoy substantially better standards of social welfare than the
rest of rural Nigeria.
4.06      Communications. Good roads and a railway are available for
evacuating cocoa from the project area to the ports of Lagos and Warri.
The project area is generally well served by primary roads and secondary
roads, although secondary roads linking small villages to cocoa purchase
centers and farm access roads are often in poor repair and farmers using
these have to pay excessive transportation charges.
1/   Population pressure in the former Ondo Province is less than in other
cocoa growing areas and total farm size greater.



B. The First Cocoa Project (764-UNI)
4.07      The Western State Cocoa Development Project began operations in
November 1971 with the objective of planting or replanting 43,5G0 acres by
end of 1976. Progress has been satisfactory and although a slow start made it
impossible to establish all the nurseries required for the 1972 season's,
9,000 acre establishment target, 5,500 acres were planted by July 1972. The
standards of planting were good although the establishment of shade prior to
cocoa replanting in many cases was unsatisfactory due to the same time
constraint experienced in the case of the nurseries. Despite this, and
despite the abnormal dry season of 1972/73 losses in 1972 plantings were
only 45%, compared with 75% on plantings made by CRIN, and the 10-15% acceptable
in a normal year. For 1973, time was available for preestablishing shade and
overall technical standards are good. In 1973 the planting target of 10,000
acres was slightly exceeded and all 1972 vacancies supplied; consequently
more than 15,000 acres are established compared with an appraisal estimate
of 18,000 acres. Field counts made in late 1973 reveal losses of less than 5%.
A recent expert technical supervision mission has commented most favorably on
the technical aspects of the project.
4.08      Farmer response has been good.  Credit aspects have been handled
efficiently, and CDU management is satisfactory. A high degree of esprit
de corps and dedication has developed within CDU which is fully Nigerian
staffed. Project costs are in line with appraisal report estimates.
C. Mid-Western State
4.09      Cocoa in Mid-Western State is confined to its northwest areas which
adjoin the Ondo Province of Western State. In these areas rainfall and soils
are very suitable for cocoa. The project area would include parts of the
Akoko, Edo, Etsako Owan, Ishan and Eastern Benin and Western Benin (see Map).
4.10      The Mid-Western State has about 42,000 acres of cocoa, yielding an
average (1968-72) annual production of about 10,000 tons; or about 530 lb
per acre. The situation of the cocoa industry and of the cocoa farming com-
munity is similar to that obtaining in the Western State.
V. THE PROJECTS
A. Description
5.0I     In Westeni State, the project would be the second phase of a program
begun in 1971 with Bank assistance to rehabilitate the Western State cocoa
industry, and would be carried out over a seven year development period.
The project would involve:



-12 -                                               .
a.   planting with high yielding cocoa varieties up to 18,100 acres
of new cocoa and replanting up to 43,900 acres on which cocoa
is either old and yielding at sub-economic levels or has been
abandoned. This would be achieved by providing some 24,000
cocoa farmers with credit for planting material, labor, fer-
tilizers and chemicals under the close supervision of the
existing Cocoa Development Unit (CDU);
b.   training project staff and farmers in modern cocoa production
techniques;
c.   rehabilitating some 200 acres of MANR cocoa seed gardens planted
with Amazon hybrid varieties and in establishing a 25 acre seed
garden of SSVD resistant varieties with CRIN assistance; and
d.   rehabilitating or upgrading 600 miles of secondary and farm
access roads in the project area.
5.02      In Mid-Western State the project would be carried out over eight
years and would involve:
a.   planting with high yielding cocoa varieties up to 10,000 acres
of new cocoa. This would be achieved by providing some 3,000
farmers with credit for planting material, labor, fertilizers
and chemicals under the close supervision of a Tree Crop Unit
(TCU) to be established under the project;
b.   training staff and farmers in modern cocoa production
techniques;
c.   rehabilitating the 16 acre MANR seed garden at Uhonmora with
high yielding Amazon hybrid varieties; and
d.   constructing or upgrading some 63 miles of secondary roads
in the project area.
B. Field Development
5.f3      Including plantings that would continue to be made under the
ongoing first phase project, the acreage of cocoa plantings (NP) and replant-
ings (RP) would be as follows:



- 13 -
Caleadar Year          1972   1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978   Total
-------------------------    acres--------------------------
Western State
RP ongoing project   2,500  6,900   8,600   9,000       -       -         -    27,000
RP proposed project    -       -     4,900  11,250  27,750       -        -    43,900
NP ongoing project   3,000  3,300   4,200   6,000       -        -        -    16,500
NP proposed project    -       -     2,100   3,750  12,250       -        -    18,100
Total ongoing
project           5,500 10,200  12,800  15,000       -       -         -    43,500
Total proposed
project              -      -     7,000  15,000  40,000      -              62,000
Total Western State  5,500 10,200  19,800  30,000  40,000        -        -   105,00
Mid-Western State
Proposed project        -      -      -       1,500   2,750   2,750    3,000  10j000
GRAND TOTAL           5,500 10 200  19,800  31_500  422750   2,750    3,000 115 500
In Western State all project cocoa would be in production by 1979, and in
Mid-Western State by 1981.  Operations in Western State would be apportioned
as follows between the various CDUi administrative circles:
Akure       Ife       Ibadan      Abeokuta         Total
___-__-------------------acres--------------------
RP            17,500       22,200    19,100        12,100          70,900
NP            19,000       14,700        500          400          34,600
Total         36,500       36,900    19,600        12,500         105,500
In Mid-Western State, project plantings would be apportioned equally between
the three project zones.
Cocoa Establishment
5.04      In establishing their cocoa, farmers would receive credit for seed-
lings, labor, fertilizers and capsid control. Credit would be in kind - cocoa
seedlings produced by the project units in centralized nurseries, fertilizer,
insecticides, and sprayers and in cash for part of the labor required for farm
development and maintenance until plantings are four years old. Fertilizers
would be supplied by the project unit for application in the first four years.
After the four years, farmers would be able to obtain seasonal input credits
.      from the credit institutions.



- 14 -
5.05      The Western State project would involve the supply and distribution
to farmers of some 32 million seedlings, 10,000 tons of fertilizer, 16,000
gallons of chemicals and 12,000 sprayers; and in the Mid-Western State 5.2
million seedlings, 1,600 tons of fertilizer, 2,500 gallons of chemicals and
1,500 sprayers.
5.06      Pro ject Staff Training.  The Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria
(CRIN) would provide inservice training for the staff of both projects. It
would give an intensive two-week course covering modern methods of cocoa pro-
duction. This training of some 340 agricultural officers and superintendents,
agricultural assistants and special laborers would be financed under the
project. In addition, an estimated 10% of project farmers would attend a 5
day-course in cocoa farm management at CRIN which is equipped for this purpose.
CRIN would also supply the services of its scientists to the project units as
required. Under the first cocoa project CRIN has proved that it is capable
of handling these training requirements.
5.07      Project Administration.  To implement the cocoa project financed
under loan 764-UNI a Cocoa Development Unit (CDU) responsible to Western
*;tate MANR was established. CDU works well and would be responsible for the
second phase project. In Mid-Western State, a Tree Crop Unit (TCU), responsible
to MANR would be created which would be responsible for carrying out the
cocoa project appraised in this report and oil palm and rubber projects now
under preparation. Details of project organization are in Chapter VII.
5.08      Seed Gardens.  Western State MANR operates six seed gardens pro-
ducing high yielding hybrid varieties totalling some 200 acres. Under the pro-
ject CDU would assume responsibility for these and has already made arrange-
ments to increase pod production to meet 1974 planting requirements. Similarly,
in Mid-Western State, MANR's seed garden at Uhonmora would be taken over by
TCU. This garden will not be in full production for another four years,
and until that time seed required for the project would be obtained from
GRIN. With CRIN assistance CDU started to establish a new 25-acre seed garden
to produce SSVD resistant hybrids to meet AMI needs. Seed from this will
not be available for five to six years. The costs of all seed gardens have
been included in project costs. Assurances that CRIN would supply all additional
seed pods required for the projects were obtained during negotiations.
5.09      Construction Program.  In Western State CDW headquarters in Ibadan
would be expanded to accommodate the necessary increase in CDU staff and an
office building and store would be constructed in each of the four project
circles. Six smaller sub-circle branch office buildings would also be con-
structed. In Mid-Western State, TCU headquarters would be built in Benin,
and three office buildings with stores at each of the three Regional Units.
In addition two houses would be built for officers in charge of Regional Units.
.0



*                                        - 15 -
5.10      Road Program.  Western State CDU estimates that some 1,400 miles
of secondary and farm access roads need upgrading to permit the efficient
transport of cocoa from growing areas. Under the project, 600 miles of secondary
and farm access roads would be improved during the three-year period 1974-77.
This program would cover priority needs and should not be a burden on CDU
management, which would establish a road unit, headed by a road engineer.
Equipment 1:o be purchased would be employed by CDU and maintained by the sup-
plier in accordance with a special covenant in the equipment sales contract.
After const:ruction the equipment would be handed over to the local authorities
responsible for maintenance, or retained by CDIU if it is to continue the road
program.  In project costs it has been assumed that some 350 miles of existing
secondary :roads would be upgraded and that 250 miles of farm access roads,
which are Little more than improved tracks, would be developed. The main
thrust of the program would be in the eastern part of the State (Akure, Ilesha,
Ife, Ondo, Owo and Ekiti), as roads in the Abeokuta - Ilaro area and around
Ibadan are generally in fair condition. Specifications and design standards
are at Annex 6.
5.11      The Mid-Western State Road Program.  In Mid-Western State some 63
miles of roads would be upgraded to secondary road level. The road sections
have been :identified; they and the work required on them are listed in Annex 6,
and the roads are shown on the Map. As in Western State a road engineer would
be hired to execute the road program, see Chapter VII.
VI. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Costs
6.01      Estimated costs for both Western and Mid-Western projects total
N 26.3 million (US$ 40.0 million) with a foreign exchange component of about
N 6.6 million (US$ 10.0 million) or 25% of total costs. The share of the two
projects in total project costs would be:
FE Component
N     US$       % of Total      N      US$
Million           cost           Million         _
Western State          21.6   32.9           82        5.4       8.3      25
Mid-Westerni State      4.7    7.1           18         1.2      1.7      24
6.02      The breakdown of project costs is detailed in Annex 7 and summarized
in the fol.lowing table:



Summary of Project Costs 1974 - 1982
Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign    Total         Exchange
A. Wese   N million     ..... 00000 US$ million .....0           %
A. Western State
On-farm costs - replanting             4.51    1.30      5.81        6.85    1.98        8.83           22
- new planting          1.67    0.54      2.21         2.54    0.82       3.36           24
Subtotal        6* 1     18 8 T   8 oO2        9.39    2 =5      12.19           23
Staff and training                    3.54    0.39      3.93         5.38    0.59       5.97           10
Buildings                             0.27    0.08       0.35        0.41    0.12       0-53           23
Vehicles and sprayers                  0.16    0.66      0.82        0.25    1.00        1.25           80
Road program L                         1.82    0.92      2.74        2.76    1.40       4.16           34
Operating costs L2                    0.20    0.19      0.39         0031    0.29       0.60           49
Subtotal       12.17    b-       16.25        1 T705    620      2 240
Contingencies - physical              0.62    0.20      0.82         0.94    0.30       1.24           25
- price                 3-43    1015      4.58         5.21    1675        .j96          25
Total Western State             16.22             21.65        24.65   8Q25       32.90           25
B.  Mid-Western State
On-farm costs                          0.92    0030      1.22        1.40    0.46        1.86          29
Staff and training                    1.17    0.13       1.30        1.78    0.20       1.98           10
Buildings                              0.13    0.04      0.17        0.20    0.06       0.26           25
Vehicles and sprayers                  0.06    0.16      0.22       009    0.24        0.33            75
Road program /1                        0.31    0.15      0.46        0.47   023        0.70            32
Operating costs /2                     0.07    0.08      0.15        0.11    0.12        0.23
Subtotal        27      .06       3.52            07      31 T36                 2
Contingencies - physical               0.14    0.04     0.18         0.21    0.06       0.27            24
- price                 0.74    0.23      0.97         1.12    0.35       1.47           24
Total Mid-Western State          3.54    1.13      4.67         5.38    1.72       7.10           24
C.  SECOND COOOA PROJECT                  19076    6.56    26.32        30.03    Z.9740.  2L
/1   Road program includes per onal costs, equipment operating costs, civil works contracts, and road equipment.
/2   Operational costs are tho   costs due to operating of offices and vehicles of the staff.



- 17 -
6.03      Project costs include a 5% physical contingency calculated over the
seven and eight year development periods and price contingencies 1/ compounded
annually over the proposed seven-year loan disbursement period (see paras 6.10
and 6.11). Contingencies amount to N 6.6 million (US$9.9 million) or 24.8%
of total project costs. Costs which reflect end 1973/begin 1974 conditions,
are based on Government salary and wage scales, up-to-date building and road
construction costs, and recent quotations by suppliers of vehicles, materials
and farm inputs. Labor requirements, operating and other relevant costs
are based on experience obtained fror,i the on-going cocoa project after review
with MANR and CRIN. Project costs include imnort duties, income tax on staff
salaries, and other local taxes estimated at N 0.78 million (UIS$1.18 million)
consisting of N 0.61 million (US$0.93 million) and N 0.17 million (USSO.25
million) for the Western and Mid-Western States respectively.
B. Proposed Financing
6.04      Agricultural projects in Nigeria, except those involving massive
infrastructure, typically have a low foreign exchange component. If IBRD
financed only this percentage its contribution would be excessively small;
thus it is proposed that IBRD should make a loan of US$ 20.0 mil'ion to cover
50% of project costs. Such loan would be made to the Federal Military Government
for 20 years including a five-year grace period for principal during which
interest and commitment charges on the Bank loan would be paid. Under this
arrangement US$ 10.0 million or 50% of the loan would cover the estimated
foreign exchange component and the balance of US$ 10.0 million (25% of the
loan) would finance 33% of local currency costs. The IBRD Loan would be
appropriately apportioned and onlent to the Western and Mid-Western States
on identical terms together with Federal Military Government grants totalling
US$ 10.0 million (N 6.6 million) or 25% of project costs. On this basis,
the Western State Government would receive a total of N 16.2 million (US$
24.7 million) from FMG of which N 10.8 million (US$ 16.5 million) would come
from the Bank. Similarly the Mid-Western State would receive N 3.5 million
(US$ 5.3 million) including N 2.3 million (US$ 3.5 million) from the Bank.
In both States, the FMG grants and Bank loans would represent some 75% of the
project costs and the remainder would be provided by the respective State
Governments. These contributions would be N 5.4 (US$8.2 million) for the
Western State and N 1.2 (US$ 1.8 million) for the Mid-Western State.
6.05      Each year the State Governments would make block budgetary alloca-
tions to cover annual project costs, and the funds so earmarked would be
made available quarterly in advance to the respective project management
units. Expenses reimbursable under the FMG loan agreements would be claimed
1/   Price contingencies applied are in accordance with Bank guidelines and
are:
12/10/8/8 ... etc. range for buildings and local civil work
contracts.
9/7/5/5 ... etc. range for equipment, furniture, vehicles
and farm inputs.
6/6 ... etc. range for labor, salaries and operating
expenses.



- 18 -
from the Federal Ministry of Finance which would in turn claim from the Bank
under the IBRD loan agreement. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Governments that the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan
agreements between FMG and the two State Governments would be acceptable to
the Bank and that funds would be made available quarterly in advance to the
project units.
6.06      In summary, the financing of the two projects would be as follows:
Western State      Mid-Western State         Total
Project              Project         Projects Costs
N    US$    %      N     US$        %   N      US$    X
State Govern-
ment          5.41  8.22   25  1.17   1.78        25  6.58   10.00  25
FMG             5.41  8.23   25  1.17   1.77        25  6.58   10.00  25
Bank           10.83 16.45   50  2.33   3.55        50 13.16   20.00  50
Total Costs  21.65 32.90  100  4.67   7.10        100 26.32   40.00 100
6.07      The Western State Government would apply the total N 21.65 million
(US$32.90 million) representing the proceeds of the Bank loan, FMG grant and
the State's contribution in the following manner:
a.   to CDU, an amount of N 7.42 million (US$11.27 million) for
staff salaries, operating costs, building, vehicles and
equipment, and subsidies on farm inputs;
b.   to CDU, an amount of N 2.74 million (US$4.17 million) to
finance and operate the road program;
ce   to CDIU, an amount of N 5.40 million (US$8.21 million) as
contingencies on the above items; and
d.   to the Cooperative Trust, and to ACC a total amount of
N 6.09 million (US$9.25 million) for onlending to farmers
for farm inputs and hired labor.
The amount to be- onlent through the Cooperative Trust and ACC would be fixed
annually and approved by the Bank on the basis of the CDU work program and
budget for the following year. This requirement would be incorporated in
the subsidiary loan agreements between the Western State Government and the
two credit organizations; the terms and conditions of these agreements (see
para. 7.13) would be acceptable to the Bank and assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.



- 19 -
o.08      The Mid-Western State Government would apply the proceeds of the
Bank loan, FMG grant and its own contribution, amounting to a total of N 4.67
million (US$7.10) as follows:
a.   to TCU, an amount of N 2.15 million (US$3.27 million)
for staff salaries, operating costs, building, vehicles
and-equipment, and for the subsidies on farm inputs;
b.   to TCU, an amount of N 0.47 million (US$0.72 million) to
finance and operate the road program;
c.   to TCU, an amount of N 1.14 million (US$1.72 million) as
contingencies on the above items; and
d.   to CFS, an amount of N 0.91 million (US$1.39 million) for
onlending to farmers for farm inputs and hired labor.
The amount to be onlent through CFS would be fixed annually and approved by
the Bank on the basis of the work program and budget for the following year
of the TCU cocoa division. This would be incorporated in the subsidiary loan
agreement between the Mid-Western State Government and CFS; the terms and
conditions of this agreement would be acceptable to the Bank, and assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
C. Procurement
6.09      Procurement of vehicles, tractors, road making equipment, sprayers,
tools, fertilizers and insecticides, valued at about N 4.0 million (US$6.1
million), would be through international competitive bidding in accordance
with IBRD guidelines. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a
15% preference when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign manufactur-
ers. Contracts for building, road construction and other civil work, valued
at N 2.5 million (US$ 3.8 million), are not large enough to attract foreign
interest and would be awarded under local competitive bidding. In the latter
foreign firms would not be precluded; as such work would be advertised in at
least one local newspaper and the representatives of all Bank members and of
Switzerland in Lagos would be notified. A 7.5% preference for domestic
contractors will apply. The major part of project costs would be for labor
hired by project farmers, staff salaries and planting material, valued at
N 1.'.2 million (1S$18.5 million) and operating costs of vehicles, headquarters
and road equipment amounting to N 1.0 million (US$1.6 million).  None of these
cost, totalling N13.2 million (US$20.1 million) would be suitable for any form
of competitive bidding. Contingencies of N 6.5 million (US$ 9.9 million)
would be used as required. Nigeria has no preferential import tariff
arrangements and competition between foreign manufacturers on the domestic
market is keen.



- 20 -
D. Disbursement
6.10      The IBRD loan to Western State project would be disbursed over the
seven year (1974/75-1980/81) development period. The disbursement period
would cover the proposed three-year planting program, plus four additional
years for consolidation and upkeep of immature cocoa.
6.11      In Mid-Western State the IBRD loan similarly would be disbursed
over seven years (1974/75-1980/81), the eighth-year development costs being
financed by the State and FMG. These costs would be small and consist of
on-farm and TCU operating costs required to bring the last 3,000 acres into
bearing.
6.12      During the seven-year disbursement periods, the Bank loan would be
expended against:
a.   s0% of all loans made to farmers under the project, exclud-
ing sprayers, which are provided for in (b) below, totalling
N 5.57 million (US$8.50 million); N 4.87 million (US$7.40
million) in the Western State and N 0.70 million (US$1.10
million) in the Mid-Western State;
b.   100% of the CIF cost of directly imported vehicles, tractors,
sprayers and road making equipment or 80% of the cost of
these items if locally procured, totalling N 1.29 million
(US$1.95 million); N 1.05 million (US$1.60 million) in the
Western State and N 0.24 million (US$0.35 million) in the
Mid-Western State; and
c.   45% of the staff and training costs, building costs and
road program costs, excluding the road construction equip-
ment mentioned in (a) above, totalling N 3.72 million (US$5.65
million); N 2.94 million (US$4.45 million) in the Western
State and N 0.78 million (US$1.20 million) in the Mid-
Western State.
An unallocated amount of N 2.57 million (US$3.90 million); N 1.96 million
(US$3.0 million) and N 0.61 million CUS$0.90 million) in the Western and
Mid-Western States respectively, would meet contingencies on the above
items. The breakdown of the proposed Bank loan by categories is detailed
in Annex 8. Disbursements would be against import documentation, contracts,
and certified records of expenditures. For disbursements made against cer-
tified expenditures, documentation would not be submitted for review as a
matter of course but would be retained by the respective project management
units for scrutiny by Bank supervision missions. Any undisbursed Bank funds
due to cost savings would be cancelled.



- 21 -
6.13      The two FMG grants of N 5.41 million (US$8.22 million) and N 1.17
million (US$1.78 million) to the Western and Mid-Western States would be
disbursed under the same categories as the IBRD loan but over seven and eight
years respectively. FMG would disburse to the States 80% of the difference
between the total cost of each item eligible for financing by IBRD and that
part of the cost financed by IBRD.
E. Accounts and Audits
6.14      Project accounts and records of disbursements to individual farmers
would be maintained by the project units, and farmers' loan accounts would be
kept by the Cooperative Trust, ACC and CFS. Project accounts, and farmers'
loan accounts maintained by the credit institutions would be audited annually
by independent auditors, mutually acceptable to State and Federal Governments
and to the Bank. The auditing of cooperative societies' accounts would con-
tinue to be the responsibility of the Registrars of Cooperatives (see Annex
3). Arrangements would also have to be made for the auditing of WSFU accounts.
Audited annual accounts, balance sheets, and operating statements of all proj-
ect units would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the closing
of the financial year. During negotiations, assurances to this effect were
obtained.
VII.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization
7.01      In both States project implementation would be the responsibility
of( units responsible to the MANR, but enjoying more autonomy than the usual
government department. The Cocoa Development Unit (CDU) would operate in
Western State and the Tree Crop Unit (TCU) in the Mid-Western State. CDU is
in existence and its performance has been satisfactory; consequently, functions,
organization and responsibilities would be maintained for the proposed project
.and assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiationCS. Senior ACC
officials wotuld also be seconded to CDU for project credit operations if ACC
is reorganized and participates in the project (see para 3.20).
7.0?      CDtl field management in Western State is effected through four
main offices or circles located at Ibadan, Ilesha, Abeokuta and Akure, and
eachi staffed by an officer equivalent to the grade of Agricultural Officer
(AO). Each field office controls two to five operational units each managed
by an Agricultural Superintendent (AS) and including four agricultural assist-
ants (AA), responsible for soil testing and planting and replanting operations.
Each AA directs four special laborers (SL) who work at farmer level. These



- 22 -
arrangements provide a coverage of one SL to 25 farmers in the planting years,
and an average overall coverage of one SL to 55 farmers. CDW also has a field
control unit which makes an independeit technical audit of CDU work.
7.03      For the proposed second project these arrangements would be slightly
modified. The four Circles would be retained but would become the responsi-
bility of officers of the grade of Senior Agricultural Officer (SAO) or
equivalent; and the operational units would be formed into two or three
groups which would be headed by AO's. These arrangements would give the
same farmer coverage but would substantially reinforce Circle management.
Project credit aspects would be handled by two Credit Officers at each Circle
who would be assisted by six Cooperative Inspectors to be seconded from the
Cooperative Division of the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives or directly
recruited by CDIU and approved by the Cooperative Division. Detailed CPU
staffing is given in Annex 7 and an orgartization chart is attached to Annex 5.
Ass',rances to this effect were obtained from government.
7.04      In Mid-Western State, the small size of the proposed project would
not justify a unit similar to that in Western State. However, as large
smallholder oil palm and rubber projects are being prepared a Tree Crop Unit
(TCU) would be established to manage these and the proposed cocoa project.
TCU would start operations in 1974 with the proposed cocoa project. It would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Mid-Western State Project Agreement
that TCU had been established with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank and that the project manager and the Head of TCU's Cocoa Division had
been appointed.
7.05      TCU would be headed by a Project Manager reporting to the Permanent
Secretary of MANR. The Project Manager would be assisted by a Controller of
Field Operations (CFO) and a Financial Controller. The CFO would be responsi-
ble for the technical aspects of all tree crop development projects managed
by TCU and would be assisted by three Division Heads each responsible for
one crop. The Cocoa Division would be formed when TCU is established and the
other Divisions when the oil palm and rubber projects are implemented. The
Financial Controller assisted by a Senior Accountant and a Senior Credit
Officer would be responsible for project accounting, and farmers credit opera-
tions. Detailed staffing requirements are given at Annex 7, Table 12 and an
organization ciart is attached to Annex 5.
7.06      Field management in the Mid-Western State would be effected through
three regional units located at Igarra, Uhonmora and Odighi. Each field office
would be headed by an AO controlling two or three operational units similar
to those of the Western State. A Credit Officer seconded from the Cooperative
Department would be assigned to each field office and would be assisted by
two Loan Assistants. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
cooperative staff would be seconded to the Cocoa Division of TCU as and when
requi red.



- 23 -
7.07      Road Program  Both CDU and TCU would establish road sections, which
would be responsible to the Project Managers for the execution of the road
components of the projects. The annual road programs and responsibilities
for their execution would be agreed and coordinated with the respective State
Ministries of Works and Transport and Local Councils. Details of the Road
Section staffing are at Annex 7, Tables 14 and 16.
7.08      FMANR would establish a Project Monitoring and Analysis Unit (PMAU)
to monitor and evaluate this cocoa project and other Federal Government
financed tree projects. The unit will also assist in the preparation of
:further tree crop projects. Assurances to this effect were obtained.
Project Coordinating or Steering Committees
7.09      In Western State a project Coordinating Committee chaired by the
Permanent Secretary, MANR and composed of representatives of all institutions
or departments involved in the project was established under the first cocoa
project. It has met regularly to review progress, financial statements and
technical aspects, and has provided useful advice to the Project Manager.
Government intends to maintain the Committee and to include representatives
from FMANR, Ministry of Works and Transportation and from ACC. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
7.10      In Mid-Western State, a similar Steering and Coordinating Committee
would be established under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary, MANR.
The Committee would include senior representatives of the Ministry of Finance,
the Cooperative Division, the Cooperative Financing Society, and the Project
Manager. It is also proposed to appoint a representative of the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and to coopt a representative of the Ministry of
Works and Transport for the period during which the road program would be
executed. The Head of TCU's Cocoa Division would act as secretary for
Cocoa Project business. Additional members would be appointed at a later
stage to accommodate the needs of oil palm and rubber projects. The Steering
and Coordinating Committee would advise on policy and operational procedures,
and would review the appointment of senior staff, the annual budget and work
program, quarterly progress reports and the annual reports and accounts. It
would be a condition of effectiveness that the Steering Committee had been
established in the Mid-Western State with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Credit Arrangements and Terms of Sub-Loans
7.11      Approved project farmers, in either State, would be eligible to
receive:
- credit, in cash and kind, of up to N 366 (US$556) to plant
four acres; two acres in the,first year of participation
followed by two acres in the third year if the initial
two acres are maintained satisfactorily;



- 24 -
- credit, in cash and kind, of up to N 386 (US$586) to re-
plant 1/ four acres; two acres in the first year of partici-
pation and if these are maintained satisfactorily an addi-
tional two acres in the third year.
The additional credit required for replanting largely reflects shade estab-
lishment costs. For new planting, shade is provided by existing trees until
the cocoa canopy is formed.
7.12      Credit would be disbursed in annual installments as follows:
Year       1      2       3      4       5      6       7       Total
_____ ------------- -----Nai ra---------------------------
RP (4 ac)          36.0    61.0   70.0   91.0   66.0   30.0   32.0         386
NP (4 ac)          95.0    42.0  117.0   66.0   22.0   24.0         -       366
Credits would be disbursed directly by the project authority, installments
being paid subject to the satisfactory completion of planting operations, see
Annex 5.
7.13      Credit would be provided through the Cooperative Trust, CFS and
ACC. Terms of new planting credits would be 12 years including a grace period
for principal of six years and the option to capitalize interest for five
years. Terms of replanting credits would be 13 years including a grace period
for principal of seven years and the option to capitalize interest for seven
years, see Annex 9, Tables 1 and 2. Interest would be 9-1/4%, assuming a
7-1/4% rate of interest on the Bank loan and a 2% margin to be retained by
the financial channel to cover administrative costs and credit risks. The
interest rate of 9-1/4% p.a. is'satisfactory.
7.14      A farmer wishing to participate in the project would apply to the
nearest CDU or TCU office whose staff would check his farming experience and
creditworthiness, and establish the suitability of hi§ farm for cocoa growing.
If the project criteria are satisfied and the farmer's membership of a cooper-
ative society or a branch of WSFU's agency confirmed, the farmer would sign a
loan agreement with his society or branch.
7.15      The Cooperative Trust, ACC and CFS would enter into loan agreements
with their respective State Governments for the amounts to be on-lent to primary
cooperative societies and to branches of WSFU's agency. These societies
and branches would have individual loan agreements with their members. Loans
1/   In Areas of Mass Infection the farmer is required to clear a cordon
sanitaire of 30 meters at a cost of N 15.75 per acre, or N 63 for an
average farm. These farmers would therefore be eligible for additional
credit up to N 63,000, over and above the renlanting credit.



-25 -
would be dlisbursed in kind and in cash by the Project Units in coordination
with the societies and branches to which project participants belong. Project
participants would market their cocoa through their societies, and branches
and the loan agreement between each participant and his society or branch
would entitle the latter to deduct loan repayments from the participant's
cocoa sales proceeds.
7.16      The project unit staff would include loan officers experienced in
agricultural lending activities, seconded from the respective credit institu-
tions. They would be primarily responsible for appraising the creditworthiness
of project participants and ensuring that individual loan agreements are signed
with the respective societies and branches before credit is disbursed. Farm-
ers' loan agreements would make provision for settlement of outstanding loans
by the inheritors of a deceased participants' farm, and would also stipulate
that loans would become payable immediately if the participant ceased to be
a member of the society or branch through which he was given a loan. It would
be a condition of disbursement of the respective farmer loan categories of
the proposed Bank loan that the Western State Government had entered into a
subsidiary loan agreement with the Cooperative Trust and ACC and the Mid-Western
State Government had entered into a subsidiary loan agreement with CFS. The
subsidiary loan agreements should be satisfactory to the Bank and cover the
terms and conditions of Government on-lending to these institutions, and the
terms and conditions of on-lending to societies and to project farners. In
addition, the subsidiary loan agreements would provide for the disbursement
of approved loans to participants to be made by the project unit.
C. Staffing
7.17      Key positions at CDU and TCU head offices would be filled Iby suit-
ably qualified and experienced staff, recruited internationally, if necessary.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that initial
appointment to the posts of Project Managers, Deputy Project Managers,
Controllers of Field Operations, Financial Controllers, Senior Credit Officer
and the Heads of the Road Sections and the terms of reference and conditions
of employment of these officials would be mutually acceptable to the Governments
and the Bank. The Project Manager, Deputy Manager, Financial Controller and
Senior Credit Officers of CDU have already been appointed with Bank approval.
Nigeria has a very adequate system of training agriculturalists at professional
degree, and sub-professional diploma and certificate levels, and no problems
are anticipated in obtaining adequate numbers of professionally qualified
staff.



- 26-
VIII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BUDGETS
AND GOVERNMENT BENEFITS
A. Yields and Outputs
8.01      Trials in the project area with hybrid cocoas have yielded over
2,000 lb/ac at maturity. Because of the large number of farmers involved
in both projects, substantial variations in farm management standards and
vields are inevitable. Thus, it is estimated that new farms planted under
the project would yield an average of 850 lb/ac from the seventh year after
planting, and that replanted farms would average about 750 lb/ac. Both
replanted and new cocoa would begin yielding in the fourth year after
planting, and yields would increase progressively up to the seventh year
after which it is assumed that they would remain stable. After 1983
plantings made under the two Bank financed projects in Nigeria (764-UNI
and the proposed loan) would produce about 41,000 tons of cocoa annually
valued at about US$50 million in foreign exchange, at the projected
world price of US161/lb (in 1980) see para 8.03. Further details on yields
and production are at Annex 2.
8.02      Food Crops.  The majority of farmers would plant some plantain and
cocoyams as temporary shade for their cocoa. These crops would be a source
of food and, in some cases  cash income to the farmer.  However, because of
the extreme variation between the practice on different farms and listance
from markets it would be,highly speculative to estimate either average pro-
duction per farm or average cash income from this source. Consequently, no
account is taken of this benefit in the economic rate of return calculation.
B.  Markets and Prices
8.03      World production of cocoa is now about 1.5 million tons.  From the
mid-1940's to the end of the 1950's, the world cocoa situation was characterized
by short supplies and relatively high prices. The latter encouraged technical
improvements and new plantings, and as a result an excess supply situation
developed which was reflected by comparatively low prices in the 1960's.
In turn these low prices restrained expansion of production and in recent
years the cocoa market has tended to move back to a short supply situation.
Consequently average prices have risen from US^32.3/lb in 1972 to US464.7/lb
in 1973. Current prices are aroundJUSM9O.0/lb (Feb/March 1974). These high
prices have caused concern in the trade that large scale substitution of
cocoa butter 1/ with cheaper materials will occur. The Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projections Division anticipates that by 1980, world cocoa demand
and supply will be in t ...ance and that the world price would be US161/lb,
Accra Spot New York 2.. 
1/ The valuable component of the cocoa bean.
2/   The World Cocoa Market - Review and Outlook for Bank Lending (R74-36).



- 27 -
8.04      International Cocoa Agrement.  An International Cocoa Agreement
became effective in mid-1973 to cover an initial period of three years.
The main objectives of the Agreement are to prevent excessive fluctuations
in the price of cocoa, and to help stabilize and increase the cocoa export
earnings of producing countries, while taking account the consumers' interests
of importing countries. Signatories account for 93% of cocoa producing and
70% of cocoa consuming countries. The Agreement aims at maintaining daily
selling prices for cocoa within a 23-32 USU/lb range through export quotas
and the manipulation of buffer stocks. The total basic quota for all pro-
ducers in 1973/74 is 1.58 million tons, of which Nigeria has been allocated
19.5X or 307,800 tons. A buffer stock of 250,000 tons is to be established
which will be operated by the Agreement's Secretariat. Cocoa will be bought
in when world prices fall to the lower limit of a pre-determined range, and
sales made when prices reach the upper limit. Stock financing would be
initially through a US41/lb levy to be paid by cocoa exporting countries;
the IMF also has agreed that its buffer stock financing facilities could be
used. More details on the Agreement are in the Bank's cocoa paper. 1/ It is
anticipated that the Agreement will improve the earnings of producing countries
in the long run, and that it should not limit Nigeria's capacity to maintain
its share of the world market 2/. However with the present prevailinlg high
prices of cocoa, the Agreement has been largely inoperative. Funds were not
available to purchase buffer stocks and the range outside which the cocoa
Agreement will operate on the market are to be reviewed during the first half
of 1974.
8.05      During the 32nd Session of the Sub-group on Statistics of the
Intergovernmental Group on Cocoa held in April 1973, FAO experts recommended
that the Bank should proceed with its proposed lending program for cocoa
projects in view of the optimistic price forecasts for the 1980's and
subsequent years. The Secretariat of the FAO Intergovernmental Group on
Cocoa confirmed that prospects for cocoa are good. They expect world consump-
tion to expand significantly during this decade, and while believing that
production would also increase think that it would be unlikely to expand
sufficiently to upset equilibrium between supply and demand to an extent
where surplus would tend to depress prices significantly.
C. Farmers Benefits
8.06      Estimated farm budgets for new planting and replanting are at
Annex 9. They are based on the credit terms outlined in Chapter VII and on
the current producer price of N 400/ton, see para 3.11.
1/   The World Cocoa Market - Review and Outlook for Bank Lending (R74-36).
2/   See T.A. Kofi, "Simulation of the 1968 Draft International Cocoa
Agreement" in Food Research Institute Studies, Stanford University,
California, Vol. XI, 1972.



- 28 -
8.07      New Planting.  Making allowances for hired labor (Annex 9, Table 1),
annual net income to the farmer from 4 acres during the debt servicing period
Year 6 througih Year 12 ranges from N 70 (US$106) to N 330 (US$500) when interest
is capitalize(l. Debt servicing over the 7 years would account for about 30
percent of net return. From Year 13 onwards net income to the farmer would
be N 440 (US$669) after deducting N-44.0 for hired labor. This is equivalent
to N 110 (US$167) per acre which is about two and half times the present
estimated average net income of N 43 per acre obtained by cocoa farmers in
Nigeria (see para 4.04). At maturity when debt service is completed the
average return per manday (MD) for family labor employed in operating the
farm, after paying hired labor, would be about N 3.23 or US$ 4.91 which is
more than three times the official wage rate.
8.08      Replanting.  Allowing for payment of hired labor (Annex 9, Table
2), annual net income to the farmer from 4 acres during the debt servicing
period Year 8 through Year 13 ranges from N 33 (US$50) to N 254 (US$386)
when interest is capitalized. Debt servicing over the 6 years would account
for about 40 percent of net returns. From Year 14 onwards net income to the
farmer would be N 381 (US$579) after deducting N 44.0 for hired labor. This
is equivalent to N 95 (US$145) which is more than double the present average
net income of N 43 per acre obtained by cocoa farmers (see para 4.04). At
maturity the average return per manday (MD) employed in operating the farm
would be about N 2.80 or US$ 4.26 which is almost three times as high as the
official wage rate.
D. Impact of Project on the
Governments' Fiscal Situation
8.09      State Government revenues from the project would comprise export
taxes and surpluses accruing to the Marketing Board and loan interest paid
by the Cooperative Trust, ACC and CFS. In addition to project costs the State
Governments would pav financial charges on the Bank loans. State Governments
would continue to provide farmers witlh extension services and import subsidies
after the project development period. FMG onlends the Bank loan to the States
together with additional grants. During the project period FMG runs a deficit
equal to its grants, thereafter Payment to the Rank by FMG equals repayment
of loan Dlus interest by the States to FMG. Based on the present marketing
structure, the financial. position of the Western State Government is satis-
factorv. 8v 1PS0/81 the cumulative cash deficit totals N 7.2 million (US$
10.9 million), which is recovered by 1986/87; thereafter the nroject is in
surplus.  Tn the case of the Mid-West State, the financial position is not
satisfactory, as the cumulative cash deficit rises to N 2.0 million (US$3.0
million) and remains at about this level until the end of the loan repayment
Period. This is due mainlv to the small size of the planting program and the
disproportionatelv large overheads of TCU (also responsible for other tree
crop projects). However, -he present marketing organizations are under review
and the proposed changep could adverselv affect the surpluses accruing to the
State Governments.                                                                         _



- 29 -
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
9.01      The project's principal benefit would be the increase in income
of some 27,000 cocoa farmers and thus the betterment of the standard of
living of about 170,000 members of cocoa farm families. The project would
permit Nigeria to retain its present share of the world cocoa market, and
to increase its foreign exchange earning from cocoa. It is estimated that
with a world market price of USf61/lb in 1980, the Western State project
would generate annually about US$26.0 million in net foreign exchange
earnings, and the Mid-Western State about US$4.5 million. Also, the project
would continue the process initiated under the first cocoa project of
developing competent integrated agricultural support services capable of
demonstrating and ensuring the adoption of improved agricultural techniques.
Such services are essential if Nigeria is to meet its rapidly growing food
and industrial crop needs. In addition, agricultural credit institutions
and farmers' organizations would be strengthened, and communications improved
in the project areas.
9.02      The economic rates of return for the projects are estimated at
25% and M9% for the Western and Mid-Western States respectively. Important
assumptions used in computing these rates of return are:
a.   an Accra Spot New York price of USJ44.4/lb in terms of
1974 dollars equivalent to US161/lb in 1980;
b.   a shadow wage rate (SWR) equal to 65% of the official
wage rate (official wage rate being N1.00);
C.   a shadow rate for foreign exchange of N 1 = US$1.27
compared to the official rate of N 1 = USS1.52; and
d.   the costing of all family labor at the shadow wage rates.
The calculations and assumptions are in Annex 2.
9.03      A detailed sensitivity analysis is in Annex 2, the results of which
are summarized below:
Costs         Benefits                        Rate of Return
Western State Mid-Western State
100             100                       25              19
100              90                       22              17
110             100                       23              17
110              90                       20              15
120             100                       21              16
120              90                       18              13



- 30 -
The economic rates of return are relatively insensitive to increases in costs
and decreases in benefits. If the average 1973 cocoa sale price of USJ64.7/lb
is substituted, then the rate of return is 35% in the Western State and 27%
in the Mid-West State. A 20% cost increase would reduce these rates to 30%
and 23% respectively. Without shadow pricing labor the rate of return at
projected prices would be 21% for the Western State and 16% for the Mid-Western
State. A 10% increase in costs would reduce these rates to 19% and 14%
respectively. The lower returns for the Mid-Western project reflect the
higher management costs per unit inherent in the diseconomies of its smaller
cocoa development program and the slower pace of development envisaged.
9.04      As the project contains no measures to improve the social infra-
structure, such as health, education and public utilities, no direct social
benefits can be claimed for the project. Such components have been excluded
deliberately from the project on the grounds that the cocoa areas are better
served in these fields than any other part of Nigeria, both by Government
agencies and private organizations.
9.05      In addition to providing additional income opportunities for
27,000 farmers in the cocoa belt, who otherwise would be faced with declining
income, the project also would provide, at full development, labor employment
opportunities equivalent to more than 2,000 man-years annually.
X. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1(.(1     Assurances were obtained from the Federal and State Governments
on The following principal points:
(a) the policy of subsidizing agricultural inputs related to the
cocoa production would be reviewed from time to time (para 3.10);
(b) ACC and the proposed WSFU agency would be funded and staffed in
forms satisfactory to the lank before their participation in the
project (para 3.20);
(c) the Federal and State Governments would enter into subsid-
iary loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, providing
for the on-lending of the Bank loan to the State Governments
and for the granting of additional funds from the Federal
Government to the State Governments (para 6.04 and 6.05);
(d) subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank would
he signed between the Western State Government, the
Cooperative Trust, and ACC, and between the Mid-Western
State Government and CFS (paras 6.07, 6.08, 7.15);



- 31 -
0
(e)  in Western State CDU would be responsible for management
of the project and would be expanded to permit it to execute
the road component of the project (para 7.01 and 7.07);
(f)  TCU would manage the Mid-Western State project and would be
established with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank. It would also execute the road program (paras 7.01
and 7.07);
(g)  the Western State project coordinating committee would be
expanded, and a similar Steering or Coordinating Committee
established in the Mid-Western State with membership and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (paras 7.09
and 7.10); and
(h)  initial appointment to the posts of Project Managers, Deputy
Project Managers, Controllers of Field Operations, Financial
Controllers, Senior Credit Officers and Heads of the Road sections
and the terms of reference and conditions of employment of these
officials, would be mutually acceptable to the Government and
the Bank (para 7.17).
10.02     Effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan would be conditional upon
the Federal and State Governments having entered into the loan agreements
referred to in para 10.01 (c), and upon the establishing of TCU (para 10.01
(f)), the appointment of TCU's manager and Cocoa Division Head (para 10.01 (h))
and the establishment of a steering and coordinating committee (para 10.01 (g)).
10.03     Conditions of disbursement of the proposed Bank loan to either one
of the States would be that the State had complied with, or given the
appropriate assurances; called for under paras 10.01 (d).
10.04     With the above assurances the project is suitable for a US$20.0
million loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MARKETING BOARDS AND COCOA MARKETING
Background
1.        Until 1939 exports of cocoa and other crops were made by expatriate
commercial firms who had agents and buying stations in the crop producing
areas. To correct deficiencies in the then existing marketing system, and
to ensure the delivery of essential commodities during the war period, the
British Government established statutory marketing organizations with an
export monopoly of all essential crops from Nigeria. An Agency - the West
African Produce Control Board - was also established in the United Kingdom
for the purposes of handling the marketing of these essential commodities
during the period 1939-1945.
2.        Early in 1947 a draft Nigerian ordinance was prepared to establish
a Nigerian Cocoa Marketing Board and an advisory Committee to guide the Board.
A bill was prepared and after consideration and amendment in the regional
houses of Assembly, it was presented to and passed by the Legislative Council
in August 1947. The resulting law, known as the Nigerian Cocoa Marketing
Board Ordinance, was brought into effect on September 6, 1947, as Government
Order No. 1257. This ordinance made the Nigerian Cocoa Marketing Board the
sole purchaser of all cocoa produced in Nigeria for export, and it empowered
the Board to purchase such cocoa at prices fixed by it and approved by the
Covernment.  In the same year the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company Ltd.,
was formed and incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act
of 1929. This firm was located in London since it was anticipated that the
organization would handle sales abroad of vegetable oils and oils seeds as
well as cocoa.
3.        In 1953, at the London Conference on the Ni.gerian Constitution,
it was decicled that the existing commodity marketing boards should be
regionalized. Recommendations were made that:
(a)  existing commodity marketing boards which operated on a country-
wide basis and handled a single commodity or group of commodities,
should be replaced by a single 'all-purpose' marketing board for
each region and be made responsible for all the purchasing arrange-
ments within the region and for price stabilization, research and
development policy;
(b)  a central boardl witlh executive powers relating to the prescription
of grades, callinig forward for export, shipment and overseas sales
of produce on behalf of the regional marketing boards should be
established.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
At the same time, the constitutional conference decided that reserves of the
former commodity boards should be distributed to the regional marketing boards
on the principle of origin of produce.  Accordingly, an initial provisional
distribution of E 25 million was made to the Western Nigeria Marketing Board
(TNMB) whose area of operations included what is now the Mid-Western State.
4.        The Marketing Board Law was enacted by the Legislature of the
Wcstern Region in September 1954, and the board came into legal existence
in October of the same year. In 1955, the Nigerian Central Marketing Board
was legally established. The main functions, responsibilities, and powers
of the Central Marketing Board were the following:
(a) to arrange for export, shipping and sale of produce;
(b) to prescribe grades and standards of quality of produce
purchased by the regional marketing boards for export;
(c) to pturchase produce from the regional marketing boards
for export and sale;
(d) act as the agent of the regional marketing boards for the
export and sale of produce.
5.        In 1957, the conference to review the Nigerian constitution
considered the future of the Nigerian Central Marketing Board and other
matters concerning the statutory structure for handling export produce.
The conference decided that both the Nigerian Central Marketing Board and
its overseas selling organization, the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company,
Ltd. (NPMC), should be abolished. Functions performed by these two bodies
woul(d be allocated among;
(1) the regional marketing boards, and
(2) a company to be called Nigerian Produce Marketing Company,
Ltd., Lagos (i.e. incorporated in Nigeria).
Estiblishment of NPMC (Lagos) and the other changes mentioned above became
effective October 1958. During the 1960/61 marketing season, NPMC's
operations were revised to permit the sale of marketing board produce
from Lagos as well as London. Thus, foreign buyers were given the option
of buying either on a cif, or fob, basis. The Company's practice of
concluding sales contracts only through intermediaries in London was also
discontinued. Sales were henceforth made on a net price basis, effective
December 1, 1961. During the 1962/63 marketing year, the London office of
NPMC was closed and all sales functions were handled from the Lagos office.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Western Nigeria Marketing Board (WNMB)
6.        WINB was established by law as a corporate body with perpetual
succession. The Board consists of a Chairman plus not less than seven nor
more than ten members who are appointed by the Minister (or by the Military
Governor). The Chairman holds office for 5 years from his date of appoint-
ment and members serve for three years, all being eligible for re-appointment.
As now constituted the Board has its own executive committee anid in opera-
tional matters functions autonomously.
7.        In 1963, the Mid-Western Marketing Board was established on the
same pattern as its parent organization, the WNMB.  Part of WNMB assets
were allocated to the new Marketing Board and a new law (Edict No. 1, 1972
dated November 4, 1971) was issued in 1972 to accommodate the particular
needs of the Mid-Western State marketing system.
8.        The lMarketing Boards are charged by law with the following main
functions and responsibilities:
(a) marketing the States' main export crops, namely Cocoa, Palm
Kernels, Palm Oil, Seed Cotton, Lemons and Grapefruit;
(b) appointing Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) to perform on the
Board's behalf the purchase, grading, storage and evacuation
of the produce to port of shipment;
(c) fixing producer prices at the beginning of each produce season
an entire crop-year and the building of reserve funds for
stabilizing these producer prices in time of low market prices;
and
(d) providing assistance to the producing industries for the benefit
and prosperity of the people of the States.
Cocoa Buying
9.        The Matrketing Boards are responsible for marketing the main export
crops of the respective States, and for securing the most favorable arrange-
menits for the purchase and evacuation to port of these commodities.  The
Board appoints Licensed Buying Agents (LBA) who are responsible for the
purchase, grading, storage and evacuation of the produce to port where it
is exported and shlpped by the Nigerian Producer Marketing Company Limited
(NPMfC).  LBAs are paid a Block Buying Allowance to cover the purchiase price,
the cost of evacuating produce and a-remuneration fee. The main functions
cocoa LBAs are required to perform on behalf of the Board are:
(a) to purchase cocoa at gazetted buying stations at no less than
the minimum fixed prices;



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(b)  to bag and arrange for cocoa inspection in accordance with the
regulations;
(c) to finance cocoa purchases and provide suitable storage until
the time of evacuation to port;
(d) to make ,returns of purchases and stocks as the Board or its
duly authorized executive may require; and
(e) to arrange for conveyance and delivery of cocoa to Boards'
stores according to their instructions which may be issued
from time to time by the Boards' executive.
The agents of the Boards are supervised by their own inspectors.
10.       The annual producer price is jointly determined by the States'
Marketing Boards with the approval of the States' Government Executive
Council and the Federal Ministry of Finance; and with the agreement of
the Bank of Nigeria who finances the Marketing Board operations. Before
each buying season opens the Boards announce the price per long ton to be
paid at all buying stations. The producer price remains fixed for the
entire season regardless of fluctuation in world market prices. The Boards
maintain inspectors in the field to ensure that producers receive at least
the official minimum price.
11.       The Western and Mid-Western Boards pay LBAs a block allowance, at
present N 26.73 per long ton (for breakdown see Table 1) to cover all
expenses of handling cocoa from buying points up to loading for transportation
to port of shipment. Transport costs from local stores to port stores are
not included in the allowance as they are paid directly by the Board. The
block allowance includes a commission of N 2.10 and a N 5 renumeration.
Sources of Funds for Financing Cocoa Purchases
12.       LBAs are responsible for financing cocoa purchases and raise the
required funds by borrowing from commercial banks while cooperative unions
obtain their funds from the Cooperative Bank. Interest rates charged to
LBAs by commercial banks vary between 8% and 10% depending on creditworth-
iness, and the Cooperative Bank interest rate to Unions is slightly less.
The agents are liable for losses in quality and quantity.
13.       LBAs take title to farmers produce immediately after purchase
and retain it until the product is graded by the Produce Inspection Division,
when thev receive a certificate of acceptance. Once graded, the cocoa
autnaticallv becomes the propertv of the Board and LBAs can collect the
declared value.  Pavment of the block buying allowance, and any other allow-
able expenses are made upon acceptance of the graded cocoa at Apapa or Ikeja
ports of shipment.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
14.       Prior to the 1967/68 season the Boards obtained credit facilities,
for the purchiase and evacuation of cocoa to port of shipment, from a consor-
tium of commercial banks. Thereafter, all Marketing Boards were required
by law to obtain such funds only from the Central Bank of Nigeria. Credit
facilities of between N 30 million and N 40 million are made available each
year in the form of bills which are financed at a discount rate of 6 percent
against the pledging and registration of forward sale contracts by the NPMIC
with the Central Bank. Bills are drawn by the Board early in the season to
finance purchases and movement of cocoa through its licensed buying agents
from September/October through March. From April through July NPMC makes
repayments to the Central Bank from its forward sales proceeds and borrow-
ings are always fully repaid before the commencement of the following
season.
15.       For overseas sales and cocoa shipments NPMC incurs certain direct
charges such as export duty, wharfage, lighterage, shipping, insurance and
certain costs at ports of discharge and retains some 25% of the sales price
to cover these.
Taxation - Revenue to Government
16.       Before the proposed reorganization of the Marketing Board system
(see para 21) export duties of 15% were payable on a cocoa fob price of
N 300 per ton, increasing by 1% for each additional N 20 rise in fob price
up to a maximum of 20%. Duties are payable by NPMC on behalf of the State
Boards and are repaid in total to the State from which the produce originated.
In addition, each State used to levy a sale tax of N 8 per ton which was
deducted by the LBAs from the purchase price.
17.       Cocoa sales totalled about 225,000 tons in 1971/72 and total ex-
port duty accruing to the Western State Government on an average fob price
of N 535/ton was some N 24 million. The sale tax represented an average
N 1.6 million annually. In the Mid-Western State, the average annual cocoa
exports of some 10,500 tons (1968-1971) produced export duties of about
N 184,000 per annum and sale taxes totalling N 841,000. Export duty and
sales tax represented about 50% of the Western State Government current
revenue in 1971/72 and 7% in the Mid-Western State.
18.       In addition to the various taxes collected by the Marketing Boards,
the State Governments are allocated Dart of the trading surpluses accruing
to the Boards. From 1954 to 1970, the Western State (then Regional) Govern-
ment was given N 152.6 million (US$214 million) representing an annual aver-
age of about N 9.6 million (US$13.4 million) of whlch 80% resulted from
cocoa operations. From 1963 to 1970, the Mid-Western Government was allo-
cated N 2.6 million or about N 360,000 per annum, 50% of which was attribut-
able to cocoa. In sutnmary the average annual revenues to the two Governments
from cocoa for the period 1964-1969 was as follows:



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Western State   Mid-Western State
-----       N '000       
Export Duty                             12,000                840
Sales Tax                                1,700                 40
Appropriation from Marketing
Boards (1966-1970)                     7,700                180
21,400              1,060
% of Total Revenue                      ± 30%               ± 20%
19.       In addition to this contribution to Government operating expenses,
the Marketing Boards have been assisting in the financing of the agricultural
research institutes (CRIN and NIFOR). Details are given in Tables 5 and 8.
Conclusions on the Marketing Board Cocoa Operations
20.       During the period 1966 - 1970, the Marketing Boards were successful
in making cocoa sales abroad, obtaining consistently fob average prices repre-
senting more than 90% of the New York spot price. Their operating costs,
which represented some 5% of the fob value, are reasonable. The Marketing
Boards seem to have achieved the targets set by the overall Marketing Board
system for cocoa operations with a reasonable degree of efficiency. However,
since 1970, no financial statements have been issued and the financial sit-
uation of the Marketing Board is reported to have deteriorated significantly
with losses amounting to some N 30 :o N 40 per ton of cocoa for the year 1972.
21.       In early 1973, the FGN announced important reforms of the Marketing
Board system including a reduction in duty payable on cocoa to a flat 10% of
the fob value, the transformation of NPMC into a Federal Agency with respon-
sibilities for annual financing of rational producer prices and the reduction
of revenue collection through the Marketing Board. The legislation to en-
force this is still awaited, but in the meantime it has already been announced
that the cocoa producer price for the period October 1973 to October 1974 will
be ?I 400/ton, compared to N 302/ton previously paid to producers.



ANNEX 1
T h'Ic 1
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE LBA BUYING ALLOWANCES
1972-1973 CAMPAIGN
N/long ton
(1)       Producer Price                               310.00
(2)       Sales Tax                                       8.00
(3)       Net Producer Price                            302.00
(4)       Finance Charge (0.1 ."' on item 3'              0.30
(5)       Insurance Premium (0.145% on item 3)            l.!l
(6)       Overheads - Variable                            h.ol
Fixed                              4 * 
(7)       Middlemen Corrmission                           2.10
(8)       Return on working capital
(5.75% p.a. for 8 weeks on itemns 3-7)       2.78
(9)       LRA's Remuneration                              5.00
Sub-total              20.73
(10)       Bag allowance                                   6. O
LBA Buying Allowance                26.73
1/ Expressed in Naira.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
NIGIERIAL 
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
NIGERIA AND Wl)ED PRODUCTION OF COCOA
1950/51   1972/73
(Thousand long tons)
Cocoa Year 1/   Nigeria          World             Nigeria
i950/5i          110             799            13.8
1951/52          115             635            18.1
1952/53          105             784             13.L,
1953/54           98             759             12.0
1954/55           85             788             10.8
1955/56          107             823             13.1
1956/57          131             881             14.9
1957/58           76             764              9.9
1958/59          13h             891            15.(
1959/60          1h9           1,02h             14.6
1960/61          186           1,156            16.1
1961/62          191           1,124            17.0
1962/63          176           1,155            15.2
1963/64          216           1,191            18.2
1964/65          29h           1,h90            19.7
1965/66          182           1,205            15.1
1966/67          263           1,329            19.8
1967/68          23h           1,329            17.c
1968/69          189           1,199            15.8
1969/70          217           1,405            i5.1
1970/71          303           1,141            20.6
1971/72          255           1,53L             16.7
1972/73 4/       236           1,397            16.E
1973/74 )4/rV    219           1,421
1/ October - September.
2/ Cocoa Statistics Bulletirn, FAD, Various Issues.
3/ About 95% -roduced in the Western. State.
Source: FAO Intergovernmental wroup on cocoa,
docunent CCP: EC/Sr n.overnmber 1973.
5/ Forecast.



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
COCOA EXPORT, VALUE. AVERAGE PRICES AND CONTRIBUTION TO FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS
1958 - 1972
Average                                                              Cocoa Export as
Cocoa    FOB Value of           Export      Average World Market       Average         Total Value  a Percentage of
Year  Exports   Cocoa Exported         Price (FOB)      Price f£)r Cocoa    Producer Price      of Exports    Total Exports
('000     (LN millions)    (bN/l.t)  (USW/lb)    (USe/lb)          (bN/l.t)  (US#/lb) (NE millions)
l.tons)
1958     -            26.9          -           -           44.3            150.0      18.75      135.6              19.8
1959     -            27.5          -           -           36.5            150.0      18.75      163.6              17.1
1960     -            22.9          -           -           28.5            160.0      20.00      169.2              13.5
1961     -            32.2          -           -           22.o            160.0      20.00      173.5              18.4
1962     -            32.4          -           -           21.1            100.0      12.50      168.6              18.9
1963     -            36.6          -           -           25.4            105.0      13.13      189.5             1A. .
1964     200.0        40.1.       200.5         25.06       23.4            110.0      13.75      214.5              18.7
1965     305.6        42.5        139.7         17.46       17.2            120.0      15.00      268.4              15.1
1966     193.2        28.2         146.0        18.25       24.4             65.0       8.13      283.1               9.9
1967     248.2        54.7         220.4        27.55       29.0             90.0      11.25      243.1              22.6
1968 1/  208.8        51.7         247.6        30.95       34.4             95.0      11.88      210.8              24.2
1969 T/ 173.6         52.5         302.4        37.80       45.7            100.0      12.50      323.2              16.2
1970     195.9        66.5         339.5        42.43       34.2            150.0      18.75      442.7              15.0
1971     271.7        71.6         263.5        32.93       26.8            155.0       19.38     640.4              11.2
1972     224.0        50.6         225.9        28.24       32.3            155.0/2    21.03      701.0               7.2
1/ Excludes the three Eastern States.
2/  Ir. 1973 average producer price was £UT 200 (or Naira 400).
S  F a
Source:  FAO Cocoa Statistica.                                                                                                  -



INIGERIA
SECOND COCOA ?ROJECT
WEST9 STAT3 FMRKETITG BOARD
BALANCE SHEETS
(NL  000)
____'t  67                         196y           1v70
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Land                                                                315              315              315              315              315
Building                                                          2,137            2,936            3,411            3,300            3,230
Furniture and equipment                                              78              147              158              146              127
Motor Vehicles                                                      153              106              176              155               168
Investments                                                       2,683            3,504            4,o60            3,916            3,840
Lend and Building                                                 5,086            n.a.             5,109            n.a.             5,109
Portfolio                                                         1,924            n.a.             I,9214           n.a.             1,924
Loans and accrued interests                                       3,].02           n.a.             3,102            n.a.             3,102
10,112           10,135           10,135           10,135           10,135
Share Capital and Long-term Loans                               10,593            l,0o84          12,635           19,043           19,530
Current Assets
Mid-Western Marketing Board                                         _                 (4)              73                72               72
Stocks                                                            2,205            2,348            2,638            1,484            4,652
Sundry debtors                                                    1,547            3,236            6,740            4,930             8,658
Cash in hand and in Banks                                           930            1,676            1,312               404              831
4,682            7,256           10,763            6,890            14,213
TOTAL  ASSETS                                      28,070           31,779           37,593           39.985            47,718
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Sundry Creditors                                                 10,959            7,095            6,447            4,014             7,569
Bank Overdrafts                                                      63               10               48               774              485
Mid-Western Marketing Board                                       2,25 6..                                           n.a.                n.a.
13,287            7,105            6,495            4,788             8,054
Produce Reserve Accounts                                        310,360           20,1°l           26,948            3 3 T13          37,7142
Reserve Surplus                                                   4,423            4,283            4,150             2,094            1,922
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                   8,07c           31,779           37,59L            39,985           47.718
Mx
May 2 1  3                                                                                                                                                             5D



V
'5CN0D COCO A PA3OJEC T
WESTERN2 STAI'R MARK2TI;IG 30ARD
APPPRP?TAfIOH OF A       M1: fl'fl01TM     iOilERV. iiAUDUCO:i NSSaj  -C 
(Fii' 'co'0)
1566            16.1 71968                        196y             1970
-     (&st7Smtoc)       (Colmrated)
Annual Trsdtng Scocluses
Cocoa                                                            2,390           13,630           10,854           1!s, 404        13,159
?cLa Produce                                                     2,293            2,180            1,612             (188)             (36)
Cotton                                                                               (5                -               (7)
Others                                                              (3)              (3)              (2)              (f)             (1-2
Total Sucolu3cs                                          4,69          15, ,°r)c         l,i,;           14,4203           13, D61
Appropriation of Annu.l Prading Surol usses
To Western State (Regi on) Government                               3,698             ,615            4,349            6,068            5,00O
N A N R                                                            750              750              75(            1, 252             750
W. N. Agricultuiral Credit Corporation                              25              17-
Cocoa Research Institute (CRIN)                                    100              400              150              371              250
Cocoa Spraying Subsidy                                             417              548              542              328            1,506
Feedar ioad Program                                                  -                -                -                -              500
Institute for ,   e1 PE1n Research (MFOR)                          56,              56               56                -               56
Oil Palm Development Project (NAN?)                                  -                -               3c            n.a.               187
Other grants                                                        26              2c7               21                ci               24
Total Apprnopritiot;                                    5,072             ,77             5,907             6b,O4c           8,273
Net Surplvs after Appropriation                                   (39O)          10,031            6,557            6,155            4,788
Produce Rececx'e Accounts
CiumvLative Trading Surpluses   '61                               , 94C          (9,627            55,429          97,893          111,947
Cumulative Appropriation to
Western State (Regioni) OnGerrlocenr:                      41,311           45,009           48,624           52,973            59,041
M A N R                                                     7,992            8,742            9,492           10,242           11,494
W. N. Agricultural Credit Corporation                         300              325              500              500               500
Cocoa Research Institute (CRIN)                               599              699            1,099            1,249            1,620
Cocoa Spraying Subsidy                                      2,100            2,517            3,065            3,607            3,935
Special Road Program                                        1,0tO            1,000            1,000            1,000            1,000
W. S. Production Development Board                            350              350              350              350               350
Institute for Oil Palm Research (-NIFID)                      308              364              420              476               476
Oil Palm Development Project                                    -                -                -               39            n.a.
Others                                                        235              261              488              509               577
Total Cumulative Appropriation                          54,195           59,267           65,038           70,945           78,993
Per Produce Reserve Account  2/                                 10,750           10,360           20,391            26,948           32,954
Net Surplus of the year                                            (390)         10,031            6,557             6,155            4,788
PRODUCE RSSERVE ACCOUNT                                         10,360           20,391           u6,948            33,103           3i,742
1/  Froi 1954 to the end of toe  retvious year.
2/ At Wle end of the previous year.
May 9, 1973



NISGRIA
SSCOND COCOA P2OJECT
WESTPIS. STATE MAR KTI;NG BOARD
COCOA TRADING ACCOUNT
(it 13;'X)
19566 -5 267                      1968             1969              1970
Sales:  Volume (Tons)                                              (181,330)        ('47,767)        (217,597)         (157,913)        (179,520)
Value  (fob)                                                19,881           s46,516           1.4,l63           46,155           54,529
Less:   Export Duty                                                   2,289            6,525             6.924            8,319             9,436
Shi pping and handling                                          380              531              426              341               388
Net Sales Proceeds                                  18,212           39,460                             37,495           44.705
Purcbasns anc  Stock at October 13t                                  13,044           22,113           21,561            19,448           29,985
Buying   allowanrce (including bags)                                  2,308            2,950             2,618            2,166            2,705
Less Stock at Seotember 30th                                           (702) )                            (868) (53)                      (3.274)
Gross Income                                         31962           4 4              13.502             6               141289
As adjusted 31                                          -            15, 14               -            16,39                 -
7xpenditures
Bills Expenses, Interest and charges                                    !6(7             893            1,169               260              50,
Produce Inspection bC!3                                                                  118               112              110               135
Transport and Storage                                                   (49)             195            1,011             1,184            1,251
IFPNC Agency Charge                                                      73              148                94              250               57
Othe-rs                                                                 589              15, 2             261              187              184
Total Expenditures                                  1,172             1,511            2,647            1,991             2,129
THADING PROFIT (LOSS)                               2,390           13,630            10,855           14,404           13.160
Trading Profit (Loss)  (Nh/ton)                         13.18            56.37            49.88             76.65            73.31
Average Sale Value       (NE/toln)                     109.64           192.40           202.96            245.62           303-75
(UsW/lb)                      13.71             24.05            25.37             30.7C            37.97
Average New York Spot Price                             17.20            24.40            29.10             34.40            45.70
Average Sale Price as a % of the
New York Spot Price                                  80%               99%              87%               89%              83%
I/  Year ending September 30, 1966.
2/  Prevlous year.
3/  As ad4usted in the following year reports.
May 4, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table 7
NIGEIAL
-SMDOND COCOA PROJ2T
)ED-wEsTINR STATE MARKGETING BDARD
BALANOS SHEETS
1966            1967             1968  /          1969             1970
ASSETS
FiYed Assets
Buildings                                                                                                            107              263
Vehicles                                                            1                _                                 _                8
FPerituor  and JquipOenlt                                           3                2                                 1                2
2                               1               273
In-vestiseets
tJPM  shares                                                      383              383                               383              383
Ot.Ir inaesteents                                                    -               5                                20               31
Long te.-, deposits                                                  _               -                                89              491
I.o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-7                                        3M                               +      1          517
Cqrrent Assets
States                                                              42               4                                73              586
5undry Dectors                                                    168              124                               422              222
5WV0 Bserd                                                      2,271            2,241                             2,231            2,231
icso in hand and in Bark                                          400            1 945                               615              363
2.89           ti4 3,311                                          3,402
206AL ASSEIS                                            3,268            4.704                            4,062            4,631
LIAdILI  ES
Currnt I isbilitieo
Sassds7 Sreditors                                                   94           1,210                                98              195
vid-mlectsm  Stases                                              2,231           2,231                             2,231            2, 231
esIeteri NFIB                                                        -                -                               72               72
2,325           3,W4                              2,40i 24,
Grant from Westem  States                                         100              100              100              100              100
do ,'snue! Re3serves
tvens-ion Pon.d                                                 n.a.             n.e.                                  5                7
?rofit and Loss Appropriation
(FrDduce Raseis Account)                                        843            1 163                            1,556            2 026
843                                                                0 3 1
TOTAL lIABILITI3S                                       3,268            4,704                            4,062            4,631
1/  NDt available.
May 4, 173



3KCC''7D CrOOE   PROJECT
MID-JEST3EilN STATE MYIAETmNG SCA;i
A?EO?RtA l'b.O CF ANiMUAJ, 'OADUjIjCI SURP'LUSES AND PHODUCE RLS&RVE ACCOUNT
(: 'rE oo )
1 96t-,          1967              1968              1969              1970
Annual Trading Surmluses(Oeficit) -/
Cocoa                                                                 1D3              147'            n.a.                647               781
Palmn Produce                                                         323               125            n.a.                (328)              (13)
Ottlers (Cotton, ...)                                                                   -              n.a.                _
Total Surpluses                                              1422              600               859               31'9             768
Appropriation of Annual Trading Surpluses                                                                               (Ect4.mated) _/
To:  Mid-Wnestern State Government                                                      20n              -,0               300               202
Cocoa Research Institute (CRIN)                                                     5r               5°                50                So
Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR)                                             28               28                28                31
Cocoa Spraying Subsidy                                                               2               11                12                12
Cotton Spraying Subsidy                                                           -                 -                   I               -
Others                                                                            -                   2                 3                 3
Total Aopropriation                                                            280               391               394               298
Nlet Surplus ^fter appropriation                                               320               46e               (75)              1470
Produce Reserve Account
Comulative Trading Surpluses 2/                                                       1,261            1,B61              2,720            3,039
Cumulative Appropriation to
Mid-Western State Covernment                                                       250              450               750             1,050
Cocoa Research Institute (CRIN)                                                     96              146               196               246
NIFOQ                                                                               70               98               126               154
Cocoa Spraying Subsidy                                                             -                   2               13                25
Cotton Spraying Subsidy                                                            -                -                 -                   1
Others                                                                               2                 2                 I,               7
Total Cumulative Appropriation                                                 418               69 1, 089                       1, 483
Per Produce Reserve Account 31                                                     843            1,163             1,631             1,556
Net Surplus of the year                                                            320               468               (75)              470
PRODUCE R3SEiAVE ACCOUNT 41                                                    11,53                       2.026
Cocoa                                                          300            n.a.              n.a.              1,559
rpalrm Prodaea                                                 863            n.a.              n,a.                1467
HSi
1/  Ad3juted to 4nc.uide OPRO sxupous  (losses).                                                                                                                      CO
2 From 193 -i 964 to t+h  end oif lhe preylit yea".
3 t. 'he ean, o  t'he   'roun year.
r/   erBaarc  2lno    ,
2/,^con.  oi  -*ltl 



SECOIrD cOODA PROJECT
HITD-iWZhTSRN S77 V9S 1KSKETING BOARD
COCOA TR IDING ACCOUTJT
1/                      ~~~~~~~31
1966-            1967             1968             1969             1970
Sales:  Volume (tons)                                               7,172             8,274             -               7,509            9,726
Va2ue  (fob)                                                  810            1,611              _              1,892             2,911
Less:   Export duty                                                    100              231             -
Shipping costs                                                 10               10             -                 383              592
Net Sale Proceeds                                    700             1,370                             1,50o            2,319
Purchase and stock at October 1st -                                   484               756            -                  783            1,548
Buying allowance and jute tags                                          BR9            10.J            -                   19               29
Transport to port                                                   n.a.             n.a.                                  26               33
Stock as at September 30th                                               -              _                                  --              (5-)
Gross Income                                          127              510            -                  781              759
Expenditures
Produce inspection                                                       7               12                                15               12
Port storage and shipping charges                                    n.a.             n.a.                                  -                 6
1'PC Agency charges                                                                       3            -                    3                2
Arbitration charges                                                      -                                                                    - 5
Others                                                                   2               12                                 2                 7
Total expenditures                                     13               27            -                   25               27
TRADING PROFIT (LOSS)                                114               483            -                  656              732
Trading Profit (Loss) per ton (Nt)                     15.89            58.37         -                   87.36            75.26
Average sale value (N%/ton)                           112.93           194.70          -                 251.96            299.30
(uS,l Lb )                        15.32            26.hi2                             31.1P9           4o.61
Average New York Spot Price (US& lb)                   17.20            24.40          -                  34.40              5.70
Average selling price as a % of the
New York Spot Price                                 89%             108%                               99%               89%               D
1/ Year ending on September 30th.
2/ Previouls year.
3/ Not available.
October 26, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
RATE OF RETURN CALCULATION
1.        Table 1 shows the assumed yields and output of the project,3 and
Tahle 2 the calculation of the economic value of a ton of cocoa; the latter is
based on present and forecasted New York spot prices; Table 7 gives a break-
down of the prices used in the sensitivity analysis.  Tables 3 and 4 detail
the annual costs and benefits for the Western and Mid-Western State projects
respectively, and Tables 5 and 6 show the sensitivity of the project to chang-
es in future cocoa prices and project costs. The assumptions used in the above
calculations are discussed briefly below.
2.        The project life is assumed to be 30 years reflecting the expected
minimum life of cocoa trees established under the project. The first farms
planted under the project would come into bearing in the fourth year and
would produce benefits for 26 years; consequently, the benefits of the last
project plantings which would be made in year four would only be included
for 22 years. The project is assumed to have no residual value at the end
of 30 years.
3.        The on-farm costs reflect the per-acre costs given in Annex 7, Ta-
bles 4 and 5 which have been aggregated into 3 main components, labor, other
local costs, and foreign exchange costs. Hired labor is valued at the official
wage rate of N 1.00 per manday.
4.        Project administration and investment costs are detailed in Annex
7, 'Fables 7 to 9 and 11 to 13. The component of the Project Monitoring and
Analysis Unit (PMAU) 1/ cost attributable to the cocoa projects (25%)
has been apportioned between Western and Mid-Western States on an acreage
basis. The remaining 75% of PMAU costs are assumed to be borne by other
planned tree crop projects including the oil palm and rubber projects. In
the case of the Mid-Western State cocoa project, one third of the 3enin TCIJ
headiquarters cost has been allocated to the cocoa project, and one third to
eacti of the State's proposed oil palm and rtibber projects.
5.        The road program costs are derived from Tables 14 to 17 in Annex 7
and assume that labor represents 60% of local contract and maintenance costs.
The residual value of road construction equipment has been included as a pro-
ject benefit at the end of the road construction period; other benefits gen-
erated bv the road program are discussed at Annex 6, para 19 - 23.
1/   FMG intends to establish such a pnit to monitor tree crop projects for
which FMG provides finance.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Four main adjustments have been made to all direct costs:
(a) Hired labor and family labor have been valued at the
official wage rate of N 1.00/MD and shadow rated at
65%. The shadow wage rate reflects a weighted average
of economic wages in both peak and slack seasons.
(b)  The official exchange rate does not reflect exactly the
domestic value of a unit of foreign exchange because of
taxes and subsidies.  Because of this a shadow exchange
rate of N 1 =$1.27 had been applied instead of the offi-
cial rate of N 1 = $ 1.52, an estimated overvaluation of
the Naira of about 20%.
(c) The estimated tax component of project costs has been
deducted.
(d) A 5% physical contingency on all costs - except family
labor - has been applied for the project period (for
the Western State up to 1980/81 and for the Mid-Western
State up to 1981/82).
7.        The New York spot price of USi61/lb forecasted by the Bank's tconomic
Ana!ss.ts and Projections Department for 1980 has been discounted with the  Inter-
national inflation index 1/ to arrive at a constant 1974 price of !jSd44.4/1b.
Thus the numeraire for both costs ani benefits is the same.  At this price.
th,- economic value of project output is N 530/ton at the official exchange
rate and N 640/ton at the shadow rate. The latter has been used for economic
rate of return calculations.
8.        Replanting will require cutting down old cocoa trees.  Since these
trees are at or near the end of their productive lives, no adjustment has
been made to the benefit stream for loss of output resulting from their being
destroyed.
9.        The economic rates of return are 25% for the Western and 19% for
Mid-Western State projects respectively.  The lower returns of the Mid-Western
State reflect the higher management costs inherent in the diseconomies of
scale and the slower pace of development envisaged. In the sensitivity analy-
sis in Tables 5 and 6 cocoa prices of US$ 27.5 (midpoint present price range
cocoa agreement), 40.0 (10% underforecast), 44.4 (forecast), 48.8 (10% over
forecast) and 64.7 (average 1973 price) per lb in terms of 1974 US$ have been
cmplloyed.  Thie various rates of return are shown in Tables 5 and 6.
1l   1973 = 100, 1974 = 108.3 and 1980 - 148.8



.~~~~~~~~
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
YIELDS AND OUTPUTS
Year          1            2          3            4          5           6            7           8           9           10
Yield/ac (lbs) - New Planting               -           -           -           100         200        3            m          700
- Reolanting                  -           -           -           lO(        200        35°          550        6Uo          750         750 7!
1,74/75    1975/76     1976/77      1977/78     1978/79     1979/80     1980/81     1981/82     1982/83     1983/84     1984/85     1985/86      1986/87     1987/28/2
W25TEliN STATES
First Cocoa Prozect
New Planting                       -          134        415           952       1,896        2,940       4,138       5,175       5,859       6,261       6,261       6,261        6,261       6,261
Replanting                         -         112        53     1   1,391         2 862        4567        6,357       7 853       8,638         039                   9° 39                    9 039
Subtotal                                          946         2,343        ,5          7,57       10.495        13,02          7 15,300    15,30                       0 1 5,300       15,300
Second Cocoa Pro ect
New Planting                      _           _           -             94        355         1,210       2,196       3,491       4,977       6,048       6,868       6,868        6,868       6,868
Replanting                                                             219         940        3 009       5 439       8,55                   13 46G      14.699      14 699                   1
Subtotal                    -           -          -            313       1,295                                           7,69        19,508       221                     21,567      21,567
Total Western State
New Planting                       -         134        415         1,046        2,251        4,150       6,334       8,666      10,836      12,309      13,129      13,129       13,129      13,129
Replanting                        -          112         531         1 610      3 802         7,576      11,796      16,403      20.358      22  99      23.738       23.3383     23.738      23
Total                       -                                 826                     11,726      18,130      209         31,194      3808         3867       36,7T        36,867      36
MID-WESTEfN STATE
New Planting                       -           -          -             -           67          256         602       1,055       1,719        2,572       3,209       3,595       3,795       3,795
WESTERN AND KID-WESTERN STATES
First Cocoa Project
New Planting                       -         134         415           952       1,896        2,940       4,138       5,175       5,859       6,261        6,261       6,261       6,261       6,261
Replanting                         -         112         531         1,391       2862         4,567       6357        7 853       8,638        9 039       9 039       9iO2        2,3 99
Subtotal                    -                                 12,343                   77              _ 5                14,' 497     15t,30      1 ,3 Io H      8 0      15,300      1300
Second Cocoa Pro,ect
New Planting                       -          -           -             91        422        1,466       2,798       4,546       6,696        8,620      10,071      10,463      10,663      10,663
Replanting                                                             219         940        3,009       5439        8,550      11720        1360        14699       1461499
Subtotal                    _           _          _            313       1,362        4,475                  13,096                                                                       3 24,776  2
Total Both States
New Planting                       -          134        415         1,046       2,318        4,406       6,936       9,721      12,555       14,881      16,338      16,724      16,924       16,924
Replanting                         -         112         531         1,61O       3,802        7,576      11,796      16,403      20,358       22,499      23,738      23,738      23,738       23,738
GRAND TOTAL                      _        9           2           6           11.982      18,73      2 26.124      32.913 37.380           40.C76                      =2 :? i 2
/1  Yields are assumed to decline as from Year 30 in five years
/2  Output would start declining as from 2002 and phase out by 2012
October 15, 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 2
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
PRICE BREAKDOWN FROM SPOT NEW YORK TO PRODUCER PRICE
ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS AND PROJECT ECONOMIC VALUE OF COCOA
Percent of Projected
Current Price            Projected Price                 FOB Price
1972          1973        1974          1980           1973         1980
Spot New York            (US cents/lb)                    32.3  1/      64.7  2/   44.4  3/       61.0  4/         -            -
Spot New York            (US$/long ton)                  723.52      1,449.28      994.56      1,366.40            -            _
Insurance, freight
and marketing
efficiency  5/         (US$/long ton)                   72.35        114,93       99.46        t36.64            -
FOB Nigeria              (US$/long ton)                 651.17       1,304.35      895.10      1,229.76            -            -
FOB NigeriA              (N/long ton)                    428.40        868.13      588.88        809.05           100.0        100.0
Allocation of Proceeds
To Farmers
Producer price                                    310.00        400.00      400.00         600.00  6/
Sales tax                                          (8.00)         (8.00)       -             -
Net Producer                                      302.00        392.00       400.00        600.00           68.0          74.1
To LBI
Block buying allowance                             20.73          20.73       20.73         20.73             3.5          2.6
To Marketing Boards 11/
Transport to shipment                              10.95          10.95       10.95         10.95
Storage, handling and bags                         10.00          10.00       10.00         10.00
Finincial charges                                   4.20          4,20         4.20          4.20   )        4.8           3.6
Insurances  7/                                      0.75          1.50         1.03          1.42
Board overheads                                     2.80           2.80        2.80          2.80
Board surplus (deficit)                           (27.46)       225.57        69.37         67.12            11.8          8.3
Total to Marketing Boards                               1.24        255.02       98.35         96.49            16.6         11.9
To NPMC
Agency charges                                      3.00           3.00        3.00          3.00             -            -
Deterioration, inferior quality allowance           1.70           1.70        1.70          1.70             -            -
Shore handling                                      4.00           4.00        4.00          4.00             -            -
Sundries (fumigation, rebagging)                    0,02          0.02        0.02           0.02            -             -
Total to NPMC                                           8.72          8,72        8.72          8.72             1.5          1.1
To State Government
Export tax  8/  (% of FOB value)                   85.68        171.63        58.88         80.91             -            -
Produce inspection charge                           2.03          2.03         2.20          2.20
Producer sales tax  9/                              8.00          8.00        -
Total to State Government                              95.71       181.66        61.08         83.11            10.4         10.3
PROJECT ECONOMIC VALUE OF I TON OF COCOA  10/            368.22        797.20      528.25        748.03            89.7         92.5
1/ Average 1972
2/ Average 1973
3/  Price forecast 1980 of Commsolity Division deflated by projected inflation index of International
Econamy Division (1973 = 100; 1974 - 1C8.3; 1980 - 148.8
4/  Price Forecast 1980 of Commodity Division.
5/ On average from 1960 to 1970, the FOB value of cocoa in Nigeria represented about 90% of the
New fork spot price, and in the projected price a similar percentage is employed.
6/  Current producer price inflated by inflation index of International Economy Division gives N 595.20 say N 600.
7/ 0.175% of FOB value.
8/ 20% under current price, but in line with Government's policy a 10% tax factor has been applied to
projected price.
9/  Under Government policy sales and export tax will be combined in one tax, for which a 10%
factor has been applied.
10/  Sum of Producer Price, the Board surplus, the export and sales tax.
11/  Only estimates in the absence of financial statements on the Marketing Board since 1970.
March 21, 1974



NICERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE
Economic Rate of Return
(N  000)
1974/75      1975/76      1976/77       1977/78       1978/79      1979/80       1980/81      1981/82       1982/83       1983/84        '984/85        1985/86         1986787         1987/88 - 2003/4
Sn Farm Costs
Peolantiag                                             104.D        490.1      1,286.5       1,630.0         969.8        916.3       1,032.4      1,282.5       1518.5        1,874.7        2.261 8 R      7 6A 0          70 R0
of which:  Labor                                    92.2         374.1        972.7         979.4         559.7        406.2         344.8        272.3         360.0         493.4          529.2          535.1            535.1               535.1
LocFa  Costs                            11.8          68.9        178.1         286.8        130.7         158.3        221.1         317.1        370.1          447.4          559.1          604.9           604.9               604.9
Foreign Ea-h-bga Cosca                    -          47.1         135.7         363.8        271.4         351.8        466.5         693.1        788.4          933.9        1,173.5       1,264.8          1,264.8             1,264.8
New Plan-tig                                           131.8        292.9         903.0        428.2         313.4        399.1         526.6        621.4         763.6          935.3       1,011.3        1,052.9         1,052.9              1,052,9
Of ohich-  Labor                                     92.4        203.5        620.6         256.3         103.9         96.4         111.6        145.1         202.4         218.2          221.8          224.4           224.4                224.4
Local Costs                             19.2          41.5        131.1          61.0         64.7          88.8        130.2         152.0        181.8          231.6          256.0          269.7           269.7               269.7
Foreign Rachaogs Costs                  20.2         47.9         153.3         110.9        144.8         213.9        284.8         324.3        379,4          485.4          533.5          558.8           558,8               558.8
Road Pro-ram
Program                                             794.4        731.0        728.0         484.0                                      -            -              -             -                             -                         -
Msinc.anoco                                           _            _..                  _          1/    175.0         185.0         15.0        150.0         150.0          158.O          130.          150.5            13.O O150.0
Sub-Total                                          794.4         731.0        728.0         484.0         175.0        165.0         155.0        150,0         150.0         150.0          150.0                          130.0                150.0
Of which,  Labor                                    145.7        309.3         327.1        235.7         105.0         99.0          93.0         90.0          90.0           90.0           90.0           90.0            90.0                90.0
Local Coats                            201.3         231.1        230.6         139.2         35.0          33.0         31.0          30.0          30.0          30.0           30.0           30.0            30.0                 30.0
Foraign Eahnbnga Cost                  447.4         190.6        170.3         109.1         35.0          33.0         31.0          30.0          30.0          30.0           30.0           30.0            30.0                 30.0
8tafF and Ov-rhoad
Salarias                                            (14.4)       520.0      1,146.1         832.7         642.0        493.4         250.0        230.0         200.0          175.0         175.0          175.0           175.0                175.0
Buildinga                                           347.1          3.8           2.3          -                                                      --                          -              -              -               - _
Vah(clea                                            246.0        150.4         121.3         35.1          21.9         11.9           2.5           2.5          2.,            2.5            2.5            2.5             2.5                 2.5
Training                                             20.8         16.9          19.8          -      -                   -             -             -            -              -              -                      -                 -
Sprayers                                             34 0         72 9         124.4 
Opsoating Costa                                      17.0         39.5          97.2         90.5          70.6         43.5          37.8         30.0          28.0           25.0           25.0           25.0            25.0                25.0
Feder-l TCDU                                           -         109.5         109.2        109.3          99.6         90.7          82.0         87,5          55.8           33.8
Sub-Total                                          650.5         913.0      1,620.3       1,067.6         834.1        639.5         372.3        350.0         286.3          258.3          202.5         202.5           202.5                202.5
of whioh:  Loc-l Coats                              341.0        626.,       1,218.1        875.4         684.4        528.8         298.9        280.6         231.7          207.7          170.8          170,8           170.8               170.8
Foreign Enchanga Casts                 309.5        290.4         402.2         192.2        149.7         110.7         73.4          69.4          54.6          50.6           31.7           31.7            31.7                 31.7
TOTAL COSTS   2/                                     1,764.7      2,548.3       4,766.7      3,790.3       2,406.9       2,225.9      2,190.6       2,403.9      2,718.4        3,218.5        3,625.6        3,810.2         3,810.2             3,810.2
Of whioh:  Labor                                    346.8        931.2      2,016.4       1,544.9         807.0        631.8         576.8         507.4        652.4          801.9          841.0          849.5           849.5               849.5
Loo-l Rorst                            602.0       1,012.3      1,845.8       1,430.6        9hs8.9        849.3         715.3        779.7         813.6         916.7        1,015.9        1,07Y.4         1,075.4              1,075.4
Foreign REnhango Cocts                 815.9        604.8         904.5         814.8        631.0         744.8        898.5       1,116.8      1,252.4        1,499,9        1,768.7        1,885.3         1,885.3              1,885.3
FAMILY LABOR  ('000 Mandays)                           175,7         509.4      1,442.2      1,140.5         892.4         780.4      1,040.2       1,413.9      1,711.6        2,080.3        2,108.0        2,108.0         2,108.0             2,108.0
ECONOMIC COSTS
Lab-r                                               225.4        605.3      1,310.7       1,010.7         524.6        410.7         374,9         329.8        424.1          521.3          546.7          552.2           552.2                552.2
Faily Labor                                         114.2        331.1         937.4        741,3         580.1         50723        676.1         919.0      1,112.3        1,352.2        1,370.2        1,370.2         1,370,2             1,370.2
Local Costs                                         602,       1,012.3      1,845.8       1,430.6         968.9         849.3        715.3         779.7        813.6          916.7        1,015,9        1,075.4         1,075.4             1,075.4
Foreign Rxchangs Coat                               979.1        725.8      1,085.4         977.8         757.2        893.8       1,078.2      1,340.2       1,502.8        1,799,9        2,122.4        2,262,4         2,262.4             2,262v4
1,920.7      2,674.5       5,179.3      4,160.4       2,830.8      2,661.0       2,544.5      3,368.7       3,853.0        4,590.1        5,055.2        5,260.2         5,260,2             5,260.2
Loss:  Tanos                                       (122.0)      (121.0)       (159.8)        (92,9)       (54.1)        (39,2)       (23.5)        (22.1)        (20.3)        (18.1)         (18.1)         (18,1)          (18.1)               (18.1)
TOTAL                                                1.798.7      2.553,5       5.019.5      4,067.5       2,776.7       2,621.8      2,521,0       3,346.6       3.832.7       4,572.0        5,037.1        5,242.1         5,242,1              5,242.1
BENEFITS
Coco.   valued at N 640/t
New Planting                                             -             -            -            60.2         227,2        774.4      1,405.4       2,234.2       3.185.3       3,870.7        4,395.5        4,395,5         4,395.5              4,395.5
R.pl-ntin8                                               -           -             -            140.2        601.6       1,925.8      3,481.0       5,472.0      7,5001,        8,614.4        9,407,4        9 407 4         9,407.4              9,407.4
Tatal C.o.o                                              -             -            -           200.4         828.8      2,700.2      4,886.4       7,706.2      19,685.4      12,485.1       13,802.9       13,802.9        13,802.9             13,802.9
Benfits fro  REoad Program                               -            96.7        248.1         483.5        845.0          580.0       580.0         580,0         590.0          580.0          580.0          580,0           580,0               580.0
TOTAL                                                          96.7         290.1        683.9       1,673.8      3 280 2       5,466,4      6,8.         11,265.4       13,065.1       14,382.9       14,382.9,       14,32.9             14,382.8
RATE OF RETURN        25.45%
1/  Inloded order road vrogr-m
U/ Up to 1980/81 phyrical contingencies of 57 included.
3/  Inclndes r-sidoal volon of toad equipent at N 265,000.



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MID-WESTERN STATE
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(N 8 000)
1974/75      i975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81       1981/82      1987/R1       198R/94       1594(0;        1985/96         1986/87       1987;88 - 2003/04
On Farm  Coets                                                      94.2        213.6        271.4        332.3        212.1        214.0        265.8        343.8          414.5         487.7          546,8          571.6               581.8
Of which:  Labor                                      -         66.1        148.4        180.1         206.3         93.1         56.3         63.9         81.2          1S0.3         117.3          522.10? 43.44
Local Costs                                         6 17         30 .3        39.0         500 8         39.2         44'3         64.4         83.6          101.1         120.0          137.7          125.7 179:
Foreign Esohasga Costs                   -          14.3         34.9         52.3          7530         7988        10852        137 5        179.0          213.1         250.4         287 0           302 5               308.7
Road Program
Program                                           208.4        253.8          -            -             -            -            -            -            -              -             -              -              -
Maiotenon-e                                           -               1/      18.9         18.9         17.9         13.8         15.8         15.8          15.8          15.8          15.8           13.8           15.8                15.8
shb-Tetes                                         208.4        253.8         18.9         18.9 9        17.8         15.8         15.8         15,8         13.8           15.8          15.8           15.8           1518                15.8
Of vhich:  Labor                                   65.2        134.2         11.3          11.3         10.7          9.4          9.4          9.4           9.4           9.4           9.4            9.4            9.4                 9.4
Local CEsts                            48.9         65.2          3.8           3.8          3.6          3.2          3.2          3.2           3.2           3 2           3.2            3.2            3 2                 3.2
Foreign Eachasge Coats                 94.3         54.4          3.8          3.8           3.6          3.2          3.2          3.2          3.2            3.2           3.2            3.2            3.2                 3.2
Staff Overhead
Staff salaries sod ellowances                      60.6        128.8        187,1        211.6         229.7        177.7        118.1        104.7         92.0           80.0          70.0           70.0           70.0                70.0
Buildings                                          40.0         83.6          -             -            -            -            -            -             -             -             -              -              -                   -
Vehicles                                           23.4         42.9          16.8         30.2         43.2         13.7          9.0          2.1           2.5           2.5           2,5            2.5            2.5                 2.5
Treinino                                            e.s          0.5          0.6           0.7                       -                   -            -             -             -             -              -                           -
Sprayers                                            2.5          7.4          9.7          4.9           4.9
Op?e,tLOg Coats                                    10.5         18.6         22.4          23.9         24.2         21.6         18.0         12.2          10.0           7.5           5.0            5.0            5.0                 5.0
Federal TCDU                                         -          10.8         10.8         10.8           9.8          9.0          8,1          8.6          5.5            5.5
lob-Total                                         137.5        292.6        247.4        282,1         311.8        220.0        153.2        127.6        110.0           95.5          77.5           77.5           77.5                77.5
Of which:  Local Costs                             96.9        208.2        193.2        219,0         237.7        180.4        123.1        106.6          92.1          80.1          66.2           66.2           66.2                66.2
P,reign Eachasgo Costa                 40.6         84.4         54.2         63.1          74.1         41.6         30.1         21.0          17.9          15.4          11.3           11.3           11.3                11.3
TOTAL COSTS  1/                                      363.2         672.6        503.9        601.0        695.1        472.3        402.2        429.7         460.6         525.8          581.0         690.1           664.9              675.1
Of which:  Lacbr                                   68.5        210.3        167.7         201.0        228.1        107,6         69.0          77.0         90.6         109.7         126.7          131.5          132.E               133.4
Local Coats                           153.1        301.5        238.7         274.9        306.7        233.9        184.6        182.9         178.9         184,4         189.4          207.1          215.1               218.5
Foreign Exchange Costa                141.6        160.6         97.5        125.1         160.3        130,8        148.6        169,8        200.1          23t.7         264.9          301.5          317.0               323.2
FAMTLY LABOR ('000 Macdays)                             -           55.5        118.3        159.1        213.3        155,3        186.1         211.3        262.5         298.5         334.0          340.0           340.0              340.0
ECONOMIC COSTS
Labor                                              44.5         136.7        109.0        130.7        148.3         69.9         44.9          50.1         58.9          71.3          82.4           85.5           86.3                86.7
Family Labor                                         -          36.1          76.9        103.4        138.6        100.9        121,0        137.3         170.6         194.0         217.1          221.0          221.0               221.0
Local Costa                                       153.1        301.5        238.7         274.9        306.7        233.9        184.6        182.9         178.9         184.4         189.4          207.1          215.1               218.5
Foreigs E-chasge Cotst                            169.9        193.0        117.0        150.1         192.4        157,0        178.3        203.8        240.1          278.0         317.9          361.8          580.4               587.8
36 7.5       667.3        541.6        659.1        786.0        561.7         528.8        374.1        648.5         727.0          868754                        982.8                 r
Les.:  Tases                                      (28.4)        (35.5)       (17,8)       (23.1)       (23.6)       (14.01       (10.4)         (6.8)        (5.9)         (5.4)          (4.7)         (4.7)           (4,7)               (4,7)
TOTAL                                             339.1         631.8        523.8        636.0        762.4        547.7        518.4         567.3        642,6         722.3         802.1          870.7          898.1               909.3
BENEFITS
Cocoa Voiced @ N 640/T                               -            -            -            -           42.9        163.8        385.3        675.2      1,100.2        1,646.1       2,053.8        2,300.8        2,428.8             2,428,8
Additional Road Benefits                              -          20,3        120.8  2/    60,8          60.8         60,8          60.8         60.8         60.8          60.8           60.8          60.8            60.8                60.8
TOTAL                                           _           20,3        120.8         60.8         183.7        224.6        446.1        736,0      1,161.0       1,706.9        2             2,361.8         2.4896              2489.6
RATE OF RETURN: 19.25%
2/  Vp to 1981/82 physical contingencioe of 5Y. inoloded.
3/  Soclod-a residoal valor of road eqoipment at 5 60,000.



ANNEX 2
Table 5
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Western State Project
Sensitivity Analysis
Cocoa Spot N. Y. Price in USl/lb
27.5 /1          40.0           44.4  /3    48.8 /4               64.7-5
Costs as Estimated                         2.25             22.45           25.45          27.45             34.75
10% Increase in Costs                      9.45             20.05          23.05           25.05             32.25
207. Increase in Costs                     6.65             17.85          20.85           22.95            30.05
Costs Without Shadow Rating
of Labor                                 6.85             18.25          21.35           23.35            30.65
107 Increase in Cosl:s                      3.25            15.75          18.95           20.95             28.25
20% Increase in Costs                      -                13.45          16.65           18,75            26.05
Costs and Benefits IWithout
any Shadow Rating                        2.25             14.85          17.65           20.05            26.95
107. Increase in Costs                     -                12.35          15.25           17.65             24.55
/1   Mid-point of price range of present International Cocoa Agreement (38% below price forecast).
/2   1974 price forecast less 10%.
/3   1974 price forecast for cocoa (1980 price forecast of 0.61 deflated by international deflation
index (1973 = 100; 1974 = 108.3; 1980 = 148.8).
/4   1974 price forecast plus 107.
/5   1973 average price.
March 25, 1974



ANNEX 2
Table 6
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Mid-Western State Project
Sensitivity Analysis
Cocoa Spot N. Y. Price in US#/lb
27.5 L           40.0 /2        44.4 /3        48.8 /4          64.7 /5
Cost as Estimated                         7.85             16.75          19.25          20.85            26.75
10% Increase in Costs                     5.35             14.75          17.25          18.95            24.75
20% Increase in Costs                     2.75             12.95          15.55          17.25            23.05
Costs Without Shadow  Rating
of Labor                                3.25            13.35           15.95          17.65            23.55
10% Increase in Cos-s                     -                11.35          13.95          15.75            21.65
20% Increase in Cos:s                      -                9.35          12.15          13.95            19.95
Costs and Benefits Without
any Shadow Rating                       -                10.95          13.35          15.45            21.15
10% Increase in Cos:s                     -                 8.75          11.35          13.45            19.25
/1    Mid-point of price range of present International Cocoa Agreement (38% below forecast).
/2    1974 price forecast less 10%.
/3    1974 price forecast for cocoa (1980 price forecast of 0.61 deflated by international inflation
index (1973 = 100; 1974 = 108.3; 1980 = 148.8).
/4    1974 price forecast plus 10%.
/5    1973 average price.
March 25, 1974
C9



ANNEX 2
Table 7
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
BREAKDOWN OF DIFFERENT PRICES USED IN SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Spot New York  (JSf/1b)                     27.5  2/       40.0  4/       44.4  3/       48.8  -        64.7   -
Spot New York (Uic/long ton)               616.00         896.00         994.56       1,093.12       1,449.28
Insurance,Freignt, and Marketing
Efficiency (1)%)                         61.60          89,60          99.46         109.31         144.93
FOB Nigeria (US$/long ton)                 554.40         806.40         895.10         983.81       1,304.35
FOB Nigeria (N/long ton)                   364.74         530.53         588.88         647.24         858.13
To farmer                                  300.00  7/    400.00  8/    400.00           400.00  9/    400.00  10/
To LBA                                      20.73          20.73          20.73          20.73          20.73
To Marketing Boa:-ds
Constant Costs  11/                       27.95          27.95          27.95          27.95          27.95
Insurance (0.175M  FOB)                    0.64           0.93           1.03           1.13           1.50
Surplus (deficit)                        (31.97)         16.95          69.37         121.79         311.22
(3.38)        45.83          98.35         150.87         340.67
To NMPC                                      8.72           8.72           8.72           8.72           8.72
To Government
Produce Inspection Charge                  2.20           2.20           2.20           2.20           2.20
J½xes (10% FOB,                           36.47          53.05          58.88          64.72          85.81
38.67         52.25          57.91          66.92          88.01
ECONOMIC VALUE
Farmer                                     300.00         400.00         400.00         400.00         400.00
Marketing Board Surplus (deficit)           (31.7)         16.95          69.73         121.79         311.22
Taxes                                       36.47          53.05          58.88          64.72          85.81
304.50        470.00         528.25         586.51         797.03
Say                                300.00        470.00         530.00         590.00         800.00
(At aadow exchange rates)  12/             360.00         560.00         640.00         700.00         960.00
1/  See also Annex 2, Table 2.
2/  Midpoint price of price range of present International Cocoa Agreement (38% below price forecast).
3/  1974 price forecast for cocoa (1980 price forecast of 0.61 deflated by international inflation
index (1973 = 100; 1974 = 108.3; 1980 = 148.8)
4/  1974 price forecast less 10%.
5/  1974 price forecast plus 10%.
6/  1973 average price (45% over price forecast).
I/  At this prevailing international price the farmer could get less (around N 260).
8/  At this prevailing international price the farmer could get this price.
9/  At this prevailing international price the farmer could get N 500
10/  At this previiling international price  the farmer could easily get N 600.
NOTE:  Notes 7 through 10 are only true under all other conditions being equal.
S    11/  Transport to Shipment N 6.95; Storage handling and bags N 10.00; Financial charges N 4.20;
Board overheeds N 2.80
12/  Shadow exchar-ge rate of N 1.00 = US$ 1.27 compared to actual exchange rate of N 1.00 = US$ 1.52
gives a premium of 20%.
March 21, 1974






ANNEX 3
Page  1
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Cocoa Marketing Cooperatives and the Western State Farmers' Union
I. Cocoa Marketing Cooperatives
A. Western State
The Cocoa Marketing Cooperatives
1.        The cooperative movement was launched in the 1930's by.the then
Department of Agriculture to organize cocoa marketing amongst smallholders
and to encourage competition with private companies and traders handling
cocoa exports. In 1936, a cooperative law was passed, establishing the
Registrar of Cooperative Societies' 1/ powers and duties, and permitting
the organization of cooperative societies. In 1945 the Association of
Nigerian Cooperative Exporters, Limited (ANCE) was established as an
organization embracing all Cooperative Produce Marketing Unions (CPMU) and
Societies (CPMS) in the then Western Region. Following independence in
1960, the cooperative movement suffered from political interference: eco-
nomically unsound societies were established, loans were made without
guarantees, and established cooperative laws were overruled. However, this
situation no longer exists and, since 1965, the cooperative movement,
insulated from political pressure, has steadily developed. In 1965, fol-
lowing the establishment of the mid-Western State, a new cooperative move-
ment was started in Benin following the same basic principles as its
parent organization.
2.        The Primary Societies.  The basic unit of the cooperative movement
is the primary society organized at village level. During their annual
general meeting, members of a primary society elect a Committee, ronsist-
ing of a President, Vice-President and Treasurer, and a maximum of eight
other members. The Committee is responsible to the general meeting for
the executive management of the society and appoints a secretary to manage
the day-to-day operations. The secretary is responsible for purchasing
cocoa from society members, bookkeeping, stock maintenance and cash opera-
tions. He prepares the society's profit and loss account, and the balance
sheet, which the Conmittee presents to the annual general meeting, and to
the Registrar of Cooperatives for approval.
1/   The Registrar of Cooperatives is now a Divisional Director in the
Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives of Western State.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        Cooperative societies are primarily interested in cocoa marketing
but they also provide their members with farm inputs such as pesticides,
fertilizers and sprayers and with seasonal credit for their purchase. In
carrying out these functions, the primary societies are assisted by the
Cooperative Supply Association Limited and the Cooperative Bank in the
Western State, and the Mid-Western Nigeria Cooperative Federation and the
Central Financing Society in the Mid-Western State. Seasonal loans granted
in kind to members at an average interest rate of 15% per annum are repaid
by deduction from the proceeds of each member's sale of cocoa and there is
a well established practice of keeping loan accounts at the primLry society
level. In addition to production loans, primary societies may grant short-term
cash loans to members. The credit-worthiness of a member is appraised by the
committee and the total indebtedness of each member cannot exceed three-quarters
of the estimated value of his cash crop for the ensuing season. A member is
not allowed to borrow money from any source other than the society without
prior approval of the general meeting and Registrar.
4.        To become a member of a primary society, a farmer must be over
18 years of age and own a cocoa farm. He pays an entrance fee of about 1I 0.5,
varying from society to society, and subscribes at least three shares of
? 2.0 each. A member must sell his cocoa only to his society, except
where prior permission has been given by the Committee. This system works
satisfactorily as long as the cooperatives are able to make immediate cash
payments for their members' cocoa. In practice, however, there are occasions
where societies are short of cash and consequently members sell to other
buying agents. No member is entitled to withdraw from his society unless
he has been a member for at least two years and has given six months' notice.
If a member withdraws from his society or is expelled by a decision of the
general meeting for misconduct toward the society, outstanding loans and
interest thereon become payable immediately. Under the project, the loan
agreement to be entered into by cooperative members with the Cooperative
Trust or the Central Financing Society would provide for immediate total
loan repayment, if a project participant leaves the society through which
he was given a development loan.
5.        Primary societies derive their main income from that part of the
licensed buying agent allowance passed on to them by the Unions. Additional
income accrues from shares purchased&by members, entrance fees, interest
on seasonal loans, and commission on the purchase of farm inputs by members.
Societies may also accept deposits from members in individual savings
accounts and use such proceeds for investment or for loans to members.
Reserve Funds are held by societies to meet losses and depreciation of
assets and many societies have established an Educational Fund to finance
scholarships for members' dependents.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The Unions and Association of Nigerian Cooperative Exporters (ANCE)
in Western State
6.        In 1971/72, the Western State had about 830 cocoa marketing primary
societies grouped in 25 Unions, and organized as cooperatives with their
members the constituent primaries. The Unions are licensed buyihg agents
and organize the cocoa marketing of their societies as prescribed by the
Marketing Board (see Annex 11). Besides their marketing operations, Unions
group farm input orders from their constituent societies and pass bulk orders
to the Cooperative Supply Association. If members' requests for production
and consumption loans exceed available funds, unions borrow directly from
the Cooperative Bank for on-lending to their member societies. The Union
committees decide the creditworthiness of each society and fix the maximum
amount each is permitted to borrow. Societies are not entitled to borrow
from sources other than their union without prior Union and Registrar
approval.
7.        ANCE, with headquarters in Ibadan, started operations in 1945,
with a membership of 4 Cooperative Produce Marketing Unions. Membership
grew steadily and, during the period 1966/67 - 1971/72, averaged 23 unions
representing some 850 primary societies and about 48,000 individual members.
During the same period ANCE handled a yearly average of 39,500 tons of
cocoa or approximately 17% of the total Western State production. This
represents an average annual production of 1,715 tons per union, 46 tons per
society or 0.82 tons per member, or an average gross income from cocoa of
N 246 per farmer. In addition to cocoa marketing, its main operation,
ANCE deals also with palm products, coffee and copra and small quantities
of other cash crops. Further data on ANCE and its constituent unions are
given in Table 1. Production statistics show a marked decrease in 1968/69
when crop production was substantially reduced by bad weather throughout
West Africa. In addition, the establishment in 1965/66 of the Mid-Western
State with its own export cooperative association deprived ANCE of four
unions which joined the new Association. In 1969, another union left
ANCE following the establishment of Lagos State. The consolidation of small
societies in larger units led to the reduction of the number of societies
in 1969/70.
8.        ANCE is organized on the cooperative pattern, each union being
represented at the Annual Meeting. A committee, consisting of the President,
Vice-President and one representative selected by the unions of each
Province, is responsible for the executive management and appoints a Sec-
retary to carry out day-to-day operations. ANCE's main object is to operate
as a central marketing agency for members' produce. Initially, ANCE was
the sole licensed buying agent for the whole cooperative movement but, in
1960, each member union whose cocoa throughput exceeded the minimum required
by the Marketing Board, registered as a licensed buying agent and took
direct advantage of the buying allowance. ANCE also provides services to
its members such as transport, storage and marketing of produce which are
not controlled by the Marketing Board.  It assists also its member unions
in their relation with the Marketing Board. ANCE is responsible for the



ANNK.  3
Page  4
general development of cooperative marketing organizations, represents
their interest at Government level and participates in the Cooperative
Union of Western Nigeria which is the apex organization of the cooperative
movement in the Western State. If a member union runs into difficulties,
incurs losses, or is generally mismanaged, ANCE may take over temporarily
by appointing a Secretary directly responsible to ANCE. The same procedure
is applied when new unions are established. In 1971/72 ten societies
were under the direct control of ANCE and their production was handled under
ANCE's buying license.
9.        ANCE's funds are derived from share capital subscribed by members
(N 20 per society member of the union), deposits from members as long-term
loans, and most importantly from charges levied on their members for
services rendered. On average, over the 1966-70 period, each union paid
levies of N 0.2 and N 0.01 per ton of cocoa from a buying allowance of
some N 18 per ton. Further income accrues from debt service on loans
granted to member unions and from cocoa buying allowances for cocoa
handled directly by ANCE. Details of ANCE profit and loss accounts and
balance sheets for the period 1966-1972 are given in Table 1 and information
on previous years' results is available in the first cocoa project Appraisal
Report (PA 69a, April 6, 1971).
10.       The Cooperative Supply Association, Ltd. (CSA).  In 1965, the
cooperative movement realized the aevantages of purchasing inputs needed by
its members in bulk directly from foreign producers. Unions and societies
formed a new cooperative society, the Cooperative Supply Association, to
collect all the societies' orders for farm inputs and purchase these in
bulk. The Cooperative Supply Association Ltd. has grown steadily since
its inception and now covers the whole of Western and Mid-Western States.
Through a network of district and field units, the CSA collects farm input
orders from cooperative societies and unions, calls for bids, and imports
and organizes their distribution amongst purchasers. CSA, the biggest
importer of farm chemicals in Nigeria, also assists cooperatives from other
States in purchasing their farm inputs.
11.       Other Cooperative Organizations.  In addition to ANCE and the
Cooperative Supply Association, the Cooperative Union of Western Nigeria
includes also the Cooperative Bank (see Annex 4), 35 unions consisting
of some 1,400 cooperative thrift and credit societies, and some 270 crafts
consumers' and building societies. Total membership of the Cooperative
Union of Western State exceeds 100,000 members. (See Chart 1, Organization
of the Cooperative Movement.) The Union maintains an audit which ensures
a permanent control of all accounts in each society, union or association.
This unit operates satisfactorily and the Registrar of Cooperatives uses
its services occasionally to ensure societies' audits which he is empowered
to do by law (see para 12).
12.       The Cooperative Societies Division.  This Division, directed by
the Registrar, is within the Ministry of Trade and Cooperatives, and con-
trols the cooperative movement, using legislation provided by the Cooperative



ANNEX 3
Page  5
Societies Law (1953), and subsequent regulations. It registers eligible
societies, supervises societies, unions and associations, audits cooperative
accounts at least once a year, and approves balance sheets and allocation
of bonuses. The Registrar's consent is needed for cooperatives to grant
loans to non-members and to borrow outside the cooperative movement. If
any member of a society committee or other officer is deemed unfit by the
Registrar, he may require his replacement and can appoint a replacement
after a thirty-day vacancy.
13.       New societies undergo a probationary period of approximately
one year before registration. After applying for registration, new primary
societies are supervised and audited by the Department of Cooperatives as
a fully registered society. Registration is granted when the Registrar
is satisfied that cooperative legislation is being correctly applied, at
least 10 members have paid more than the minimum share of N 2.0, and the
cocoa throughput of a cocoa marketing society exceeds 40 tons per year.
14.       In 1972/73, besides the Registrar and the Chief Assistant
Registrar, the Division employed some 210 officers and had a total budget
of about N 300,000. It also organizes, together with the Cooperative Union
of Western Nigeria, revision courses for its own officers and cooperative
secretaries, in cooperative principles, law, bookkeeping and commercial
practices. The training program, staffed by cooperative officers, is
carried out at the cooperative college in Ibadan. Chart II shows the
organization of the Division.
15.       Present Situation of Cooperative Unions and Societies.  With the
expansion of the cocoa project in the Western State, it is expected that
all 25 State cocoa marketing unions will become associated with the project.
These unions and their 829 constituent societies are generally in good
standing. In 1971/72 their members had borrowed a total of bN 534,094
(i.e. bN 9.1 per individual) for seasonal farm inputs of which 73% was
repaid by the end of the following fiscal year. Although the liquidity
of the unions is generally good some are reluctant to reimburse outstanding
ANCE debts, preferring to retain the funds repaid by their constituents
within the union. The Registrar of Cooperatives announced that firm action
would be taken against such Unions at the last ANCE Annual Meeting in
August 1972 and the position has since improved.
B. The Mid-Western State
Cooperative Movement
16.       Although the Mid-Western State Cooperative Movement was part of
the Western Region Cooperative Movement before the formation of the Mid-
Western State, it suffered from the separation, and particularly from the
civil war.  Nevertheless, the cooperative movement is progressively
recovering and has basically the same organization as the Western State
movement.



ANNEX 3
Page  6
17.       In the year 1971/72, some 915 primary societies with 31,800 members
representing 24 unions marketed some N 408,000 of palm kernels and cocoa
representing an average of N 446 per society and N 12.8 per member. In
the same year seven Cocoa Marketing Unions with 6,035 farmers traded about
3,500 tons of cocoa, or 32% of the Mid-Western State cocoa exports. This
represents an average of 500 tons of cocoa per Union, and 0.58 tons per
member. The Mid-Western State cooperative movement is less dependent 'on
cocoa than the Western State, with only 7 Unions and 20% of its members
dealing in cocoa.
18.       The cocoa cooperative societies are all members of the Mid-Western
Nigerian Cooperative Federation, Ltd. (MWNCF) through their Unions.  MWCNF is
an apex organization, similar to ANCE in Western State, and is in charge of
marketing, transporting and exporting its members' production via the
Marketing Board, and of buying in bulk required farm inputs and consumption
goods. MWCNF is well managed and would provide a satisfactory marketing
channel for the cocoa produced by project participants.
19.       All the cocoa trading societies are also members of the Central
Financing Society (CFS), an apex organization established to meet the
financial needs of the Cooperative movement and through which project funds
would be on-lent to cooperative members participating in the project.
20.       The Cooperative Societies Division.  The Cooperative Societies
Division of the Ministry of Trade and Industry (Mid-Western State) has
basically the same functions as those of its counterpart in Western State
(see para 12). Headed by the Registrar of Cooperatives, it has its
headquarters in Benin and main branches in 5 areas are providing services
to, and control of, the unions and societies (see Chart 4). In addition
to the Registrar and Deputy Registrar, the Cooperative Societies Division
in 1970/71 employed 119 senior and junior cooperative officers with a
total budget of about N 168,000.
C. Conclusion
21.       The cooperative movement is well established in the Western State
and satisfactorily in the Mid-Western State. It is experienced in providing
seasonal loans to its members. Under the supervision of the project units,
it would be able to provide the basis for a satisfactory system of input
distribution and loan recovery, with the full participation of its key
organizations - the Cooperative Bank and Central Financing Society.
6



ANNEX 3
Page 7
II. The Western State Farmers' Union (WSFU)
Introduction
22.       Following Nigeria's Independence, numerous farmers' organizations
were hastily formed claiming to represent the interests of the State's
farming community. MANR made many attempts to unify these various groups
into one association but did not succeed until 1969 when the Western State
Farmers' Union (WSFU) was officially launched. This Union is an apex
organization which embraces farmers' groups at village levels, through the
divisional levels (based on administrative divisions) to the General
Assembly which consists of representatives of all the Divisional Unions.
23.       Objectives.  The main objective of WSFU is to promote and
safeguard the economic and social interests of Western State farmers and
fishermen, mainly by organizing multipurpose cooperative societies which
would group farmers for productive purposes, collective purchase of farm
inputs and marketing of their production. The Farmers' Union would also
represent farmers' interest vis-a-vis the Government and with the public
or private institutions of the State which deal with the agricultural
sector.
24.       Organization.  There are 13 district branches throughout Western
State which are grouped into 25 divisional organizations. The General Assem-
bly is the principal governing body. Each level is directed by an elected
committee made up of a President or Chairman, 2 Vice-Presidents or Vice-Chair-
men, a Treasurer, Secretary, Financial Secretary, and members who delegate
(lay-to-day management to the secretary. District annual assemblies elect one
delegate to represent 500 members at the Annual Assembly which in turn elects
the Central Council, the principal executive body. Staffing is weak at all
levels and is limited to 10 head office staff, 25 divisional secretaries,
131 part-time district secretaries, 23 storekeepers, a few assistant store-
keepers and some produce ledger clerks.
25.       Membership and Production.  The reported membership is about 101,000,
incltuding 65,000 cocoa producers, who have access to some inputs and market-
ing facilities. Cocoa deliveries to the Marketing Board increased rapidly
from about 1,500 tons in 1969-70 to some 17,000 tons in 1972-73, equal to
about 7% of the total State production.  However, this is small for a reported
65,000 cocoa producers. Contrary to its objectives, WSFU has not attempted
to organize multipurpose cooperative societies.
26.       Financial Organization and Situation.  UJnder the WSFU constitution
the Hnance Committee is in charge of all financial matters and reports to
the Central Council but can delegate day-to-day operations to the Financial
Secretary. The Committee prepares the annual budget, annual accounts, and
organizes and suipervises the financial procedures to be followed throughout
the movement. Because WSEU has no legal existence, it cannot borrow, and in
order to buy cocoa, wealthier members of the elected committees have to stand
guarantor by pledging their own properties as collateral to secure credit
facilities from financing institutions.



ANNEX 3
Page 8
27.       Since inception WSFU overall operating results have been negative,
hut there is a reported surplus from the initial income derived from the sale
of membership cards (see Table 2). Collections; from the sale of cards have,
however, dropped from N 39,850 during 1968-69 tD some N 2,000 in 1972-73, de-
spite a considerable potential membership. Although all members are required
to pay annual contributions of half a Naira each, no collection has been made.
WISFU has no share capital, hut has an accumulated surplus.  This
may be overstated because the assets include frozen debts and inventories.
There are inconsistencies in the financial statements and field operations
are not properly recorded. WSFU employs a firm of public accountants as
auditors 'Jut reports do not comment on the accounting procedures and financial
situation.
29.       Role of the WSFU in the Project.  The credit system of the first
cocoa nroject is based on membership of project participants in cooperative
societies. The Cooperative Trust is formed by the State cooperative societies
for on-lending tn farmers who repay their loans through deduction from
cocoa sales to the cooperative societies.
30.       For socio-political and historical reasons, a large part of the
farmers' community does not wish to join the existing cooperative movement
and the CDU has reported cases in which significant numbers of farmers have
refused to join the project because of the cooperative membership condition.
The Western State Government has insisted that WSFTJ be employed as a credit
channel in the second cocoa project mainly to remove the feeling that one
part of the farming community is being favored against the other, but also
to allow the cocoa program to expand beyond the cooperative movement which
may otherwise become a limiting factor.
31.       WSFU is relatively new and has not shown great management and
administrative ability in its first years of operation. Although WSFU is
supposed to be an independent movement, it is strongly supported by MANR
whose officers have acted as recrxJting agents and which has seconded a
civil servant to T4SFU Secretariat for managerial assistance. Although
MANR's policy to organize farmers is quite justified, the close connection
between MANR and WSFU may give farmers the impression that WSFU is Govern-
ment-controlled and that loans made by WSFU will be subject to the extremely
lax administration, particularly repayments, that have characterized past
Government loan schemes.
32.       In view of the Government request that WSFU should be used to chan-
nel credit to project farmers as restriction to cooperative members may limit
project expansion, the following is proposed:
(1) A new Agency, legally empowered to carry out business
activities, would be created to assume WSFU's activi-
ties. If nossible it should be established under the
Cooperl_ive Law, the Companies Act or as a statutory
corpor.i tion;



ANNEX 3
Page 9
(2)  The agency should be adeqllately staffed and funded and
subject to strict control of its performance and finances;
(3) Its local branches would not be used for project purposes
unless they are properly established with a capable secre-
tary; and
(4) WSFU farmers joining the project should satisfy the same
criteria as those applied to cooperative members, and
similar procedures should be adopted for their selection
and creditworthiness. Farmers would be required to de-
liver their cocoa to the agency which would be responsible
for collections.
33.       Project costs include the cost of five qualified credit off,icers
attached to the CDU who would assist the agency and its branches to establish
financial procedures and supervise their cocoa operations under the project.
34.       Although the creation of the WSFU agency and its funding and staffing
may take time, it is believed that sufficient potential participants who are
cooperative members will join the scheme and thus ensure achievement of planting
targets.
S?






NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
THE WESTERN STATE CO-OPERATIVE MOVEMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
CO-OPERATIVE UNION
OF WESTERN NIGERIA LTD.
CO-OPER4g49W INVESTMENT
AND 19;iNI SOCIETY                                                                             CO-OPERATIVE SUPPLY
COOPI;10t-iIr BANK                                                                                 ASSOCIATION
ASSOCIATION OF NIGERIAN
CO-OPERATIVE EXPORTERS
CO-OPERATIVE PRODUCE                               CO-OPERATIVE THRIFT AND
MARKETING UNIONS (25)                                    CREDIT UNIONS
+ 300 Crafts, Consumers, Building Societies Etc.           829 Ca-operative Produce Marketing Societies       + 1,400 Co-operative Thrift and Credit Societies
(MEMBERSHIP: + 20,000)                                   (MEMBERSHIP: 58,778)                                 (MEMBERSHIP: + 35,000) *
*Number of societies and membership as during 1971/72.                                                                                              World Bank-7715






I0
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE FARMERS' UNION
(W.S.F.U.)
ORGANIZATION CHART
ANNUAL GENERAL ASSEMBLY
OF DELEGATES
CENTRAL EXECUTIVE
COUNCIL
PRESIDENT GENERAL
...........   ...........          ................ .... ,
CONSULTATIVE
COMMITTEE COMPRISING                                                  EXTERNAL AUDITOR
M.A.N.R. AND W.S.F.U.   ...     .                       ................
GENERAL SECRETARY I
FADMINISTRATI      FIELD OPERATIORODUENGADINSPRDUC  GRDINU                                             RDCCGAIGPODCERDN
|  ADMINIS 'RATIVE   I      FIEPAOFRATMENT    |FINANCE DEPARTMENT IIDPARTEN                                                         RESEARCH, IPUBLICATIONS|
DEPARTMENT        5 DIVIIONALSUPERISILONRSLE                                           SUPEVIS RS               UPRVSOSSUERISR
I  DEPARTMENT  I   FARM M1 DAGER  ISTRICTROLLE                     | PRODUCE MANAGER       P            1PUBLIC RELATIONSDC
TI                  ACC~~~~~EOTN ST   REKERSD EPTSOEEPR                   EO  TREEPRTEO  TR   EPR
EKPR   ONEAST  PRDUE ASSTANT       AA            BOUAPOD  ST                                                           RD  ST                 PROrD. BASST  7
r                   ZONE               ZONE7   |ZABEOUA|AS                            || ILESHA              ||IBADAN               |A|EABEOK
4 DIVISItONAL         5 DIVISIONAL            5 DIVISIONAL        14 DIVISIONAL        I
4  ,                         ~~~~~~~~~PRODUCE GRADING  PRODUCE GRADING       PRODUCE GRADING    IPRODUCE GRADINGI
125 DIVISIONAL ISUPERVISORS                                           SUPERVISORS             SUPERVISORS        ISUPERVISORS          I
ISECRETARIESII
1  1                        1 ~~~~~~~~18 DISTRICT PRODUCE II18 DISTRICT PRODUCE II18 DISTRICT PRODUCE II18 DISTRICT PRODUCEI
13 131 DISTRICT I[IDEPOT STOREKEEPERS IIDEPOT STOREKEEPERS IIDEPOT STOREKEEPERS IIDEPOT STORE KEEPERSI
I RANCHES I
'PROD. ASST. =PRODUCE ASSISTANT                                                                                                                     World Bank-7717 






NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE
MINISTRY OF TRADE AND COOPERATIVES
CO OPERATIVE SOCIETIES DIVISION
ORGANIZATION CHART
EHEADOLUARTERS                                                                                                                 PERMANENT SECRETA
rINAIICC S AUDIT                                              ~~CO.ORPETASAl OLCA                            OC.O-TRCNT                                  SAITO-T  DA-TICS                             Rl-T OR~AAN,AT-O
FIELT
ASTISTATAr TCAISIAAA                                    ASSI~~~~~~REG ST ANT TF I,IoSRAT  ASOTA soISTS                     ASIEA TIFA
NATO  ARCAKUTA  SACAS                SCACI         SASOMAST           OSTOARO~          ~~~~~~~~~~ PClE AXITIRAPA        oEGSooA                             AD             RTE






NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MID-WESTERN STATE COOPERATIVE
SOCIETIES DIVISION
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF TRADE
AND INDUSTRY
PERMANENT SECRETARY
HEADQUARTERS IN BENIN
COOPERATIVE SOCIETIES
DIVISION
REGISTRAR OF COOPERATIVES
DEPUTY REGISTERAR
BRANCHES
HEAD BY                                                               cRDIT
ASSISTANT                    BRANCH                                   BRANCH                                BRAN                          ANG PLANNI
REGISTRARS
COOPERATIVE PRODUCE                                                                                                             CENTRAL
IN CHANGE OF      ~MARKETING SOCIETIES              CRDTMLIPROESOCIETIES APPLYING                                                                   IACN
I                 ~ ~~~~                                                                              ~~IT  I |G
CONTROLLING              INCLUDING M.W.N.C.F.             SOCIETIES          SOCIETIES                                      FOR REGISTRATION             SOCIETY
FIELD ORGANIZATION
CIRCLES
HEADED BU                                                                                          _                                I
SENIOR ASSISTANT
REGISTRARS
IN CHARGE OF                                                  I 857 PR~~~~~~~~~~~~IMARY COOPERATVI 
IN CHARGE OFSOITE
CONTROLLING                                                                                   SONS
21 UNIONS       Ik7






ANNEX 3
Table 1
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
The Association of Nigerian Cooperative Exporters. Ltd.
Ibadan
Basie Data
1966/67      1967/68       1968/69       1969/70         1970171       1971/72          Average 5/
Membership
Unions                                                              21            22            22           23            24              25                23
Societies                                                          869          885           899           815           827             829               854
Individoel members                                             48,347        44,163        45,283        45,695        47,937          58,77D           48,367
Average number of societies per onion                               41           40            41            35            34              33                37
Average sneber of individuals per onion            .            2,302         2,007         2,058         1,987         1,997           2,351            2,103
per societies                            56            50            50            56            58              71               57
Throughpot (T)
Cocoa                                                           39,361       40,374        30,691        36,989        52,333          36,915           39,444
Share of the W. State _ocoa production (7)                   *      16            18           17            18            19              16                17
Pete kernels                                                      308           951         1,694         2,288         2,526           1,446            1,536
Rubber                                                               -             -             -             -           52               62               57
Coffee                                                             268           359          306            23             18              30              167
Copra                                                              950          900           850           550             -               -               812
Sheenots                                                           119           48              -            -             -                -               84
Cotton                                                               -             -             -             -           75              25                50
Ginger                                                               -             -            24           123           82               70               75
Average Throughput of C>ceo (T)
per Union                                                        1,874        1,835         1,395         1,608         2,754           1,477             1,715
per Society                                                         45           46             34           45            63              45                46
per Meeber                                                           0.81          0.91         0.67          0.81           1.09            0.631            0.82
BALANCE SHEETS (6N)
Assets
Fixed                                                          31,320        24,181        17,275        11,551         8,687           n.a.            18,602
Portfolio                                                      86,672       120,078       194,099       194,099       194,099           n.e.           157,809
Stocks                                                          4,169        11,879        28,496        13,654        18,094           n.a.            15,252
Loans to Meeber Unie-s                                        278,488       273,276       318,663       307,472       332,713           n.e.           302,122
Sundry debtors and c,-sh                                       35,159        39,768        66,786        96,501       158,322           n.79,307
Total Assets                                435,808       469,182       625.317       623,277       711,885           n.573092
Liabilities       1/
Share Capital -                                                 6,120         6,510         6,530         6,530         6,530           n.a.              6,444
Rese-ves 2/                                                    127,970      130,294       133,624       139,287       149,849           n.a             136,204
Onions' fT-d deposil:s  3/                                    149,018       142,766       139,240       119,738       119.338           n..132,100
Building loans 4/                                               11,790        7,879         3,949           977           977           n.e.              5,114
Scholarship fonU pro.'ision                                      2,468        2,468         2,468         2,468         2,468           n.a.             2,468
Overdrafts end soodrc  creditors                               34,377        81,879       154,158       159,533       232,940           n.e.           132,570
Bank leans                                                      85,000       76,500       172,777       168,000       168,000           n.e.            134,055
Various staff funds                                             18,300       20,266        21,838        25,752        29,833           n.a.             23,208
Proposed dividend en, bonuses to Management                        765          620           733           992         1,536           n.                  929
Tot.l Liabilities                           435,808       469,182       625,317       623,277       711,885           n.e.           573,092
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT'
Incoe
Receipt accruing fron previous year operations                   3,502        1,417         2,418         1,583         3,941           n,a.              2,572
Trading accounts' recE ipts                                    742,079      881,760       772,193    1,247,652    1,315,424             n.e.            991,822
Interest on loans to Unions                                     17,084       16,862        18,571        19,001        26,295           n.a.             19,563
Other interests, dividends end rents                            13,413       13,418        19,186        22,064        22,003           n.a.             18,017
Levy on palm kernel rorcbhse                                        66            51           171            33          139           n.e.                 92
Levy on ocoa purch-                                              8,062        7,938         6,225         7,210        10,996           n.e.              8,086
Ag.eny consin2,732                                                             3 168      .2_974          2,781         3.097           n.e.295
Total Ione                                  786,938       924,614       821.738    1,300.324    1,381.895               .a.        1,04,102
Expenditures
Trading account experses                                      730,932       869,764       761,295    1,233,413    1,301,445             n.a.            979,370
Staff                                                           17,418       16,433        18,189        19,976        21,704           n.e.             18,744
Rent and Office Maintenance                                      3,582         2,438        2,886         4,032         4,830           n.e.              3,464
Other operating costs                                            5,161        5,323         4,980         6,527         7,425           n.e.              5,883
Interest and financial charges                                  17,553       20,518        23,155        23,593        31,842           n.e.            23,332
Depreciation                                                     7.707        7.195         7.170         6.128         3.0             n.a.              6.240
Total Expenditures                          782,353       921,671       817.675    1,293,669    1,369.796             n.a.         1,037,033
PROFIT   fLOSS)                                                 4.585         2,943         4,063         6.655        12.099           n.a.             6.069
) 1/ Shares of L 10 subscribed by member Unions.
2/  One quarter of the profit at least is paid into the Reserves.
3/ Statutory long-ter  deposit.
4/ Loans for the constraction of offices and sterns.
5/ Average ever the period of which date are available.
Source: Ministry of Trade and Industry, Department of Cooperatives, Ibadan.
May 9, 1973



ANNEX 3
Table 2_
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE FARMERS' UNION
SUNMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEhENTS
(MN)
BALANCE SHEETS                                                                             INCGrE AND EXPENDITURES ACCOUNTS
1968/69    1969/70    1970171    1971/72                                                  1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971172
ASSETS                                                                                            INCOME
Fixed Assets                                                                                      Membership lands                      19,925      2,137       2,675         634
Bank interest                             93        328       1,229      1,245
Furniture                                     -          -        826       n.a.               Levy us Cocoa (previous year)              -           -        743       0.a.
Vehicles                                     _           _.a.                                     - " -       (curreet year)              -           -      3,710       0.a.
Total Fixed Ass-ts                _                   2           n.a.              Levy on Palo Produce (previous yr.)         -          -          30      n.a.
- " -              (current  yr.)      -           -           6      0.0.
Current Assets                                                                                    Gress incosm  fron cocoa sales . .                           14,350      52,879
- " -          paln kernel sales      -           -           -      1,965
Stocks and Debtors                           -           -      1,578       n.a.               Sales and discount on ceimicals            -           -        720           -
Doe fron Produce Accounts                    -           -          -       ..a.               Transport                                                       311         175
for the previous year                      -           -        772       n.a.               Miscellaseous                              -         22          50         539
for the current year-                                  -      3,717       na
Balance with Books                      16,530      11,635      2,215       na                                     Total Income      20.018      2,487      23.524      57A43
Cash in hacd                                49           -         149      n.a.
Total Current A:sets          16,579      11,635      8,431       0.a.
EXPFNDITURES
Total 1ssets         16.579     11.635      11,157      0.0.               Cost of personnel                      3,279       4,355      3,708       1,935
Other operating costs                      -        614         613         870
Office equipesent and nodelling            -        116       1,564           -
LIABILITISS                                                                                       Transport and travelling                 201       1,313      1,144         282
Cheeieals                                 -        900       5,484           -
Accumulated funds                                                                                 Cocoa Trading Account                      --                 8,475      44,945
Palo Kernel Trading Account-                                -               981
lalance at start                        16,530      16,530     11,324       0.0.               Bags                                       -           -      3,000         581
Excess of expendictre ove  incom-e        _        (5.205)      (207)      na.                Financial and insurance charges            8        401           8          40
Others                                   -           94      ___ 6
Long-tern liabilities         16,530     11.324      11,017      n  a,9
Total Expenditures       3z5         7.693     24,65       4963
Current Liabilities
Salaries (unpaid)                            -         147          18      n.a.               CUORENT PROFIT (LOSS)                 16,530      (5.206)      (41)       7803
Unclaied allowance                          49         t64         22       0.0.
Correct Liabilities               49        311          40      0.a.
Total liabilitics   16,579      11.635      11.157       -a.
May 7, 1973



ANNEX 4
Page  1
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PFOJECT
A ricultural Credit Organizations
Introduction
1.        In 1946, Government established the Nigerian Local Development
Board - subsequently replaced by four regional boards, one for each of the
then few Regions of Nigeria - to provide credit to individuals, private com-
panies and cooperative societies for agricultural and industrial projects.
In 1953, the Cooperative Bank was established by the cooperative movement to
cater for the credit requirements of the unions and cooneratives and took
over such activities from the Board.  In 1955, the Western Regional Develop-
ment (Loans) Board was taken over by the Western Region Finance Corporation.
2.        The Western Region Finance Corporation which was not involved in
credit to cooperatives, tended to overlook agricultural credit needs and
concentrated on industrial development. In 1964, the Western Region
Government created a new corporation specializing in agricultural credit:
the Western Nigeria Agricultural Credit Corporation. The new corporation
took over some 50,000 agricultural loans from the Western Region Finance
Corporation totalling about NY 1.5 million, 40 percent of them being consid-
ered as bad debts to be written off. Following proposals made if 1967, the
two Corporations were merged again in Anril 1972 and are known as the Western
State Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation.
I. Western State Agricultural Crpdit
Corporation (ACC)
I.        In 1970, the first cocoa appraisal mission turned down a Government
proposal to use the Agricultural and Industrial Investment Corporation (AIIC)
as a oroject credit institution because of its weak financial structure and
poor performance. Since that time, AITC has received technical assistance from
USAIP, has been reorganized and access to additional resources, and has im-
proved the quality of its loan appraisals and lending operations. Collection
rates have, however, remained unsatisfactorv. At the beginning of 1973, the
State Government dissolved AIIC and entrusted its agricultural credit opera-
tions to the newly formed Agricultural Credit Corporation (ACC). This was
part of a complete reorganization of the statutory corporations and state-
owmed companies in the Western State undertaken on the basis of recommenda-
tions of a British firm of consultants, the Economist Intelligence Unit. An
edict (No. 8 of 1973) established ACC, but a further edict postponed its im-
3       plementation because of delays in the oractical arrangements for the liquida-
tion of AITC, including the sharing of assets and liabilities and distribu-
tion of personnel among the new agencies.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
4.        Some of the provisions of Edict No. 8 establishing ACC raise -rob-
lems.  The powers given to the Executive Council of the State Government,
which should normally belong to the governing body of the Corporation, might
lead to excessive government interference. In addition, the Edict is vague
regarding the funding of the ACC.
5.        ACC could, therefore, become a suitable credit channel provided that:
(a) Its head offices and field agencies are properly staffed
with competent and experienced personnel, and it is able
to supply CDU with field staff;
(b) It is adequately funded with new liquid resources to pur-
sue its lending operations. Furthermore, it should not
be burdened with responsibility for the recovery of the
bad debts of its predecessors; and
(c) It is subject to effective control.
II. The Cooperative Bank and the Cooperative
Investment and Trust Society, Ltd. in the
Western State of Nigeria
Introduction
6.        In 1953, the leading cooperative organizations in Western Nigeria
launched a credit organization, the Cooperative Bank of Western Nigeria, to
collect and distribute savings available inside the cooperative movement,
and to borrow additional funds as required. The Cooperative Bank of Western
Nigeria was established as a cooperative society. It was given a Government
grant of Nt 1 million (N 2.0 million, US$2.8 million) and its first
members were the primary societies, unions and apex organizations of the
cooperative movement. At first the Cooperative Bank confined itself mainly
to the financing of cocoa purchases by ANCE and cooperative unions and
societies. Short-term funds required for such operations were provided by
cooperative savings and by heavy borrowing from commercial banks. The
cooperative Bank developed rapidly, entering more and more into normal
commercial banking as well as into the field of long-term loans and
investments. At the beginning of the 1960's the Central Bank of Nigeria
warned the Cooperative Bank that it should become a licensed company under
the Banking Ordinance (1958) if it wished to continue commercial banking.
To comply with bank legislation specifying liquidity of assets, and to
preserve long-term investment operations it had already entered into, the
Cooperative Bank became a subsidiary of a new "Cooperative Investment and
Trust Society, Ltd." which took over all the long-term loans and investment
operations of the Cooperative Bank. The Cooperative Bank transformed itself
into a company and became a full-fledged commercial bank under the Banking
Ordinance.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The Cooperative Investment and Trust Society, Ltd.
7.        Only unions and societies duly registered in the Western and Lagos
State can become members of the Trust which is established and registered
as a cooperative society under the Cooperative Societies Law (1953). The
Board of Management, elected at the annual meeting, consists of the President,
Vice-President, the Treasurer, one member coming from each well-defined area
and the managers of the apex organizations of the cooperative movement.
It is responsible for the general management of the Trust, day-to-day opera-
tions being left to the General Manager who is appointed or dismissed by
the Board with approval of the annual meeting.
8.        The Trust's capital, paid in shares of NE 1 (N 2.0) each, amounted
to Nt 85,000 (N 170,000, US$257,000) as of March 31, 1972. There is no
fixed authorized capital and each member is free to subscribe any amount above
the minimum set for each type of society and union. Reserves at the same
date were valued at N$ 1,227,000 (N 2,454,000, US$3,705,000). About ninety-
five percent of the Trust portfolio valued at NE 746,000 (N 1,492,000,
US$2,253,000), consists of 700,001 shares of N 2.0 each of the Cooperative
Bank, the remaining Nt 146,000 (N 292,000) being miscellaneous investments
in cooperative ventures, especially in cocoa plantations totalling more
than 1,500 ac. As of March 31, 1973, total loans and advances of the
Cooperative Bank amounted to N 621,191 (Nt 310,595) out of which N 448,749
(Nt 224,374.5) or 72 percent were overdue. The situation has not changed,
since as of September 30, 1973, arrears were reported at N 451,951 or 74% of
the portfolio. The Cooperative Trust is well aware of the situation and has
adopted a firm course of action towards debtors and this resulted in better
results in 1972/73. About one third of the loans and advance was for coopera-
tive societies' agricultural projects, one third for cooperative buildings and
equipment, including 3 supermarkets being constructee by the Cooperative Sup-
ply Association, and the remainder being for various commercial and manufactur-
ing loans. In 1971/72, the Trust made a profit of Nt 170,000 (N 34,000,
US$51,000) compared with an average annual profit of Nt 12,000 (N 24,000,
US$36,000) over the last eight years. In the same year the Trust realized
an additional N$ 7,000 profit by selling insurance company equity holdings.
Details of the Balance sheets for the last 6 years and the portfolio and
loans accounts for the last 5 years are given in Tables 1 and 2.
The iooperative Bank of Western Nigeria
9.        In 1963, the cooperative society "Cooperative Bank of 'western
Nigeria" became a company registered under the Company Ordinance and obtained
a full banking license. Its members are registered cooperative societias
in the Western and Lagos States and these comprise the annual meeting wcth
powers apportioned to the number of shares subscribed by each member. Indivi-
duals or other organizations may become members and subscribe shares but
have no voting powers in the company. The majority of the Cooperative Bank
members are also members of the Cooperative Trust, and the elected manage-
ment board of the Bank also serves as a Management Board for the Trust. The
a       General Manager of the Trust is also the Manager of the Cooperative Bank.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
10.       Under the General Manager, the Cooperative Bank's administration
is split into four departments: the Investment, Accounts, Inspectorate and
Administrative Departments. They are responsible for supervising the! 14
branches opened in the main towns of the Western and Lagos States through
which the Cooperative Bank receives deposits and disburses loans. In March
1970, the Cooperative Bank employed 231 staff members of which 36 were
qualified professionals.
11.       Authorized capital of the Cooperative Bank is fixed as NE 1,000,000
(N 6 million, US$3 million) of which NE 705,000 had been paid in as of
March 31, 1972. The Trust has subscribed and paid in NE 700,001 (US$2.1
million, N 1.4 million); the remaining capital was subscribed by ANCE, the
Cooperative Supply Association and other apex organizations, Uniouas and
Societies, of the Cooperative movement. The Reserve account has increased
from NE 26,050 (N 52,100 in 1963/64 to NE 243,000 (N 486,000) in 1971/72 or
about 10 percent of the share capital. At the end of the financial year
1971/72, more than 4,000 current saving and bank accounts reflected
total deposits of NEL 8.1 million (US$24.0 million, N 16.2 million) which,
compared to total deposits of NE 2.8 million in 1968/69, represents a 188
percent expansion in three years. The total loans and advances at the end
of 1971/72 were NE 8.3 million (US$25 million, N 16.6 million). Profits for
the year were Nt 307,000 (US$927,000, N 614,000), more than twice the average
annual profit for the last six years NE 114,000 (US$344,000, N 228,000) and
represents a return of about 30 percent on capital employed or 4 percent of
total deposits. The balance sheets and profit and loss accounts for the last
6 years are given in Tables 3 and 4. The Cooperative Bank and the Trust
accounts are audited by an independent auditor (Spencer Thirwell Alalade and
Co.). In addition, by a special covenant of the Articles of Association, the
Registrar of Cooperatives is entitled to supervise and audit all the Coopera-
tive Bank's accounts.
12.       As described in Annex 3, the Cooperative Bank is mainly concerned
with financing cocoa purchasing and other cash crops. The Cooperative Bank
has its own resources for these operations but also borrows short term
(repayable in less than one year) from the Central Bank at 8 percent to 10
percent interest per annum and has never defaulted on such borrowings. The
Cooperative Bank on-lends these funds to the Unions for thier purchases
and Unions distribute the funds amongst their member cooperatives. Interest
rates charged by the Cooperative Bank to the unions, which are the licensed
buying agents, are about 12 percent per annum.
13.       In close coordination with the Cooperative Supply Association (CSA)
the Cooperative Bank finances farmers' agricultural inputs and provides CSA
with the short term credit required for bulk purchases. Within the limitations
of the Cooperative Law regulations (see Annex 3) the Cooperative Bank provides
credit for seasonal cash loans to farmers at an interest rate of 15 ppercent
per annum.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
The Cooperative Trust and the Cocoa Project
14.       The role of the Cooperative Trust and Bank in the second cocoa
project would be identical to that of its role in the first cocoa nroject.
The creditworthiness of applicants who are or would become members of a
Cooperative Society would be appraised by the Cooperative Trust Staff
seconded to the project unit.  After successful applicants have signed a
loan agreement with the Trust, the project unit would disburse the loan
in cash and kind, and debit the farmer's loan accotnt kept by the society
and the Trust. Primary societies would collect loan repayments by deduction
from the sales of cocoa and transfer them to the Trust.  These operations
would 1cle carried out through the Cooperative Bank''s branches in the project
area. The risk incurred by the Trust and the onerating costs of the Coopera-
tive Bank would he covered bv a 2 nercent margin on the loan interest rate
charged to project farmers.  The total loans disbursed bv the project on
behalf of the Trust, would be reimbursed by the Trust to the Government with
interest of 7-1/4 percent per annum.
Conc Lusi on
15.       The Trust and the Cooperative Bank have operated verv satisfactorily
since their inception: their financial nerformances have been good; they
have the full confidence of the cooperative movement and of other financial
institutions in the country: and they are backed by the Cooperative Division
and the Government whose policy supports the expansion of the Cooperative
Bank's agricultural lending. During a politically agitated period, they
have been able to maintain high banking standards and to preserve their
financial and economic decisions from direct political Pressures. Over the
last three vears the Bank has experienced a dramatic and successful expansion
based on sound management and adherence to basic cooperative principles.
The Trust and the Cooperative Bank are therefore able to continue providing
a satisfactory svstem of loan recoverv tnder the second cocoa project.
III.  The Mid-Western Nigeria Central
Financing Society, Ltd.
I6.       The Mid-Western State Cooperative M4ovement has not yet developec
financial institutions comparable to the Western State Cooperative Trust
and Cooperative Bank.  However, a similar policy is being followed and the
Central Financing Societv, Ltd. (CFS), an apex financial societv, was formed
in 1968 whose main objective is to cater for the financial needs of 'U.1
constituent societies.  CFS is registered as a cooperative society whose
members are the 21 UJnions of the State representing some 211 societies
including the seven cocoa marketing unions. Government intends CFS to become
the central financing institution of the Mid-Western State cooperative move-
ment and hopes that savings can be obtained from cooperative societies and
unions for lending to its constituents.  CFS would also borrow outside the
cooperative movement as required and would generally act as the financial
agent of the various cooperative entities.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
17.       CFS is managed by a Board of "irectors (currently fifteen) elected
at the annual general meeting. Dav-to-day management is the charge of a
Secretary who is currently a civil servant seconded from the Cooperative
Division .
Financial Situation
18.       Although modest, CFS development to date has been satisfactory.
As Shown in Table 5, CFS paid-in share capital increased from NE 7,000
(N 14,000) in 1968/69 to NE 10,800 (N 21,600) in 1971/72 and reserves accrued
during the same period are equal to 10 percent of the share capital. This,
coupled with a long-term loan of Nt 16,000 (N32,000) from MNCA, enabled to
lend Nt 28,500 (N 57,000) to its constituent societies in 1971/72 and to earn
a net surplus of NE 3,523 (N 7,046) representing some 12 percent on capital
emploved. Loans are usually made for less than one year but indebted Unions
usually repay after 15 to 20 months, which gives a temporary high ratio of
debts overdue. At the end of FY 1971/72 (August 31, 1972), out of a total
loan portfolio of NE 18,500 (N 57,000), Nt 21,700 (N 43,000) or some 75 per-
cent were overdue. By January 31, 1973 overdue loans had been reduced to
N4E 9,000 (N 18,000) or 30 percent and this should be reduced to 10 percent by
the end of FY 1972/73. CFS management does not consider an extension of loan
terms that would improve the poor repayment record on the basis that debtors
wotuld always be tempted to repay their loans after the due date, whatever the
terms. However, the Registrar of Cooperatives has adopted a firm policy re-
garding overdue loans and this is expected to improve the situation during
the next financial year.
The Role of CFS in the Project
19.       CFS would carry out identical functions in the Mid-Western State
to those of the Cooperative Trust in the Western State. Each project
participant would be or would become a member of a cooperative union trading
in cocoa. After being approved technically by the Project Unit (TC,I) and
his credit rating had been accepted by society and project credit staff, he
would sign a loan agreement with his society and receive installments in
cash and in kind from the project unit through his Cooperative Society.
Individual loan accounts would be kept by both the primary society and CFS.
The primary societies would collect annual repayments by deductions from
the farmer's cocoa sales and transfer them to CPS. A loan interest margin
of 2 percent would cover the risks incurred by CFS and part of the lending
costs. Assuming an onlending rate of 7-1/4 percent p.a. to CFS, the
farmer would be charged 9-1/4 percent p.a.
Conclusion
20.       CFS is a voung institution which has been correctly managed to date
and which should be assisted to provide for the credit needs of the coopera-
tive movement. With the -ssistance of TCTT for the disbursement of loans in
cash and in kind, it   .id provide a satisfactory credit system for the cocoa
project in the Mid-We.-.ern State.                                                      s



ANNEX 4
Table 1
SECOND COCOA DROJECT
WESTERN STATE
COOPERATIVE INVESTMDENT AND TRUST SOCIETY, LTD.
BALANCE SHEETS AND PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNTS (1966 - 1972)
(£N '000)
1966/67    1967/68    1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72
BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
Fixed AsE ets                                436         443        456         483        369        360
Portfolic (Investment)                       556         556        556         556        656        746
Loans and Advances                           355         349        330         309        309        294
Sundry' debtors and Prepayment                13          19          20         12           7         5
Cash in land and at Bank                      -          _                       -           13        _
'Total A-sets                      1,360      1,367       1,362      1,360       1,354     1,405
LIABILITIL5
Share Capital (Shares of £  1)                47          54         59          66          77        85
Reserve Funds                              1,203       1,2114     1,221       1,217      1,225      1,227
Loans                                         77          58         38          19          9         -
Accounts payable                              13          11         28          23         32         16
Cooperative Bank                               4          18         11          19         -          60
Profit ard Loss Account                       16          12          5          16         11         17
Total Liabilities                  1,360      1,367       1,362      1,360       1,354     lL4Lu
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS
INCONE
Rent and Property Income                     n.a.        n.a.        36          46          47        53
Interest Receivable                          n.a.        n.a.        21          21         19         19
Other Income                                 n.a.        n.a.          1          1           1         P
Total Income                         n.a.       n.a.         58          68         67         80
EXPENDITURES
Cost of Personnel                            n.a.        n.a.        18          20          25        27
Rent and Building 7Maintenance               n.a.        n.a.        11           8          11         a
Other Operating Costs                        n.a.        n.a.         1           1          1          1
Financial Charges                            n.a.        n.a.         1          -          -           _
Depreciation                                 n.a.        n.a.        24          23          21        20
Total Expenditures                   n.a.       n.a.         55          52         58         56
Current Profit (Loss)                n.a.       n.a.          3          16          9         24
Brought forward from previous year            16          12         12           5         16         11
Less  Dividend on shares                          -          -           3           3           3         4
Allocation to reserves                     -           -           7           2         10         11
Other allocations                                                                         1
a                      As per Balance Sheet                  16          12           5         16          11        17
May 22, 1973



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE
COOPERATIVE INVESTMENT AND TRUST SOCIETY, LTD.
SCHEDULES OF LOANS AND INVESTMENT (1966-1972)
(£N '000)
1967/68    1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72
LOANS AND ADVANCES SCHEDULE
Agricultural projects                                 96        103        111         117        105
C. S. A. and Cooperative buildings                  163         147        123         109         93
Manufacture                                            1          1          1           1          -
Commerce                                             10          10          4          13          8
Investment                                           77          68         68          68         68
Staff advances and miscellaneous                       2          2          2           1         20
349        331        309         309        294
INVESTMENT SCHEDULE (AT COST)
New Africa Insurance Co., Ltd.                       n.a.        10         10          10
C. S. A., Ltd. i/                                   n.a.          1          1           1          1
G. L.  GAISER (Nig.), Ltd.                          n.a.         43         43          43         43
Cooperative Press, Ltd.                             n.a.          2         -           -           2
Cooperative Union of Western Nigeria 2              n.a.         -          -           -
Cooperative Bank of Western Nigeria                 n.ao        500        500        600         700
n.a.       556         556       656         746
(D X
2/ Amount of less than £N 1,000.
May 21, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 3
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
COOPERATIVE BANK OF WESTERN NIGERIA, LTD.
BALANCE SHEETS AND PROFIT APPROPRIATION ACCOUNTS
(6N '000)
1966/67       1967/68       1968/69       1969/70        1970/71       1971/72
BALANCE SHEETS
ASSETS
Fixed assets including vehicles                                          13            20            31          n.a.            194           277
Loans. Advances and other accounts                                    1,486         1,800         2,476          n.a.         5,307          8,260
Cash in hand and at Banks                                              451          1,100         1,176          n.a.         3,071          2,583
Other Assets                                                            -             -             -            n.a.             18           279
Liabilities of customers                                                361           379           302          n.a.            957           857
(acceptance, endorsement, etc.)
Total Assets                                                    2 311         3,299         3.985           n.a.         9.547        12,256
LIAB ILIT IES
Share Capital paid-in                                                  503            503           505          n.a.           605            705
Reserves                                                                 28            36            42          n.a.            122           243
Current Liabilities
-  Current Deposit and Bank Accounts                               1,351         2,298         2,822           n.a.         6,255         8,103
-  Loans and other accounts payable                                   31            31            260          n.a.         1,312         1,869
Acceptance and endorsement on  customers' behalf                        360           378           302          n.a.            957           857
Profit and Loss Account brought forward
- from previous year                                                  18             17            28          n.a.            71            172
- Net Profit from                                                     20             36            26          n.a.           225            307
Total Liabilities                                               2,311         3.299         3,985           n.a.         9,547        12.256
PROFIT APPROPRIATION ACCOUNTS
Debit
Profit unappropriated previous year                                    18            17            28          n.a.             71           172
Net Profit of the year                                                 20            36            26          n.a.            225           307
Total Debit                                                        38            53             54          n.a.           296           479
Credit
Reserve Fund, including bad debt provision                            21            22             29          n.a.           108            292
Contingencies Fund                                                   -              -               3          n.a.             10            45
Dividends and Bond Fee                                               -                3             2          n.a.              4             6
Other appropriations                                                 -              -             -            n.a.              2            52
Carried forward                                                       17             28            20          n.a.            172            84
Total Credit                                                       38             53            54          n.a.           296            479
May 21, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 4
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
COOPEEATIM BANK OF WESTERN NIGERIA, LTD.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS
(1967-1972)
1967/68    1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72
INCOME
Interest Receivable
Current Accounts                                 n.a.       n.a.        n.a.          321        485
Deposit AccOILt                                  n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           16           1
Loans and Staff Accounts                         n.a.       n.a.        n.a.          111         160
Total Inte'est Receivable                  U           202         n.a. e .
Transfer Charg,e3                                 18         23        'n.a.           75         99
Other Income
Commission on Credit and Collection              n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           23          32
Bank Charges anti Comaission                     n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           94        107
Management fees and others                       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           27           7
Discount on bilLs                                n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           16         23
Miscellaneous                                    n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           -            2
2E        -53         n.a.         lw          17 1
Total Income                          244         281        n.a.          683         917
EXPENDITURES
Interest payabln to Bank
- in Nigeria                                  n.a.        n.a.        n.a.         169         230
- abroad                                      n.a.        n.a.        n.a.            1          2
Transfer Charges                                n.a.        n.a.        n.a.            9         10
Bank Charges                                     n.a.       n.a.        n.a.            9          7
Total Financial Charges                    -7           90        n.a.          I            9
Staff Cost                                       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.          174        203
Building Maintenance and Rent                    n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           32         57
Office and legal. expenses                       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           25         60
Committee and others                             n.a.       n.a.        n.a.           10         11
Total Administrative Expenses              12                      n *.a.                   31T
Depreciation                                       6         10         n.a.           29          29
Total Expenditures                    208         254        n.a.          458         609
PROFIT (LOSS)                          36          17        n.a.          225         308
May 21, 1973



20210, ri' 
L- AiS T&   N           
SRAI, 10 ,5 50153                                                                    I IT_ r A ID  OSS  7-C(YUWTS
1060/095u 7'-y69/7u    170/71    1971/72                                                         18 3/')   1069/7:    97c,"7    1971/72
ASSETS                                                                                                        I 7050M
Fixed Assets (Office Eouipment)                     .            4_                                           Loan lrterest Re-.ei red                 419     1,414       4, 075     5,158
Loans and Advances                              14,433 3      6,05r      32,236      2, 546.                   Bank Interest Received                  115                    13         15
Less   bad debt reserves                       -            -       (1,515)    (, 21')                     L eri 5-                                                                 -
Tnve,'o ents                                        -            -        1,4(1         222
Loan Interest Due                                                                         5                                Total Income                536      119        4.108      5,173
Cash in nand and at Bank                           Y'64       2,134            2         47
Stocks                                              it            25          13       _O
Total Assets                       jj1977   .2,2JO   XPCl1\22RS
Cost of Staff                            6'        2-04       218        358
LI4BILITISS                                                                                                    Financia CFl  large                     177        611      1,227      1,161
Share Capital                                                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Office Goeratiug Costs  (068                  31         >
Share Capital                                    3, ob; e   C ,.1 no 838                                       Deoreecati.c  ((Inc- e. oaa 0  )              42   42      1,558
Reserves                                            _188                                                       Other                                    36         39          26          5
Long-term Loan (1,NCF)                           6,57         ;            -9,
- It -     (ICC)                               -            -                      '3                                 Total Exnenditure          384         964      3 6        l
Savings and Deposits                               1I           372         35r         386
Unallocated Provisions                           1,016        1,748          922         155
Net Surplus                                        152           455       1,048       ) 523
Surplus per balance sheet               152        455      1,04L      3.523
Total Liabilities                   14,977       2824        3 ,200      3Z958
Biet SurPlus Appropriation
Reserve Fund                                         8           11                      881
Education Fund                                       15           45         105         353
Dividend on Shares                                    8           -           53         176
Honorarium to Board Members                           8           23          79         176
Bonus to Staff                                        8           23          27          88
Entertainment                                       -             -          200         300
Development Fund                                    75           250         322       1,5?.
Total Appropriation                    151           455       1,04^       3,5x
Jure 3, 2973



I



ANNEX 5
Page  1
IIIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Technical Aspects, Project Organization and Implementation
A. Introiuction
1.        A note on the historic development of the cocoa industry in
Nigeria and a summary of cocoa-growing technology were given in Annex 5 of
the first cocoa project Appraisal Report (PA-69a) and will not be repeated
here. This annex gives additional details on project organization,
technical practices, procedures, and conditions of participation.
B. The Projects and Project Areas
Climate and _cology
2.        Both project areas are in a climatological zone which has a hot
dry season from November to March and a cooler rainy season from April to
October. The rainy season is interrupted by a minor dry season which
normally lasts from late July to early September but varies in duration
from year to year. In late December and January the area is affected by
hot, dust laden, drying winds - the harmattan - from the north. During
these periods, cloudless skies with high day temperatures and cool nights
predominate.
3.        A feature of the climate of the area is the large variation in
rainfall from year to year and from location to location in the area. In
Ibadan average rainfall for the period 1952 - 1958 was 50 inches, with a
minimum of 41 inches in 1958 and a maximum of 63 inches in 1957. For Ondo
during the same period and rainfall averaged 62 inches, with a minimum of
47 inches in 1958 and a maximum of 96 inches in 1957.
Geology
4.        The project area overlies Precambrian metamorphic rocks.  Rock
composition is variable, ranging from course-grain pegmatite to fine grained
schist and from acid quartzite to basic rocks.
Relief, Drainage and Vegetation
5.        Apart from small areas, particularly in the north of the Mid-
Western State, the land is gently undulating and descends from about 800 ft
a       above sea level in the north to 400 ft in the south.  The main rivers



ANNEX 5
Page 2
generally flow southward.  They run throughout the year, but the stveams
which feed them flow only in the wet season. Vegetation is largely rain
forest, but due to shifting cultivation little high forest remains, and
most of the uncropped areas of the cocoa belt are secondary forest or bush.
Soils
6.        Soils in the project area are generally described as being
moderately to strongly leached, with low to medium humus content., weakly
acid (pH 5.5) to neutral surface layers, and moderately to strongly acid
sub-soils. The soils are derived from rather acid crystalline rocks, and
are fairly deep, porous, friable and free draining. Clay and silt contents
are low, and the soils are generally suitable for cocoa production.
Planting Material and Seed Gardens
7.        Project planting material would be confined to a selection
from a series of Amazon/Amelonado hybrids - Series II Hybrids - which in
field trials have given superior yields, and to a series of "Elite" varieties
produced by the Cocoa Research Institute of Nigeria, selected for their
drought resistance and SSVD tolerance.
8.        In the Western State, at Alade, Ilesha, Otu, Ibule, Owena, and
U.  81<j  MANR has established six seed gardens totalling 191 ac and
planted with the hybrids mentioned in para 7. Production amounted to some
282,000 pods in 1971, sufficient to produce the seed required to plant some
12,800 ac (22 pods produce sufficient seed to plant 435 seedlings per acre.)
The potential output of the seed gardens in 1973 is estimated at a minimum
of 700,000 pods but could reach 1 million pods; it is expected that by 1976
output will exceed 2 million pods. (See further details in Table 1.)
9.        For the project in the Western State pod requirements have been
estimated as follows:
Planting   Supply-   Total    Pod Requirements2
------     acres-----------    ------000-----
1973       10,200    2,200       12,400          272.8
1974       20,000    4,080       24,080          529.8
1975       30,000    8,000       38,000          836.0
1976       40,000   12,000       52,000        1,144.0
1977       50,000   16,000       56,000        1,232.0
1978       50,000   20,000       70,000        1,540.0
7V- Assuming that 40 percent of the previous year's planting
has to be replaced.
/2   22 pods/ac to be planted.
Pod production in MANR s-ed gardens would therefore be sufficient to
satisfy project requ   ,nents.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       However, to ensure that project pod production from MANR seed
gardens is achieved, they must be properly maintained. Therefore, the
maintenance of the six MANIR seed gardens has been taken over by CDU.
Maintenance costs of the seed gardens are included in project costs at a
rate of N 0.545/pod under cost of seedlings.
11.       In the Mid-Western State, a seed garden of 16 ac was established
by I4ANR in 1967 on a plot contiguous to the CRIN station at Uhonmora. Four
units of four ac were planted for the production of bi-clonal hybrid seeds
based on the following crossings:
Units          Clones           Acreage
I          C74 x C18             4
II          C75 x C25             4
III          C74 x C23             4
IV          C77 x C67             4
Due to a poor access road and to inadequate shade and management, losses
have continued to be as high as 60 percent. Under the project the seed
garden would become TCU's responsibility, an all-weather access road to the
seed garden would be constructed, and all four units would be replanted and
regularly maintained. The estimated cost, excluding the access roac, is
N 5,000 over 4 years and is included in project costs together with the
N 0.0545 charge per pod. The cost of the access road is included in the road
program costs.
12.       If the seed garden is rehabilitated in 1974, production will
not begin before 1978, and pods required for the project planting program
will have to be procured from CRIN in the following quantities:
Planting   Supply      Total        Pod Requirements
----acres0-----00- ______OOO_---
1975       1,500        -         1,500              33.0
1976       2,750       600        3,350              73.7
1977       2,750(   1,100         3,850              84.7
1978       3,000    1,100         4,100              90.2
1979       2,500    1,200         3,700              81.4
1980       2,500    1,000         3,500              77.0
CRIN seed gardens in the Mid-Western and Western States can provide these
requirements.  From 1980 onward the Uhonmora garden should be abL e to pro-
duce some 125,000 pods annually; this is sufficient to meet projec c require-
ments.
13.       In addition to its hybrid seed gardens, CDU would also ectablish a
25-ac seed garden at Ibule with SSVD resistant varieties. The cost of this
seed garden, is estimated at N 60,000 by CRIN. CRIN would assist in the



ANNEX 5
Page 4
i-tablishment rf this seed garden, which would be irrigated to ensure rapid
development of cuttings and early production of selected pods. Seeds of SSVD
resistant varieties produced in this seed garden would be made available to
Mtl-West State and other Cocoa Projects if required.
Seedling Nurseries
14.       In both states the standard nursery used in the first phase
Western State cocoa project would be continued. The standard requires
'IO beds of 5 x 100 polythene bags, with a theoretical capacity of 20,000
seedlings. The provision for losses is 20 percent plus 10 percent at
planting time, resulting in an estimated production of about 13,000 plant-
able seedlings per nursery. This is equivalent to the first year require-
ments for planting 32 ac or 16 farmers. Nursery establishment, including
sowing, requires some 200 MD and therefore fulltime maintenance by one
man. Sowing in the nursery should commence in October and continue until
January, according to the period of maximum availability of seeds. For
satisfactory development of the seedlings, especially those planted in
October, which would be in the nursery for up to seven months, 14" deep
,olvthene bags should be used.
Planting and Shade Requirements
15.       Planting would take place in May-June immediately after the
beginning of the rainy season. Planting in July or August is too late for
young seedlings to develop sufficiently before the dry season. Spacing
would be at 10' x 10' following CRIN recommendations; this represents a
stand of 435 trees per ac.
16.       The establishment of adequate shade before planting is essential
to the success of all cocoa planting. For both new planting and replanting
field work will begin in the year prior to planting. For new planting the
dense natural shade would be selectively thinned and the undergrowth cleared.
in the following year, planting lines would be cleared and planting holes
dug at 10' x 10'. Regular hand weeding would be carried out, and progressive
shade removal by cutting, ring barking, and poisoning would begin in the
fourth vear after planting. For replanting cocoa would be underbrushed, and
old cocoa trees would be retained as temporary shade supplemented with
plaintain wlhere necessary. It would be a condition of replanting that such
temporary shade has been successfully established. If required, additional
temporary shade could be provided with palm leaves. Debris and other
material would not be removed but would be used as ground mulch. Weeding
;)ould be by hand and no chemicals would be used.  As seedling cocoa develops,
the old cocoa trees would be progressively removed. In the areas of Mass
infection, all cocoa would be removed from both within the area to be planted
and from a cordon 30 ft wide completely surrounding the newly planted cocoa.
17.       Generous quantities of mulch would be applied around each cocoa
Free immediately after -' .ting and would be renewed on a regular basis.



ANNEX 5
Page  5
Harvesting
18.       Harvesting, fermentation and drying would follow traditional
practices, although use of hybrid varieties would present some features
new to Nigerian cocoa farmers and thus would require improved management
techniques. The changed cropping pattern resulting from the hybrids, i.e.
production over a much longer period of the year, would mean an increased
numbet of harvestings. However, the higher proportion of pods in canopy
branches would make harvesting more tedious and would increase the chances
of missed pods.
Anti-Capsid Control
19.       In the project area capsid damage is still extensive, despite
widespread control spraying, and capsid resistance to benzene hexachloride
insecticides has been found. The resistance is not as widespread as in
Ghana, and CRIN is carrying out selection trials to determine a suitable
alternative insecticide.
20.       Capsid spraying for young cocoa begins in June and is followed
by repeat spraying every other month until February. Mature cocoa spraying
begins in August, followed by a second application 28 days later; there-
after spot spraying is carried out as required.
Swollen Shoot Virus Disease (SSVD)
21.       SSVD is endemic in the project area, and the presence of the Areas
of Mass Infection (AMI) have precluded complete eradication of the disease.
The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for SSVD control throughout
Nigeria's cocoa belt.  Inside the AMI replanted farms would have a cocoa
free cordon 30 ft wide surrounding the new areas. Replanted farms would be
regularly reinspected for virus infection and infected trees would be cut
out. Outside the AMI, control consists of cutting out infected and contact
trees and replanting them at the beginning of the next rainy season free
of charge. Survey and control would be continued during the course of
the project.
Yields
22.       Yield variation is large within the project area.  Amelonado
vields varying from 100 lbs/ac to 1,000 lbs/ac, with an average porential
yield of 800 lbs/ac and an estimated average yield of 450 lbs/ac.  Liczle
data is available concerning hybrid yields under small scale farming con-
ditions, but trials have given yields of over 2,000 lbs/ac. On the basis
of thwe intensity of supervision to be provided by the project unit and the
proposed use of farm inputs it is estimated that the following average
yields would be obtained by project farmers:



ANNEX 5
Page  6                9
Year/   1      2    3    4    5    6   7   8    9
------------------lb/ac-----------------
New Planting              -     -    -   100  200  350 550  700  850
Replanting               -      -    -   100  200  350 500  650  750
/1   Year 1 is planting year.
Fertilizers
23.       Fertilizers would be applied to cocoa planted under the project
following CRIN's directives. For all farms except those near Ilaro, a
compound NP 25:15 fertilizer would be used. For farmers near Ilaro, a
compound NPK 15:15:15 or 15:15:10 would be used. In general fertilizers
would be applied as follows, except in the case of new plantings on
recently cleared forest lands, where applications would be reduced or even
foregone:
Year 1:   1 oz/tree in July and again in September.
Year 2:   2 oz/tree in April followed by 1 oz/tree in August.
Years 3 and 4:   2 oz/tree in April and again in August.
Years 5 - 7:   1 cwt/ac in April repeated in August.
liature Cocoa:   2 cwt/ac in April followed by 1 cwt/ac in August.
C. Conditions for Project Participation
A.   Requirements for Project Participation
24.       New Planting
(a) Applicant must be able to prove rights of usage to at
least 4 contiguous ac of good cocoa land, of which
2 ac must be under cultivation of satisfactorily
maintained cocoa.
(b) Applicant must be a member of a cocoa marketing
cooperative society or of WSFU.
Replanting
(c) Applicant must be able to prove ownership of at least
2 contiguous ac of land, carrying old cocoa on good
cocoa soils



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(d) Temporary shade must. be satisfactorily established
during the year prior to planting. Failure to
establish shade would automatically cancel the right
to any further credits.
General   Applicants must:
(e) be prepared to plant or replant the minimum required
area with cocoa;
s(f) show evidence, or be assessed from farming standards
on the applicant's holding, of ability to adapt satis-
factory agricultural methods;
(g) live sufficiently near his farm to allow his regular
personal supervision of operations;
(h) possess a spraying pump in workable condition or,
alternatively, be prepared to purchase one on credit if
necessary.
B.   Special Requirements for Areas of Mass Infestation with Swollen Shoot
25.  (a)  Participants within the area of swollen infection are
required to establish a 30-foot wide cocoa-free cordon
around their replanted farms.
(b) Participants must agree to special inspection by the
Cocoa Survey Branch of the Ministry and to the removal
of swollen shoot diseased trees and contact trees without
compensation, other than replanting by the cocoa Survey
Branch of the areas cleared.
C.   Requirements for Soil, Climate, and Fertility
26.  (a)  Land to be planted must satisfy the requirements of
good cocoa land set by the Soil Survey Branch of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
(b) Land must be in a satisfactory rainfall area.
(c) Land to be newly planted must be under forest or bush
fallow for more than 10 years duration.
l.   Requirements for Following Recommended Cultivation Practices
27.       Project farmers would be required to follow recommended cultivation
practices.  Failure to do so will result in cancellation of the loan agree-
ment between the farmer and the credit organization,*and legal action would
be taken to recover the values of credits issued to the farmer.






ANITEX <
NIGERIA                  Table 1i
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE WMiR SEED GARDENS
Location            Acrg e      Clones            Pod Product. on
Actual     Potential 1973
971       MMin.    'Max.
.000 Pods 
1.  Alade                        Na   32 )                     ,
(1958)                Pa   35 )       1).3       19.o
2.  Ilesha              20.0   C77 x C27          -          -        -
(1961)       25.0   C7h x C78          -          -        -
Total Ilesha   9                        __5        61.&      92.B
3.  Otsu                15.0   C75 x C25          -        128.3    2O .2
(1961)       15.0   C74 x C23          -77.6 1)1.
15.0   C73 x C357.                          1~-.
15.0   C75 x C1          -         18.9      28.4
Tl'otal OtSU    W_ ii6C                           2?24.-.   1-4T.-
4.  Ibule               20.0   C69 x C20
(1967)                                59.3       75.C    142.1
5.  Owena               20.0   C74 x C18          -        101.L    <52.7
(1967)       20.0   075 x C25          -  )      14'6Q.,
20.0   C75 xC14          -)-
20.0   C77 x C27         -         1&.5      27.R
Total Owena    9U.u                      5.O      31h."    569f.
6.  Ille Oluji           5.0   C77 x C67          2.0        -        39.2
(1967)
Total          191.0                    282.8     695.7  1 194.5
1/ Year of creation and first planting.
June 9, 1973



I



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE
ORGANIZATION CHART
FAA.N.R.                    ~~~COORDI NATING
COMMIT;Er
Permanent secetry                      M.A.N.R.,Pemamment Sec.
Chair.m
Project Mnager Sec.
HEAD QUARTERS                          Register of Coopemfetl
IBADAN                            Minstry of Finance
Project Manager                         WiMwstry of Economic Planning
Dreputy Manager                        P. W.   cVf D.
Financial Cotroller                    CRIN
Accountant                             AlIIC
Credt Officer                          Cooperaive Trust
In,tamal Audit
CIRCLES
Heeded by Circle                 |       URE CIRCLECLE                                                                                                IBADAN CIRCLE                                          AEEOKUTA CIRCLE
Officne. EqupIant
to SAO'.
GROUIPS              AKR                 W             D-EKIT                ILESHA              ISONDO                                                                     IwoBADANT                                               IAR
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IWO                                                                                                            AEONKUTA
Heeded bay AO's
OPERATING UNITS
Headed bV AS-.
FINAL ACREAGE ac)
REPLANTING                                   17,500                                                  2Z2200                                                   19.100                                                    12.100
NEW PLANTING                                  "9e00                                                   14.700                                                    bON                                                       400
TOTAL                                        34500                                                   36,900                                                   19g.w                                                     12,00
an)
SAO-Senior Agricultural Officer
AO-Agricltura. Offirer
AS-Agricultural SuPerintendant                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank-7691(R\






Chart 2
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MID-WEST STATE
ORGANIZATION CHART
Chariman - Permanent Secretary, M.A.N.R.
Ministry of Agriculture                    Permanent Secretary, Minister of Finance
& Natural Resources                            or his representative
Senior Representative of the Cooperative
Department
Senior Representative of N.A.B.
Steering Committee  9                    Senior Representative of the Central
Financing Society
A representative of the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture
The General Manager of the T.C.U.
TCU - General Manage-                      Head Cocoa Division - Secretary
(For Meetings On Cocoa)
Controller of                                      Controller of
iFIld Operations   |                                      n ance
Internal Adit  Trainn9 Office     Flanning&                  Senior Credit        SeirAcutn
Internal Audit]  TrainingEOaluation Uit                            Officer
T.C. U.
|  T.C.U.                                                Cocoa Division                                                  T.C.U.
Oil Palm Division                                          Head Cocoa Division                                            Rubber Division
Credit Officer
Regional Units               IG                     HM     MORA                    IGARRA
Operational Units                                                                      3
Acreaga (ac)                2,500                       3,750                       3,750
)0                                                                                                                            World Bank-8577



I



ANEX 6
Page 1
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
The Road Construction Programs
Introduction
1.        In the cocoa growing areas of both states, communication links
are in poor condition both the secondary roads serving small villages and
hamlets, and crop extraction tracks linking these villages with cocoa
fields. Transport costs are high and in some cases cocoa is not harvested
because of prohibitive transport costs. The rehabilitation of certain
roads would open up new planting areas and allow proper maintenance and
harvesting of existing farms. Although this investment would largely
favor the transport of cocoa, movement of other crops and goods would be
facilitated. This annex discusses the road program separately for each
state and analyses the benefits.
The Western State Road Program
2.        Size of the Program.  The Western State CDU reports that some
1,4100 miles of secondary roads need upgrading to transport cocoa from
the cocoa growing areas. As part of the second cocoa project, 600 mi
of secondary and farm access roads would be improved during the three-year
period 1974-77. This program would cover priority needs and would not
be a burden on the project management. In costing the road program it
has been asstmed that some 350 mi of existing secondary roads would be
upgraded and that 250 mi of farm access roads, which are really little
more than imnroved paths, would be developed. The main thrust of the
program would be in the eastern part of the state (Akure and Ilesha - Ife),
as roads in the Abeokuta - Ilaro area and around Ibadan are generally in
better condition. The remaining 800 mi of required road improvement could
he included in a subsequent cocoa project; alternatively, the development
of the cocoa area may eventually justify a separate feeder road project.
3.        General Description of the Area.  The area covered by the Cocoa
Project varies in elevation from about 600 ft to 3,000 ft above sea level
antd is intersected by many rivers flowing in a general north to south
directiont. The whole area is served by tarred trunk roads anc a network
of secondary roads.  Because the latter have been allowed to deterio^cte,
considerable improvement is essential to make them adequate to ha.16e
thie increased volume of cocoa to be transported. Although in some cases
the road surface is bitumen (broken and pot-holed), the majority of roads
are surfaced with a thin layer of laterite. The laterite roac.s are in
such disrepair that complete reconstruction of long sections   :am Lerative.
The soils in the area, classified as ferruginous tropical soils orn
crystalline acid rocks, are deep, porous and free draining.  Deposits of
lateritie gravel suitable for road surfaces are well distributed throughout
the area.



ANNEX 6
Page  2
Design Standards.  At the present time cocoa, agricultural crops
an! general supplies for the area are transported by 3-5 ton trucks and
thr  ubicquitous "Mammy-Wagons".  The volume of traffic will increase as cocoa
procuction increases.  Once the road surfaces have been improved, it is
Probable that there will be an increasing number of passenger vehicles.
Or. this basis, road upgrading can be restricted to improvement
cf thle vertical alignment and drainage, and the application of a lateritic
sur'[ace compacted to 6-in depth on the secondary roads. The farm access
roa(is, which will be subject to less frequent traffic, will only require
a 4-in compacted course, and will have a narrower running surface.
6.        No relocation of existing roads is contemplated.  Adjustments
will be minor. Where the right of way is to be widened, a slignlt lateral
movement of the center line will be required. Allowance has been made for
repairing or replacing concrete culverts of the type approved by the
'finistry of Worlks and Transport. An additional allowance has been included
to cover the cost of bridge repairs as necessary.
The specifications for the upgraded secondary roads would be:
Surface width                        12 ft
Surface material                     Lateritic gravel compacted
to 6-in depth
Subgrade width                       16 ft
Ditch width                           3 ft
Ditch depth                           1 ft
Minimum clearing width               40 ft
Minimum curve radius                 65 ft
faximum sustained favorable grade  15%
M,aximum short pitch favorable
grade                           20%
'4a%imun sustained adverse grade       6%
Maximum short pitch adverse grade   8%
Culverts - concrete made in
place, average                   5 per mile
Storm drains and sumps              100 per mile
Crown at center line of road          2 in
.The farm access roads would meet the following minimum
specEfications:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Surface width                          10 ft
Surface material                      Lateritic gravel compacted
to 4-in depth
Subgrade width                         14 ft
Ditch width                             3 ft
Ditch depth                             1 ft
Mlinimum clearing width                40 ft
Minimum curve radius                   45 ft
Maximum favorable grade                25%
Maximuri adverse grade                 10%
Culverts - Concrete made in
pLace, average                    5 per mile
Storm drains and sumps                 60 per mile
Crown                                   1-1/2 in
In both road standards, the road surface would be at least six Inches above
the level of surrounding flat land, no tree branches would be allowed to
overhang the road surface, and all culverts would be covered with at least
one foot of road making material.
9.         Constnrction Techniques.  No new ro-d construction is envisaged
in the W4estern State program, the works being restricted to upgrading
existing roads and trails; thus little surveying or office design work
will be required.  The assistant-surveyors to be emtloyed by the CDU would
stake the road sections requiring more than simple ripping and reforming.
The Roads Engineer would be responsible for ensuring that the gradients
and standards of the finished roads conform to specification. It is
considered that this upgrading could be carried out for a period of 220 days
per year.
i! .      Upgrading of existing roads would include the following steps:
(a)  Carry out reconnaissance surveys to identify and indicate
the improvements required.
(b)  Widen right of way to 20 ft each side of central line where
required. Remove any tree branches overhanging the
road surface to eliminate dripping after heavy rainfall.
(c)  Prepare road surface for gravelling by ripping and grading
to required elevation. This would be accomplished with
track-type tractors, equipped with rippers and straight
bulldozer blades.
(d)  Dig, load, transport and dump lateritic gravel on road
surrace. Rubber-tired loaders and tipper trucks would be
em?loyed for this phase, assisted where necessary by
contractor-owned vehicles. If required, a ripper-equipped
)                   tractor would assist in opening-up laterite deposits.
(e)  Spread and compact surfacing material and form lateral
ditches using motor-graders, rollers and water trucks



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(which are used to obtain particle consolidation in the
road surface) would probably not be required.
(f)  Dig storm drains and sumps to reduce the water level in
ditches during downpours.
(g)  Repair or replace concrete culverts, made to Ministry of
Works and Transport specifications.
(h)  Repair or replace bridges with concrete box culverts to
Ministry standards.
To increase the participation of local workers, it is suggested that Items
(b), (f), (g) and part of Item (d) of the above procedures be let on small
contracts. As the upgrading programs will cover many short stretches of road,
distributed over the whole project area, it wou:d not be attractive to large
contractors. The allocation of one road enginetr and two assistant-surveyors
to construction supervision and coordination should permit the program to pro-
ceed as planned.
11.       Capital and Operating Costs.  The equipment required to carry
out the 600 mi program in three years is listed in Annex 7, Table 15; it
is estimated to cost 1493.4 thousand (US$749.9 thousand) and to have a
residual value of N265,000 after completion of the program. Operating costs,
including the CDU personnel attached to the project road unit, would average
N947 (US$1,440) per mile; and small civil works should cost about N2,393
(US$3,640) per mile.  Thus, after deduction of the residual value from the
capital cost, and encluding maintenance costs the total road program cost in
the Westfrn State, estimated at N2.23 million (see Annex 7, Table 14), would
average 143,720 (US$5,655) per mile. It is estimated that the annual maintenance
cost of these roads would amount to N300 per mile during the first three years
and reduced to N250 per mile afterwards. 1/
12.       Organization and Management.  Final responsibility for the road pro-
gram would rest with the Cocoa Development Unit. To that effect, CDU would
establish a Road Unit led by an experienced and qualified road engineer as-
sisted by two surveyors and supporting staff. The road engineer would deter-
mine the roads to be improved, agree the annual programs and budget with the
Ministry of Works and Transport (PWD) and the Local Government Councils, and
be responsible for the execution and supervision of work. The equipment owned
by CDU during the construction period and operated under CDU budget would be
maintained by the supplier in accordance with a special covenant in the equip-
ment sale contract.  PWD would also second foremen and drivers to CDU for the
program, but CDU would recruit them directly if need be.
13.       The maintenance 1/of repaired roads would be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Transport and Works and the Local Councils as appropriate,
and part of the purchased equipment would be used for that purpose. Tne
balance would be handed - _c to PWD or kept by CDU for additional road develop-
ment and improvement ini he cocoa areas.
1/   Project cost includes maintenance of roads during execution of the road
program.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
The Mid-Western State Road Program
14.       Scope and Size of the Program.  In Mid-Western State, it is
proposed to upgrade some 63 mi of roads and patwhs to secondary road level
(see para 7). The roads are listed in the following table and are shown
on the Mal. Work to be done on each section is described in the Appendix.
Description of Routes to be Upgraded
Description of Road                 Length
(in miles)
1.  Okha - Usen                          4-1/2
2.  Usen - Ulorin                         8
3.  Ulorin - Ugbogui                      9
4.  Igbobo - Ogbesse                     20
5.  Sabongidda - Agbanikka               16
6.  Orhua - Umokpe                       4
7.  Uhonomora - Seed Garden               1-1/2
63
The above roads are important to evacuate cocoa and also to open up new
areas where soils are suitable for cocoa growing. It is not necessary
to improve farm access roads in the Mid-Western State, as cocoa farms are
generally located near existing roads or roads to be upgraded under the
project.
15.       General Description of the Area.  The area in wnich these roads
are situated varies in elevation from 100 ft to 400 ft.  The road linking
Orhua to Umokpe rises from 700 ft to 800 ft in the section to be upgraded.
The soils are similar to those of the Western Szate Cocoa Project areas,
i.e. ferruginous tropical soils on crystalline acid rocks. Over the narrow
latitudinal strip involved, annual rainfall averages about 60 inches, with
90 to 100 rainy days per year.
16.       Design Standards and Construction Techniques.  The cost of
improving each of the road sections as specified for 12 ft secondary roads
(para 7) has been calculated. Since the condition of each road is
different, and their different measures are required, the road sections
are dealt with separately in the Appendix. In each case, the steps to
be followed for upgrading will correspond to those given for Western State
(para 10). In Mid-Western State, however, participatior. by smail local.
contractors represents a higher proportion of the total road buildir.g
costs than in the Western State. The reason is that the purchase o- loaders
or dump trucks is not justified because of the small size of the road program.
Thus all digging and transport of lateritic surfacing material woul6 be
contracted locally.



ALNNEX 6
Page 6
l.'.      Capital and Operating Costs.  The total road program in Mid-Western
State excluding residual value of equipment and maintenance costi; would cost
about N395,000 (US$600,000). Equipment would amount to N84,600 (US$130,000)
and its residual value is estimated at N60,000.  Average cost is N6,284 per
mlfle (US$9,950) after deduction of the N60,000 residual value of equipment
and the maintenance costs. Maintenance costs after construction would average
N300 per mile per annum for the first three year and N250 mile per annum
afterwards (see Annex 7, Tables 16 and 17 for detailed costs).
18.       Management and Organization.  The Tree Crop Unit would be responsi-
ble for the cocoa project road program which should be completed during the
two year period 1974-1975. It would establish a Road Unit which would first
complete the cocoa project roads and which would also be responsible for the
road rehabilitation program under the proposed oil palm project. The Road
Unit would be managed by a road engineer whose responsibilities would be
similar to those of the Road Unit engineer in the Western State. The same
arrangements with suppliers for maintenance and with PWD for road maintenance
after construction or rehabilitation (see paras 12 and 13) would also apply.
Road Program Benefits
19.       The cocoa project road program would generate three main types
of benefits. First it would open up new land for production, mainly in
cocoa but also in other crops; second, it would reduce cocoa transport
costs, and finally, it would increase the number of road users and reduce
costs for purposes other than cocoa transport.
20.       Survey data 1/ show that some 65% of the area land is arable, of
which some 30% is under fallow, 10% is cultivated in food crops, 15% is under
cocoa and the last 10% under other tree crops. It can be assumed therefore
that 1 mi of road would serve 4 sq mi of land, or 2,560 ac out of which some
385 ac would be under cocoa, 260 under food crops and 260 under other tree
crops (oil palm, kola, coffee). This assumption checks with the estimate made
by the Western State MANR that its 555,000 ac cocoa program would require some
1,400 mi of roads or 1 mi for 395 ac of cocoa. The project would develop some
105,000 ac of cocoa out of which one third would be new planting, i.e. about
35,000 ac, or 60 ac per mile of road construction under the project.  Thus,
it is assumed that 1 mxii of road would serve 445 ac of cocoa made up as follows:
270 ac of existing cocoa,
115 ac of replanted cocoa, and
60 ac of newly planted cocoa.
Assuming in addition that the 270 ac of existing cocoa yield 450 lb of
cocoa per annum, and that the new planting and replanting yields are those
1/   "Agriculture in South Western Nigeria" by Martin Upton, University of
Reading 1967.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
given in Annex 2, the tonnage of cocoa per mile of road is estimated as
follows:
Year           1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8       9
Tons/mile       54   54   54   62   70   81   97   106   115
21.       In addition to cocoa planting, it is estimated that each mile
of road would serve 260 ac of other crops and that the production of those
would be as follows:
Yield          Acreage          Tonnage
Tracre      %         ac           T
Yam              2           35       91          182
Cassava          5          35        91          455
Maize            0.5         10       26           13
Plantain         0.5         20       52           26
100      260          676
Assuming the aabove yields and allocation of land it is estimated that some
676 tons of food crop would be transported on each mile of road. Similarly,
the 260 ac of other tree crops in addition to cocoa (oil palm, kola and
coffee) are estimated to generate some 150 tons per annum per mile.
22.       Transport fees on unimproved farm access roads are presently
about N 2.5 per ton-mile (US$3.80) but are estimated to be reduced to
N 1.00 (US$1.52) per ton-mile after improvement. The current high charges
are explained by the remoteness of the cocoa farms from important traffic
centers and the small size of each load. On the secondary roads to be
improved, it is estimated that current transport charges would decrease
from N 1.50 to N 0.50 per ton-mile.
23.       The above assumptions have been used to estimate the additional
benefits due to road improvement under this project (Additional benefits are
shown in Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4).






ANNEX 6
Appendix
Page  1
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Sections of Road to be Improved in YMid-Western State
Okha-Usen (4--1/2 miles)
1.        This 4l-1/2 mile road section is passable by dry-season vehicular
traffic but requires widening to permit free passage of 5-ton vehicles.
The estimated cost of improving this road to the desired standard is about
N 24,200 including about N 20,300 which would be paid to local contractors.
Usen-Ulorin (8 riles)
2.        This link was formerly used by vehicular traffic, but with the
destruction of two small bridges and six culverts, it can no longer be
used even by motorcycle traffic. Crossing the River Aden presents a
problem, especially in view of the rainy season water levels. To provide
a meaningful estimate of the bridging costs, detailed site and foundation
surveys would he required. As a result, the total cost could well reach
N 100,000 or more.  Since the cocoa project should not have to bear this
cost, it is suggested that the Ministry of Works should build this bridge
as part of their normal road improvement projects.
3.        The lack of a bridge need not hamper development of this area
for cocoa production, since the upgrading program will permit crops from
both sides of the river to be transported to tarred roads for sale. The
last two miles of this trail into Ulorin have already been widened to
permit log--extraction during the dry weather.
4.        If the cost of bridging the River Aden is excluded, the cost
of upgrading this section of road is estimated to be about N 45,500 of
which N 39,600 would be payments to local contractors.
Vlorin-Ugbogui (9 miles)
5.        These two villages have recently been joined by a dry-season
roac passable by motor vehicles. Traffic is limited to about one vehicle
per week. For the first two miles, the road passes through laterite and
qtcartz deposits.  Some lowering of adverse grades will be required.  The
total cost of upgrading will be about N 36,400, N 30,600 being expended
on local contracts.
Igbogo-Ogbesse (20 miles)
X        6.         This road passes through many small villages before terminating
on the banks of the River Ogbesse, the Fronti-er between the Mid-Western
and Western States.  Vehicular traffic consists of Government and private



ANNEX6
Appendix
Page 2
b)uses and "Mammy Wagons" said to be making a total of some eight round trips
per day. The total cost of bringing this road up to the desired standard
is estimated to be about N 89,300, with work estimated to cost N 73,600
being let to local contractors.
Sabongidda-Agbanikka (16 miles)
7.        Some 10 mi of this road passes through the Ora-Luleha-Ozala
Forest Reserve but field and tree crops are planted along the existing
road. Apart from the last 8 mi approaching Agbanikka, where dry weather
traffic passes freely, this road is only passable by motorcycle. It would
be necessary to replace eight box culverts in the first 10 mi, in
addition to surfacing the road for vehicular traffic. The total cost of
improving this road is estimated to be N 111,200 about N 94,100 of which
would be let to local contractors.
Orhua-Umokpe (4 miles)
8.        This road requires simple upgrading.  The estimated cost will
be about N 17,900 including N 14,700 in payments to local contractors'
share.
11honmora-Seed Garden (1-1/2 miles)
9.        At present the cocoa seed garden is linked to the Uhonmora-
Iruekpen trunk road by a foot trail passable by motorcycle. Since the
garden will supply cocoa planting material to a large area, this trail
must be improved to take year-round vehicular traffic. The main obstacle
is a small creek that forms a tight loop across the trail. It is suggested
the loop should be eliminated by cutting a short canal linking the two
stream beds a few yards from the trail, and installing box culverts in the
old beds to handle drainage from higher ground. The estimated cost of
upgrading this road section, including the stream diversion, is about
N 17,700 of which work estimated to cost N 15,200 would be handled by local
contractors.



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECI
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(N '000)
Total                                      Foreign
Disbursement                   GRAND          Exchange
1973/74   1974/75    1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    1980/81               Period          1981/82       TOTAL            c    Amount
A.   WESTERN STATE SECOND PHASE COCOA PROJECT  1/
On-Farm Costs
Replanting                         (6)                   -        104.0      490.1    1,286.5   1,630.0    966.3          775.5       557.7          5,810.1           -         5,810.1       22        1,299.7
New Planting                       (6)                   _        131.8       292.9       905.0      426.8    254.2        197.4        -            2,208.1           -         2,208.1       24          536.3
Total On-Farm Costs                   (6)                   -        235.8       783.0    2,191.5   2,056.8  1,220.5          972.9      557.7          8,018.2           -         8,018.2       23        1,836.0
Staff Salaries and Related Costs  (9)                    (306.8)    292.4        520.0    1,146.1       832.7    642.0       493.4       250.0          3,869.8           -         3,869.8       10           387.0
Buildings                             (7)                  85.2      261.9         3.8         2.3         -         -          -          -              353.2           - -          353.2      23            82.9
Vehicles                              (7)                 119.1       126.9      150.4       121.3        35.1      21.9       11.9        2.5            589.1           -            589.1      78           462.0
Road Program                         (14)                    -       794.4       731.0       728.0       484.0       -          -          -            2,737.4           -          2,737.4      34           918.5
Training                                                    8.1        12.7       16.9        19.8         -         -          -          -               57.5           -             57.5      10             5.8
Sprayers                                                    -         34.0        72.9       124.4         -         -          -          -              231.3           -            231.3      85           196.6
Operating Costs   3/                  (9)                 (12. 9)      29.9       39.5        97.2        90.5      70.6       43.5       37.8            396.1           -            396.1      49           193.0
Sub-total                                            (107.3)  1,788.0   2,317.5    4,430.6   3,499.1  1,955.0   1,521.7              848.0        16,252.6            -        16,252.6       25        4,081.8
Contingencies  -  Physical 5%   4/                          -         89.4       115.9       221.5      175.0       97.8       76.1       42.4            818.1           -            818.1      25           204.5
-  Price           5/                       -        171.2      399.4    1.044.9   1,098.8    723.5          688.0      456.7          4,582.5           _          4.582.5      25         1,145.6
Sub-total                                               -        260.6      515.3    1,266.4   1,273.8    821.3           764.1      499.1          5,400.6           -         5,400.6       25        1,350.1
TOTAL WESTERN STATE                                      (107.3)  2,048.6   2,832.8    5,697.0   4,772.9  2,776.3   2,285.8   1,347.1                  21,653.2           -        21,653.2       25         5,431.9
B.   MID-WESTERN STATE COCOA PROJECT   2/
On-Farm Costs                        (10)                    -          -         94.2       213.6       271.4    330.9       169.3        91.7         1,171.1         48.4         1,219.5       24          295.7
Staff Salaries and Related Costs (13)                       -         141.6      128.8       187.1       211.6    229.7       177.7      118.1          1,194.6        104.7         1,299.3       10          129.9
Buildings                            (11)                    -         62.0      107.6          -          -         -          -           -              169.6           -           169.6       25          416.9
Vehicles                             (11)                    -         28.8       42.9         16.8       30.2      43.2       13.7         9.0            184.6         2.1           186.7       73          136.3
Road Program                         (16)                    -        208.4      253.8          -          -         -          -           -             462.2            -           462.2       32          148.9
Training                                                    -           0.5        0.5          0.6        0.7       -          -           -                2.3           -             2.3       10             0.2
Sprayers                                                    -           2.5        7.4          9.7        4.9       4.9        -           -               29.4           -            29.4       85           25.0
Operating Costs                      (13)                    -         10.5       18.6        22.4        23.9      24.2       21.6        18.0            139.2        12.2           151.4       50            75.7
Sub-total                                              -        454.3      653.8        450.2      542.7    632.9       382.3       236.8          3,353.0       167.4         3,520.4       24           853.6
Contingencies   -  Physical 5%                              -          22.7       32.7        22.5        "7.1      31.6        9.1        11.8            167.5         8.4           175.9       24           42.2
Price          5/                      -         43.7       129.8        98.2      158.6    234.7        173.1      128.2            966.3           -            966.3      24           231.9
Sub-total                                               -         66.4       162.5       120.7      185.7    266.3        192.2      140.0          1,133.8          8.4         1,142.2      24           274.1
TOTAL MID-WESTERN STATE                                      -        520.7      816.3       570.9       728.4    899.2       574.5       376.8          4.486.8       175.8         4,662.6       24        1.127.7
C.   SECOND COCOA PROJECT                                      (107.3)  2.569.3   3.649.1    6,267.9   5,501.3  3,675.5   2,860.3   1,723.9                  26.140.0        175.8        26,315.8       25 _   6.559.6
l/  For the Western States the table gives incremental project costs, i.e. the difference between the total cost of development 105,000 ac minus the
cost of development 43,500 ac already provided for in the First Cocoa Project.  Since savings occurred in the first project due to its late start,
incremental costs are negative in 1973/74. Bracketed figures refer to the detail cost tables.
2/  In the Mid-Western State, 1974/75 costs include the total cost of establishing and running TCDU headquarters; afterwards, HQ.costs are apportioned
for one-third to the Cocoa Project and two-third to the Palm Oil and Rubber Projects except for the building costs entirely charged to the Cocoa
Project. See Tables indicated between brackets for detailed calculations.
3/  Operating costs in 1973/74 are found by combining operating costs in 1973/74 and 1972/73 (see Table 9).
4/  Since no negative physical contingancy has been included, total contingencies are thus slightly higher than 5°. of totals.
5/  Price contingencies applied are:          9/7/5/5 . . . etc. range (compounded) for equipment, furniture, vehicles, sprayers and farm inputs.
12/10/8/8. . . etc. range (compounded) for buildings and local contractors.                                                                                                   5 <
6 (compounded) for labor, salaries and operating expenses.                                                                                                                     - I



ANNEX 7A
Table    _
NIGERIA
SECOND COC0A PROJECT
WESTERN STATE PLA8NTING PROGRAM
1972/73      1973/74      1974/75       1975/76      1976/77       1977/78            Total
FIRST COCOA PROJECT
REPLANTING
Total new acreage                                    2,500        6,900        8,600         9,000            -             -            27,000
Cumulative acreage                                   2,500        9,400        18,000       27,000       27,000        27,000                 -
Cumulative number of farmers                         1,250        4,700        7,750         8,800        8,800         8,800             8,800
NEW PLANTING
Total new acreage                                    3,000        3,300        4,200         6,000            -             -            16,500
Cumulative acreage                                   3,000        6,300       10,500        16,500       16,500        16,500                 -
Cumulative number of farmers                         1,500        3,150        3,750         5,100        5,100        5,100              5,100
TOTAL FIRST COCOA PROJI.CT
Total new acreage                                    5,500       10,200       12,800        15,000            -             -            43,500
Cumulative acreage                                   5,500       15,700       28,500        43,500       43,500       43,500                  -
Cumulative number of farmers                         2,750        7,850       11,500        13,900       13,900        13,900            13,900
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
REPLANTING
Total new acreage                                        -            -        4,900        11,250       27,750             -            43,900
Cumulative acreage                                       -            -        4,900        16,150       43,900       43,900                  -
Cumulative number of farmers                             -            -        2,450         8,075       16,670        16,670            16,670
NEW PLANTING
Toa.Tew acreage                                          -            -        2,100         3,750       12,250             -            18,100
Cumulative acreage                                       -            -        2,100         5,850       18,100        18,100                 -
Cumulative number of farmers                             -            -         1,050        2,925        7,130         7,130             7,130
TOTAL SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Total new acreage                                        -            -        7,000        15,000       40,000             -            62,000
Cumulative acreage                                       -            -        7,000        22,000       62,000        62,000                 -
Cumulative number of farmers                             -            -        3,500        11,000       23,800        23,800            23,800
COMBINED PROJECTS
REPLANT ING
Total new acreage                                    2,500        6,900        13,500       20,250       27,750             -            70,900
Cumulative acreage                                   2,500        9,400       22,900        43,150       70,900       70,900                  -
Number of new farmers                                1,250        3,450        5,500         6,675        8,595             -            25,470
Cumulative number of farmers                         1,250        4,700       10,200        16,875       25,470        25,470                 -
NEW PLANTING
Total new acreage                                    3,000        3,300         6,300        9,750       12,250             -            34,600
Cumulative acreage                                   3,000        6,300       12,600        22,350       34,600        34,600                 -
Number of new farmers                                1,500        1,870         1,650        3,225        4,255             -            12,280
Cumulative number of farmers                         9,500        3150         4,800         8,025       12,280        12,280                 -
TOTAL COMBINED PROJECTS
Total new acreage                                    5,500       10,200        19,800       30,000       40,000             -           105,500
Cumulative acreage                                   5,500       15,700       35,500        65,500      105,500      105,500                  -
Number of new farmers                                2,750        5,100        7,150         9,900       12,850             -            37,750
Cumulative number of farmers                         2,750        7,850        15,000       24,900       37,750        37,750                 -
April 24, 1973



n                                                                              SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MID-WESTERN STATE
PLANTING PROGRAM AND FIELD ORGANIZATION
1974/75            1975/76            1976/77           1977/78           1978/79            Total
NEW PLANTING PROGRAM
Total new acreage                                             5/                 1,500               2,750             2,750             3,000            10,000
Cumulative acreage                                            -                  1,500              4,250              7,000            10,000               -
Number of new farmers                                          -                    750              1,375               625               125             2,875
Cumulative number of farmers                                  -                     750             2,125              2,750             2,875               -
Technical staff   6/
Special laborers  (SL)  1/                                    -                      30                 38               120               143
Agricultural Assistants (AA)   2/                             3                       8                 22                30                36
Agricultural Superintendents (AS)  3/                          2                      4                  8                 8                 8
Agricultural Officers (AO)  4/                                 1                      3                  3                 3                  3
Administrative Units
Operational Units                                             2                       4                  8                 8                  8
Regional Units                                                 1                      3                  3                  3                 3
1/  Planting year and year after planting 1 SL/50 acres; following 2 years 1 SL/150 acres; In Year 5 1 SL/450 acres.
2/ 1 AA/4 SL.
3/ 1 AS for each operational unit.
4/ 1 AO for each regional unit.
5/  Advance recruitment and organization for 1975 planting program.
(D -e
6/ Staff will be phased out after 1978/79 planting year.



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN AND MID-WESTERN STATES
REPLANTING - PER ACRE COS? 1/
(Man-days and Naira)
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ga
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Year I -5    Year6           Year 7       'Year       Year 9       Year 10
LABOR
Clearing and stumping                                         15            - i                       -          -             15             -            -           -            -
Underbrushing and row weeding                                  6            -           --                                      6             - 
Lining, pegging and peg cutting (shade and cocoa)              3            3           -             -           -             6             -
Holing for shade and cocoa                                     2            4           -             -           -             6             -            -           -            -
Carrying and planting shade and cocoa                          4            9           1                   -                  14             -
Filling vacancies                                               -           -            I                  -                   1             -
Shade manipulation                                             -            -           1             1           1             3             -
Mulching                                                       -            2            2            2           -             6             -            -            -           -
Weeding                                                        -           21          18            12          12            63            10            8           8            6             6
Fertilizer application                                         -            1           1             1           1             4             1            1            1           1             1
Capsid Control                                                 -            -           3             3          3              9             5            5            5           5             5
Black pod control                                              -      -                 -             -           -            -              3            4            8           8             8
Harvesting and processing                                       -           -            -            -           3             3             6            9           21          25            25
Total MD Required                                           30          40           27            19         20            136            25           27          43           45            45
Hired ND                                                      10           15           12           to           9            56             5            6           10          11            11
---------------- ----------------------------------- (Naira) --------------------------------------
Total Cost of Hired MD (N 1.00/MD)                            10.00        15.00       12.00         10.00        9.00         56.00          5.00         6.00        10.00       11.00         11.00
FARM INPUTS
Cost to the Farmer
Seedlings @ N 0.02 each                                        -            9.00         2.00         -           -            11.00          -            -            -            -            -
Shade material                                                 8.00         2.00         -            -           -             10.00         -            -            -            -
Insecticide                                                    -            -           -             0.96        0.96          1.92          1.92         2.88         2.88        2.88          2.88
Fungicide                                                       -           -            -            -           -             -             0.90         0.90         1.98         3.14         6.26
Fertilizers                                                    -            2.08         3.12         4.16        4.16          13.52         8.30         8.30         8.30       12.46         12.46
Tools, excluding sprayers                                      -            2.16         -            -           1.30           3.46          -           -            0.27         0.27         0.27
Transport                                                       -           -            -            -           0.70           0.70         1.40         2.45         3.85         4.90          5.95
Cost of farm  inputs to the Farmer                             8.00        15.24         5.12         5.12        7.12         40.60         12.52        14.53        17.28       23.65         27.82
Per acre cash cost to the farmer (incl. Iabor)                18.00        30.24        17.12        15.12       16.12          96.60         17.52       20.53        27.28        24.65         38.82
Cost to Govermnent
Seedlings @ N 0.03 each                                         -          13.50         3.00         -           -             16.50          -           -            -            -
Insecticides                                                   -            -            -            0.52        0.52           1.04         1.02         1.54         1.54         1.54          1.54
Fungicide                                                       -           -            -             -          -             -              0.28        0.28         0.64         0.98          1.96
Fertilizer                                                      -           2.08         3,12          4.16       4.16          13.52          8.30         8.30        8.30        12.46         12.46
Per acre cash Cost to Government                                -          15.58         6.12          4.68       4.68          31.06          9.60        10.12       10.48        14.98         15.96
TOTAL PER ACRE CASH COST                                           18.00        45.82       23.24         19.80      20.80         127.66         27.12        30.65        37.76       49.63         54.78
1/  The MANR study, Draft Expanded Cocoa Scheme, Annex 1, envisages two models for replanting:  outside and inside ANM.                                                                                   ,I
The present model applies to replanting outside AMI.  Inside AMI replanting 4 ac would require the clearing of a
30-meter cordon sanitair around the to-be-replanted area plot in Year 1.  This represents an additional clearing of
4.2 ac at 15 MD/ac on an additional N 15.75/ac of cocoa.



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN AND MID-WESTERN STATE
NEW PLANTING PER ACRE COST
(Man days and Naira)
Total
Year 1      Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 1 - 4    Year 5          Year 6       Year 7       Year 8       Year 9       Year 10
------------------------------------------------- Mandays --------------------------------------------------------------
LABOR
Underbrushing and shade control                             30           -30                                                       -            -             --
Peg cutting, pegging and lining                              3           --                                          3             -            -                                                     -
Holing for cocoa and shade                                   4           --                                          4             -            - 4
Carrying cocoa seedlings                                     4           1             -            -                5             -            -
Planting and filling vacancies                               5           1             -            -                6             -
Mulching                                                     2           2             2             -               6             -             -            -            -            -
Weeding                                                     18          18            18           12               66            10            8             6            5            -
Fertilizer application                                       1           1             1            1                4             1            1             1            1            -
Spraying against capsid                                      -           3             3            3                9             5            5            5             5            -
Pruning                                                      -           -             -            1                1             1            1             1            1            -
Black pod control                                            -           -             -             -               -             3            4             8            8            -
Harvesting and processing                                    -           -             -            3                3             6            9            21           25            -             -
Total MD Required    1/                                  67         26             24           20             137             26           28           42           45           45             45
Hired MD  2/                                           30          15              6            5              56              5            6           10           11           11             11
-------------- ---------------------------------------- (Naira) ----------------------------------------------------------
Total cost of hired ND (N 1.00/MD)                     30.00       15.00           6.00         5.00           56,00           5.00         6.00        10.00        11.00        11.00          11.00
FARM INPUTS
Cost to the Farmer
Seedlings (N 0.02/seedling)                                  9.00        2.00           -            -              11.00           -            -            -            -             -             -
Shade material                                               4.00        1.00           -            -               5.00           -            -            -            -             -             -
Insecticide                                                  -           -             0.96          0.96            1.92          1.92          2.88         2.88         2.88         2.88           2.88
Fungicide                                                    -           -              -            -               -              0.90         0.90         1.98         3.14          6.26          8.04
Fertilizer                                                   2.08        3.12          4.16          4.16           13.52           8.30         8.30         8.30        12.46         12.46         12.46
Tools, excluding sprayers                                    2.16        -              -            1.30            3.46           -            -            0.27         0.27          0.27          0.27
Transport                                                    -           -             -             0.70            0.70           1.40         2.45         3.85         4.90          5.95          7.00
Cost of farm inputs to the farmer                       17.24        6.12          5.12         7.12           35.60          12.52        14.53        17.28        23.65         27.82         30.65
Per acre farmer cash cost (incl. labor)                47.24       21.12          11.12        12.12           91.60          17.52        20.53        27.28        34.65         38,82         41.65
Cost to Government
Seedlings (N 0.03/seedling)                                 13.50        3.00           -            -              16.50           -            -            -             -            -             -
Insecticide                                                  -           -              0.52         0.52            1.04           1.02         1.54         1.54          1.54         1.54          1.54
Fungicide                                                     -          -              -            -                -             0.28         0.28         0.64          0.98         1.96          2.52
Fertilizer                                                   2.08        3.12           4.16         4.16           13.52           8.30         8.30         8.30         12.46        12.46         12.46
Per Acre Cash Cost to Government                        15.58        6.12          4.68         4.68            31.68          9.60        10.12         10.48        14.98        15.96          16.52
TOTAL PER ACRE CASH COST                                         62.82       27.24         15.80         16.80          122.66         27,12         30.65        37.76        49.63         54.78         58.17
1/ MANR study, Draft Expanded Cocoa Scheme (DECS), Vol. II, P. 1 - 6.
2/ Assuming four acres in two installments, see DECS Vol. II, Table 20.
( X



N CCERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE - ON FARM COSTS
(N '000)
Foreign
Exchange
1974/75       1975/76        1976/77       1977/78       1978/79        1979/80       1980/81        Total           E        Amount
REPLANTING
(Total Acres)                                           (4,900)       (11,250)      (27,750)            -                           _                        (43,900)
(of which inside AMI)                                   (1,000)       ( 4,000>      (10,00o)            -            -                             -         (15,000)                      -
Farmer Costs
Hired labor                                                64.8            249.0        662.6          600.3          489.6        378.8         249.8         2,694.9
(of which for cocoa)                                      (49M0)          (186.0)      (505.1)        (600.3)        (489.6)      (378.8)      (249.8)        (2,458.6)       -            -
(of which clearing) 1/                                    (15.8)           (63.0)      (157.5)           -              -            _             _          (  236.3)       -
Seedlings                                                    -              44.1        111.1          272.3           55.5          -             -              483.0       25         120.8
Shade material                                             39.2             99.8        244.5           55.5            -            -             -              439.0              -
Insecticide                                                  -               -             -             4.7           15.5         37.4          26.6             84.2       70          58.9
Fertilizer                                                   -              10.2          38.7         113.2          153.8        162.2         115.4            593.5       70         415.5
Tools excluding sprayers                                     -              10.6          24.3          59.9            6.4         14.6          36.1            151.9       50          76.0
Total Farmers' Costs                                    104.0            413.7      1,081.2        1,105.9          720.8        593.0         427.9         4,446.5        15         671.2
(of which for clearing cordon
sanitair)  1/                                            (15.8)           (63.0)      (157.5)           -              -            -             -             (236.3)      -            -
Government Costs
Seedlings                                                    -              66.2         166.6         408.4           83.3           -            -              724.5        25        181.1
Insecticides                                                 -               -             -             2.5            8.4         20.3          14.4             45.6        70         31.9
Fertilizers                                                  -              10.2          38.7         113.2          153.8        162.2         115.4            593.5        70        415.5
Total Government Costs                                     -              76.4        205.3          524.1          245.5        182.5         129.8          1,363.6       46         628.5
Total Replanting On-Farm Costs                                104.0           490.1       1.286.5       1.630.0          966.3         775.5        557.7          5.810.1        22      1.299.7
NEW PLANTING (Acres)                                      (2,100)          (3,750)      (12,250)             -              -            -             -                -         -            -
Farmer Costs
Hired labor                                                63.0            144.0        436.4          216.8           92.3          61.3          -            1,013.8        -           -
Seedlings                                                  18.9             38.0         117.8          24.5            -             -            -              199.2        25         49.8
Shade material                                              8.2             17.1          52.8          12.3            -             -            -               90.4        -           -
Insecticides                                                -                -             2.0           5.6           15.4          11.8          -               34.8        70         24.4
Fertilizer                                                  4.4             14.4          45.9          62.5           66.6          51.0          -              244.8        70        171.4
Tools, excluding sprayers                                   4.5              8.1          26.5            2.7           4.9          15.9          -               62.6        50         31.3
Total Farmers' Costs                                       99.0            221.6         681.4         324.4          179.2         140.0          -            1,645.6       17         276.9
Govertanent Costs
Seedlings                                                  28.4             56.9         176.6          36.8            -             -            -              298.7        25         74.7
Insecticides                                                 -               -             1.1            3.1           8.4           6.4          -               19.0        70         13.3
Fertilizers                                                 4.4             14.4          45.9           62.5          66.6          51.0          -              244.8        70        171.4
Total Government Costs                                     32.8             71.3         223.6         102.4           75.0          57.4          -              562.5        46        259.4
Total New Planting On-Farm Costs                              131.8           292.9         905,0          426.8          254.2        197.4           -            2,208.1       24         536.3
_                                                             235.8            783.0      2,191.5        2.056.8       1.220.5         972.9         557.7          8,018.2        23      1,836.0
1/ Costs of clearing 30 meter of condor sanitair in Areas of Mass Infection (see Annex 7, Table 4, Footnote 1).
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o1



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE - BUILDINGS. AND VEHICLES
;                                                                                                                                                                                             F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orei3n
Unit Cost          1971/72      1972/73       1973/74       1974/75       1975/76        1976/77        1977/78        1978/79       1979/80        1980/81         Total          _           Amount
BUILDINGS
E.panSi.O of h..dqu.rte..                                                        _           -            73*3                                              -              -              -              -                     73.3
Cirle Headq-arters                             (4 baildingc  @ N 10/sq ft)       -           -             -          105.6           _              _              _             _              _105.6
CirEle Storet                                  (4 stores         N 5/sq ft)      -           -             -           33.6           -              _              _             _              _              _              33.6
Areo Efice.                                    (6 officeS    0 N 1ERq fc)        -           _             _          100.0              -           _              _             _              _                            100.0
Total                                                                                                 Z73.         239.2           -                                                                                       312.5          20          62.5
FURNITURE AND EQUIPEMENT
Head OffEce H                                                                                _            11.9         10.8          0.6                                                                                       233           -             -
Circle and Area                                                                              _             _           11.9          3.2           2.3              _             _              _                             17.4
Total                                                                                                   11.9         22.7          3.8           2.3              -             -              -              -              40.7          50          20,4
TOTAL BUILDENGS AN0 FUENITJRE                                                       -            -           85,2         261.9         3,8            2,3             _- _                          _                             53.2         23           82.9
EEHICLES, TEACTORS AND TRUCKS                              N
Four-wheel drive core  1/                             4,100                      _                     (2) 8.2      (4)16.4    (7)28.7         (2) 8.2         (4)16.4       (4)16.4              -              -             94.3          65           61.3
Motorcycles  2/                                         550                      -            -       (10) .55     (04) 7.7   (14) 7,7        (10)  5,5       (14) 7.7    110) 5.5                -              -              39.6         70           27.7
Tractors aed Lrail-rs  3/                             4,400                      -            -       (20)89.0     (20)98.0   (2018,.0        (20)88.0                                                                        352.0          85          299.2
Lorries  4/                                           6,000                      -            -        (1) 6.0      (1) 6.0    (2)t2.0         (1) 6.0          (1) 6.0            -         (1) 6,0             _             42.0          75           31.5
Bioycles  5/                                             ST                      -            _     (160) 8.0   (176) 8.8  (280)14,0    (204)16.2            (100) 5.0             _        (50) 2.0        (50)2.5             51.0         70           35.7
Saloon oar                                            3,470 0                                          (1) 3.4           _            _        (1) 3.4              _                        (1) 3.4            _              10.2          65            6.6
TOTAL VERIICLES                                                                                             1 1 119.1     126.9       150.4          121.3            35.1          21.9            11.9            2.5           589.1          78         462.0
1/  O s 4E per AO plpus ens fee  -ach Cir-le Credit Officer plas one for each Field Coolntl UOit Officer mi-s -vehicles already
provided in Cocoa Prajec-t , 4 Year life.
2/  One fee each Agric-l--ral Sapertntendei, 3 year life.
3/  Oee 45 hp tractor with 2 trailers per 1,000 arres misas 40 tractors and trailers already provided in  ca P-rjent I,
I year life. Tratr: N 3,000, Trailer N 700.
4/  Teo ST tr=oks per circle  imos 8 tracks already p-ovided in Ccoa Poroject 1, 4 Year life.
_/ One per AA and one per SL.



ANNEX 7
Table 8
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE - STAFFING SCHEDULE,   1973 - 1978
Unit Cost
Posts                           Per Annum        1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79
I.  HEADQUARTER3
Prolect Manager                      12,500            1           1            1           1           1           1
Deputy Project Manager               10,000            1           1            1           1           1           1
Financial Controller                 10,300            1           1            1           1           1           1
Senior CredLt Officer                  7,900           1           1            1           1           1           1
Internal Auditor                      5,500            1           1            1           1           1           1
Accountant                             4,600           1           1            1           1           1           1
Administrative Officer                 3,000           1           1            1           1           1           1
Agricultural Officer (DPM's Office) 4,300              1           1            1           1           1           1
Agricultural Officer (FCU)             5,000           1           1            1           1           1           -
Accounting Assistant                   2,300           5           5            5           5           5           2
Auditing Asn3istant                    2,300           5           5            5           5           5           2
Area Credit Officers                   3,500           9           9            9           9           9           4
Agric. Superintendent (FCU)           3,500            5           6            8           8           8           4
Confidential Secretary                2,100            1           1            1           1           1           1
Stenographers                          1,000           I           1            1           1           1           1
Loan Assistatnts                       1,100          18          25           25          25          12          12
Typist Grade I                           900           1           1            1           1           1           1
Executive Officer                      1,800           1           1            1           1           1           -
Typist Grade II and III                  750           4           4            4           4           4           4
Clerical Of'icers                        750           4           4            4           4           4           2
Storekeeper                            1,400           -           1            1           1           1           1
Assistant Sltorekeeper                   740           1           -            -           -           -
Accounts Clerks                          750           5           5            5           5           5           2
Drivers                                  640           3           4            4           4           4           3
Messengers                               500           3           3            3           3           3           3
Telephone Operators                      680           -           1            1           1           1           1
Receptionist                             680           1           1            1           1           1           1
Nightwatchaen                            460           2           2            2           2           2           2
Audit Clerk                              750           1           1            1           1           1           1
Total HQ    (N t000)                             174.6       187.0        194.2       194.2        194.2      127.1
?. AGE A." GROlUP OFFICES
Circle Leaders                        5,60o            -           3            3           3           3           3
Agricultural Officers                  4,300           5           7           10          10          10           7
Clerical Officers - Circle               750           4          10           10          10          10           5
Typists            - Circle              750           4           6            6           6           6           4
Assistant Storekeeper - Circle           740           4           4            4           4           4           4
Messenger              - Circle          490           4           4            4           4           4           4
Nightwatchmen          - Circle          460           4           8            8           8           8           8
Clerical Officers      - Zonal           750           -           8            8           8           8           6
Typists                - Zonal           750           _           8            8           8           8           6
Messengers             - Zonal           490           -           8            8           8           8           6
Drivers M/V                              640          13          20           28          28          28          15
Total (2)  (N '000)                                42.6       96.4         114.2       114.2      114.2         83.8
3.  OPERATIONAL UNITS
Agricultural Superintendent            2,900          26          40           54          54          30          25
Agricultural Assistant - Planning   1,350             78         120          162         162         120         100
Agricultural Assistant - Soil          1,540          26          40           54          54           -
Special labcrers                         430         280         400          624         828         600         500
Drivers - Tractor                        430          26          40           54          54          40          20
Total (3)  (N '000)                               352.3       528.8         750.0       837.7      524.3        431.1
TOTAL PERSONNEL       (N '000)                        69.        812.2      1.058.      1,146.        832.        6
Cost of personnel provided in
Cocoa Project I El             (N '000)          876.3       519.8        538.4         -           -
Balance required for
Cocoa Project II               (N '000)         (306.8)      292.4        520.0    1,146.1        832.7       642.0
/ After 5 year development staff will be gradually phased out. If another cocoa project is executed
there is no need to phase the staff out.
2/  See AR Pa 69a, Annex 2, Table 2.  For 1973/74, the amount is obtained by adding L 168,000 for 1971;
; 176,300 for 1972, 1. 199,000 for 1973 minus L 105,200 spent in 1971/72 for staff.



ANNFXc 7
Table 9
i;      fa;;M5.-a-a'a;
'a          aCCC r     r      u0O  at-         I_ --
CCCC .o                            -a-00N aS O    r 
0_ 1_                  -4'aC-   'a <  oH0 |t at  0   -ar       1
_OC            -a       CaC-aCOD i C_ 
- .a    0-              oa r  0-    'a  CO        -
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-    Ca   *.                                                                             V 
_~~~~                                                                               ~         ~~~~~~~~~~ COC :  4  Oa-C-a_CO
-s~ ~                       c 0-C        0.a           -            H1          r2
C  0  .aC.                                                          a  q,    i   
0C  I. OcC    C          . C  OF         C     C .



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MID-WESTERN STATE - ON FARM COSTS
(N '000)
Total                                            Foreign Exchange
1974/75        1975/76      1976/77       1977/78       1978/79      1979/80       1980/81       Disbursement Period        1981/82         Total        7         Amount
New Planting Program  (Acres)                              (1,500)        (2,750)     (2,750)       (3,000)        -              -              (10,000)                             (10,000)       _            _
Farmers' Costs
Hired labor                                              45.0          305.0        132.8         155.3         75.3        31.8                545.2                  l5.0         560.2
Seedlings                                                13.5           27.8        30.3           32.5          6.0         -                  110.1                   -           110.1        25          27.5
Shade material                                            6.0           12.5         13.8          14.8          3.0         -                   50.1                   -            50.1        -             -
Insecticides                                              -             -             1.4           4.0          5.2         5.5                 16.1                   2.9          19.0        70          13.3
Fertilizers                                               3.1           10.4         20.5          32.4         32.2        23.9                122.5                  12.5         135.0        70           94.5
Tools, excluding sprayers                                 3.2            5.9          5.9           8.5          3.6         3.6                 30.7                   3.9           34.6       50           17.3
Total Farmers' Costs                                 70.8          161.6       204.7          247.5       125.3         64.8               874.7                  34.3          909.0        17         152.6
Government Costs
Seedlings                                                20.3           41.6        45.4           48.8          9.0          -                 165.1                   -           165.1        25          41.3
Insecticides                                              -             -             0.8           2.2          2.8         3.0                  8.8                   1.6          10.4        70            7.3
Fertilizers                                               3.1           10.4         20.5          32.4         32.2        23.9                122.5                  12.5          135.0       70           94.5
Total Government Cost                               23.4          52.0         66.7           83.4        44.0         26.9               296.4                  14.1          310.5       46          143.1
TOTAL ON-FARM COSTS                                     94.2          213.6       271.4          330.9        169.3        91.7              1,171.1                  48.4       1,219.5        24         295.7



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MID-WESTERN STATE - BUILDINGS, AND VEHICLES
(N '000)
a>                                                                                                                                                                      Total                                 Foreign
av                                                 Unit                                                                                                             Disbursement                  Grand       Exchange
Cost             1974/75      1975/76       1976/77       1977/78      1978/79       1979/80       1980/81         Period         1981/82   Total    %          Amoun
BUILDINGS
Headquarters                                 N 10/sq.ft           27.0          27.0          -              -             -             -           -                54.0           -        54.0
Regionol Unit Officeo                        N 10/eq.ft           16.7         33.3            -             -             -             -            -               50.0           -        50.0
Regional Unit Stores                         N  5/sq.ft            5.0          10.0          -                                                       -               15.0           -        15.0
Houses                                       N 12/sq.ft            -            24.0          -              -             -             -           -                24.0           -        24.0
Total Buildings                                            48.7          94.3          -                                                       _              143.0           -       143.0      20    28.6
Furniture and Equipment
Headquarters                                                       9.0           9.0          -              -             _             _           _                18.0           -        18.0      -
Regional Units                                                     4.3           4.3          -              -             -             -           -                 8.6           -         8.6                -
Furniture and Equipment                                           13.3          13.3           -                                         _            _               26.6           _        26.6      50     13.3
TOTAL BUILDINGS  1/                                                  62.0         107.6           -              -            -             -            -              169.6           -       169.6       25    41.9
Costed under Oil Palm and Rubber Projects                                                                   -                      -                                               -                -        -
Costed under Cocoa Project  1/                                    62.0         107.6          -              -             -             -           -               169.6           -       169.6      25    41.9
(Charged to Cocoa II)  2/                                         (40.0)        (83.6)         -                                                      -             (123.6)           _      (123.6)   (25)  (30.9)
VEHICLES, TRACTORS AND TRUCKS
Headquarters                                       (N)
Sedan (Stationwagon)                             4,000       (1)   4.0                         -       (1)  4.0                          -     (1)  4.0               12.0           _        12.0       65      7.8
Four-wheel Drive                                 4,100       (1)   4.1           -             -       (1)  4.1            -             -     (1)  4.1               12.3           -        12.3       65      8.0
Safari Station Wagon                             3,200             -         (2) 6.4                          -       (2) 6.4            -            -               12.8    (2) 6.4         19.2       65     12.5
Regional Units
Four-wheel Drive                                 4,100       (1)   4.1       (2) 8.2    (1) 4.1        (1)  4.1       (2) 8.2       (1) 4.1    (1) 4.1                36.9           -         36.9      65     24.0
5T Trucks                                        6,000       (1)   6.0       (2)12.0    (1) 6.0        (1)  6.0       (2)12.0      (1) 6.0            -               48.0           -        48.0       75     36.0
Tractors and 2 Trailers                          4,400       (2)   8.8       (4)17.6           -       (2)  8.8       (4)17.6            -            -               52.8           -        52.8       85    44.9
Motor Cycles                                       550       (2)   1.1       (2) 1.1    (6) 3.3        (2)  1.1       (6) 3.3       (2) 1.1    (4) 2.2                13.2           -         13.2      70      9.3
Bicycles                                            50     (13)   0.7       (37) 1.9   (68) 3.4   (1503  7.5               -      (50) 2.5            -               16.0           -         16.0      70     11.2
Total Vehicles                                                  28.8         47.2         16.8           35,6          47.5          13.7        14.4              204.0          6.4      210.4       73   153.7
Costed under Oil Palm and Rubber Projects                          -             4.3           -             5.4          4.3            -           5.4              19.4          4.3        23.7      73     17.3
Costed under Cocoa Project 3/                                     28.8          42.9        16.8           30,2          43.2          13.7          9.0             184.6          2.1      186.7       73   136.3
(Charged to Cocoa) 4/                                             (23.4)        (42.9)      (16.8)         (30,2)        (43.2)        (13.7)        (9.0)           (179.2)        (2.1)    (181.3)   (73) (032.3)
1/ Building costs are completely costed under Cocoa Project II
2/ For economic cost cal-ulation only 1/3 of Headquarter buildings and furniture charged to cocoa. Other costs charged fully.
3/ In 1974/75 total vehicle costs are costed under Cocoa Project II
4/ For economic cost calculation onIy one-third of headquarters vehicles charged to cocoa. Other vehicles charged fully.
- s



'Ii
o  COC    --                   COOCOOOOCONOOONCOONOC 0 ON 0 -t
COON                   ON. '0-                         CO            0   CO        0
ON  COO                -   ON                               0                 0-N      -
0  0000-400 0 000  -- ON CO CO 00000-000  ON
0   COON                   .4  0.0-                        CO  -      04    4
ON  0-CON              -   ON                              ON                 0   -
ONON.CCNO4CO   0   000          --    ON  OCCOCOCOONCO.04COOCO ON  CO   ONOCONOCCOO
0  COON                    -C '-                 0    -ON400ONCO0                              CC
.04                                                                                                                                                       0.
oCC    ONONOONCO   CO  ON              COO  ON  r.COCOCOON00000N  COON                ON  000    0   0   ON           CCC
-ONON00ONCO oOON                                                                                                                                 0
0                                                                                           ONC-CON  ON  ON
00.00                                                                                                                                                                     CO ON
PICCo                -4                                                                     .40                    0                               0                 CO  CO  ON                                  -
ONON,oOONCO         000                0000   OCOCO4CO.tCOCOCO ON  ON  4   400    00   -   ON                                          '-NC-
COO-                   4   '-                 -        0   'N-      CO  CO   0   0                       CC        0
0                      0        0.0
CCC      0-CC
CO         0
4        00CC
ON                -   0                                0                 ON  ON  ON         C      CC   CC-C         C
'0    CC              -o
O ON ON.400COO-C.0  C             00                                   0      4   0   000    ON  00  0                    0     C-N      No
-,                   CC   4         0     Co    CC        00
C-N   CO      CC         CC
COON   0000OO00000CCCCCCO0COCCNO0                                00                   00CCCCCOCCNOO.CONC             000                        Nj
01                                                                                                                                                                                        C-CC)
0     CCC    0         0¾
CCC                 ON                                                                                                                                             4      0      0-
0               000000000000000000000                                             00                   000000000                       000                CC   C  C  C                      CC
04              00.-C                                                                                                                                              NC    0      ON
004               C        CC     4      .0       00
COoO0C.-                                           0   00                        ONCOO                                             0   0  0  CCC  CC0
C               0000                                                      0                   -N                                                ON       NO        Co     .    -          04
0                                                                       -0                    0                                                  0        -               CCC    -           C
CO                                                ONICCO                 0                                                  0        0               CC    --         CC-'
CO                  0                               -0--               -        -.00     0      0      .00      CO
0-NC-                                                                     C                *,-CCCC       0        '0CC
COO                   NO                                                 C-  -   +         CCCC0   0     C-        00
-N-.0                 CC                                                -0-  0             00   0                 0CC
COl    CC                                         .0-0.0  CCCI           *o-C                                               NC  0    CO       0      0      CC        00
CC                        C--O   CCC              0                               0                 0   0   0         00    NO'  CCC          -ON
C               CC                           0   001              0                                                      -   -        0-CC    .O   0         C-CC)
C     0                CC                         CCC    of              N-                                                                     CO   CC0   0         CC.
C                     0                           00    CC                                                                      0  0-N        Cot   00    C-         0CC
o      C              0                           0CC   CO1             CCC                                                     Co  C         0CC-C-C-CC-C           C-CC.0
0      CC              0                           0-NO   Co             CC                                                CC   *   C         C-CC.     C   0    .   0-Co
C-CC  0                0                          0                       CC                                                C-C  CC  0        CC     C-
0     C-                                          CCC   00              -O                                                 -0        0        CCC   CNN                CC
C-     CC              C-NC'                      Coo-   -o                                                                 0   C--  CC        .0   CC-C  CCC  0    00
CC      CC    CC                00                     0-0    0   CC              C-                                          o      H        CC       Co      CC         4   C-N-C
C        C.    CO C-C         C-00                     0   00    C                CO                                          -C              CC       40   .00    0   o-   00
C       0CC    00             CCC.CCC                  0   0      04                       CO                                 0      .0   4   CO              .0.o        OCCO
CC    CC  CC  CON          C-CCC000                                                                                           0      0CC.                        0C-C-CCO
04     0.0CC-CC   000       CCCCCCC                    -   00-   0   C-C           0        CC                                CC      0   oo  CC        ONO   00CC  CC  o.    CC
0000                 0000CC                          COO   CO   00          CC       00                                 CCC   C   C   CC        C-ON   CC0   0          C
-      000    0           OCCOCCOCCC-                  NC         -   CoO         0        .4CC   CCC             0   04    0-    0-  CC  CC           00    0      CCC  C-  COO
0      COC-CO             0.000                         C-  00    0   C-N.0o      NJ        000   C-               CO        0.000   0         0        004   00          CC  CCC-
CC  CCC-CC-OOCCOCCCC                                  ON  CC    CC  CON-CC                0000                             CONOCo   0   0   0         .0CC   00-0  C-   0   CCoN0-
CCC      CC0    C-CC-N 00.00                      0                 0        04        00004CC                           <0    C-  -   CC         0.    0-0  '0  .o.  CoON
C   COCCC0CCOON        0CCC->0    CO                   0   0'0        NC         NON         00-4                     A         Co   C   CC  CO          C     0   0   C-   00
004        o   0   .oNC-NCN.o                        00    0.  0               00.0   CCC)   C   -o  COON
O        Od.004.COON,40.OCCC00Co                 C-   -01        00    CO  C-ON        C-N  CC   0CC-NO          CC    0   0    00.0   0   CO   0           0004   0               00.0
NO   CC    CO   00         0         CCCCO    CO                       COO             0               COO   Co  CC  '0
000)0    COC-   CCCJC-C-OCC -          0.  CC      0  -.04   .0  040   ON              404.4      CC                            0   0   CC        NC-CC-   00   No-C  C-,  CCC
C-              -oOOCCCON'0.0'ON                                                     i                               A             C-N  C-N  0-0     COt   CO    CC  C-  00CC
04   0   NC   CCCC0CC-N0<0    0   00                        0   C-C-  NO  CCoC.C  CC  =   C-  o.0OCOOCCCCCNC               00-I         NN  0-  NJ        00CC         CC  CC
0.-00400CC--o,0<OCCCCCS              CCCCC     CC  04CC           CC   0  0N004-000    C   0CC    0   oC  04                  0   0   0         .00    00         CC  CCC
t       ,Co-.,    C.-o--.Coo    0000CC        NOCCOJOC
NOCCCCOooCONN  COCCCC0-400C-CC0 .00CC-   C-N  00   0    0                0        0    0CC<C-NCCCC-.0C    0            400    0   0               04     CC-  CC   0        C
C0000oO0-CoCOC.00.Oo-C04o0CO.0CoCCN4>                 0-0-  .CC  00          NC       0-OCCOC--N-CCo>            00                     0           CC  -0---   0   C-   00
C-CC-C-Co    C-ONC-0000000000<OOC                      0-Co   0      0   00  0         CCC-  -o-000C-0ON    C-N        C-
COj      00NOC-004000  0 CCCC.0COCOCo                       .0<4   0    OC-         -.      CC  000-COON                  I    C-C-           C-        0CC    0      0           C
00       OCO0400-.0<OC.-COOO<<04004COOONNO                             0  O8          C         <CO.-C04ONZH00            CO  0400              C--       CCC    0,0  C-  CC
0   04   0   0   .00
0040CC        Co0C-C000400C-                                             CCCOOo-oCOC-C-                  0000-              0       000   -                CC
.000
0                                                                                    4     01    01  -CC



NIGE-RIA
SECOND COCOA PROjECT
MID-WESTERN STATE OPERATING 0ASTS
Forign
Snit Cost                                                                                                                      Total Disburs-                             Crndtsh--o
Per Anoos              1974/75        1975/76       _1970/77       1977/78        1978/79        1979/80        1980/91               P.ot toiud         1981/82          ToruSl                Ae... t
OPERATING COSTS
Office S-ric-s  Reet  -nd Buiidig Repair
Hendq atet-                                                                     3.0            5.0            8.0            8.0           8.0             8.0            8.0              48.0                   0.0             50.0--
Field  ffEice                                                                   2.0            3.0            4.0            5.0           5.R             5.0            0,0              29.0                    5.0            34.0--
Other Mlioteon-                                                                 0.6            0.8            1.0            1.5           5.8             1.8            5.8               9.3                   1.8             11.1-
Rub-Total                                                            (17  5.6            8.0           13.0           14.5          04.0            14.8           14.0               86.3                  14.8          101.1           60        60.7
Ve.hiles                                                        N
Poo--h-el Orivol' 1,20                                                     (2)  2.0       (4)  _.1       (5)  5.1       (5)  I.    (5)  5.1            (4) 4.1           3.,1         (3)  20.0                (1) 1.0            29.6          -          -
Truks                                                     1,320            (5)  1.3       (3)  4.0       (4)  5.5       (4)  5.3      (4)  5.3         (35 4.             2.6         (2)  27.0                (15 1.3            29.1 
oda_ aed Saf_ri StatLi_ 1ag_o                               90             ()  0.         3    .5       ()2 ((3),        I.           3    ,          (3)  72.                        3)1.                    (3) 22(. 
Motor, Tyclo                                                 120           (2) 0.2        (4 )   .       (8)' 1.0       (0)  10       (8)1.0           (6)0.7             0.3         (41)   4.9               (7) 0.2             5.1--
Tr-coc   ao d Trailer                                        320           (2) 0.5        (13.1l         (6) 3.1        (6) 5.1       (6)  3.1         (6)35.1            2.1         (4) (8.1                     -              10.1-               
Vehicle Soe-ciin  Costs                                                            4.9           14.4           17.2           17.2          17.2            14.6           11.0               96.3                   5.2           101.7          40        40. 7
Totu   Ocut        ot                                                              10.5          23.7           30.2           31.7          32.0            29.4           25.8              182.8                  20.0           202.8          50        100.4
App-trle-d to Oil Pal. and Robber Pr-je-t 1                                          -            '4.6            7.8           '7.8         27.8       ~     7.8            17.8              43.6                   7.8             51.4         90         25.7
Apporti-ed to Coco  Ptoj..t                                                       10.5           18.6           _22.4          23.9          24.2            21.6           18.0              039.2                  12.7           131.4          50         73.
PERSONNEL CO.STS   2141.6                                                                           128.8          107.1          2
1/  Two-thirds of hadq-tt- office serice ...o.d two-thirds of -ebio    oP-rtini  nste of S Po-r whel drive sod 3 sedan  cod safari stuti-obgus.  1o your 1974/75
oil cots apparti-ud to coco  ST.
2/See Staffiug -ch.dule Ae... 7 Table 13.  After pl-oti.g Te-  1978/79 stuff is gad..lly ph-ad .ct.  M. phasing out would be  - -esay if u opre)eut will ho esected.



NIGERIA
SECOND COODA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE ROAD PROGRAM
Foreign
Unit                                                                                          Exchange
Cost            1974          1975           1976           1977           Total          %            Amount
N      ----=------      -       ----- (Miles) ----------------------
I.  Roads Improved                                                            100            200            200            100            600
-- --------------        ----- (N '000) ----------------------             -           - (N'000)--
II. Personnel Costs
Road Engineer                                           6,000    (0.5)  3.0       (1)  6.0       (1)  6.0   (0.5)  3.0               18.0
Assistant Surveyor                                      1,500    (1)    1.5       (2)  3.0       (2)  3.0   (1)    1.5                9.0
Draftsman (half time)                                     800   (0.5)  0.4        (1)  0.8       (1)  0.8   (0.5)  0.4                2.4
Clerk Typist                                              660   (0.5)  0.3        (1)  0.7       (1)  0.7   (0.5)  0.3                2.0
Laborer                                                   350   (6)    2.1    (12)  4.2         (12)  4.2   (6)    2.1               12.6
Driver                                                    600  (10)    6.0    (20) 12.0    (20) 12.0  (10)    6.0                    36.0
Equipment Operator                                        650   (6.5)  4.2    (13)  8.5         (13)  8.5   (6.5)  4.2               25.4
Operator helper                                           500   (6.5)  3.3    (13)  6.5    (13)  6.5   (6.5)  3.3                    19.6
Mechanic Driver                                           840   (0.5)  0.4        (1)  0.8       (1)  0.8   (0.5)  0.4                2.4
Mechanic's helper                                         500   (0.5)  0.3        (1)  0.5        (1)  0.5   (0.5)  0.3               1.6
Total Personnel Costs                                                 21.5          43.0           43.0           21.5            129.0           10            12.9
III. Equipment Operating Costs
Track-type Tractor                                      9-554   (2)    19.1       (4) 38.2       (4) 38.2   (2)   19.1              114.6
Motor Graders                                           4,811   (1.5)  7.2        (3) 14.4       (3) 14.4   (1.5)  7.2               43.2
Bucket Loaders                                          5,475   (1.5)  8.Z        (3) 16.4       (3) 16.4   (1.5)  8.2               49.2
Rubber-tired Rollers                                    3,360   (1.5)  5.0        (3) 10.1       (3) 10.1   (1.5)  5.0               30.2
Water Trucks                                            1,190   (1.5)  1.8        (3)  3.6       (3)  3.6   (1.5)   1.8              10.8
Dump Trucks                                             3,870   (5)    19.4    (10) 38.7    (10) 38.7   (5)   19.4                  116.2
Crew Trucks                                             1,350   (1.5)  2.0        (3)  4.1       (3)  4.1   (1.5)  2.0               12.2
Low Loader                                              1,194   (0.5)  0.6        (1)  1.2       (1)  1.2   (0.5)  0.6                3.6
Road Engineer Vehicle                                   1,350   (0.5)  0.7        (1)  1.4       (1)  1.4   (0.5)  0.7                4.2
Field Repair Truck                                      1,992   (0.5)   1.0       (1)  2.0       (1)  2.0   (0.5)   1.0               6.0
Fuel Truck                                              2,970   (0.5)   1.5       (1)  3.0       (1)   3.0   (0.5)  1.5               9.0
Operating Costs                                                         66.5          133.1          133.1           66.5           399.2
Suppliers Margin for Maintenance (10%)                                   6.7           13.3           13.3            6.7            40.0
Total Operating Cost                                                     73.2          146.4          146.4           73.2           439.2           40           175.7
IV.  Local Contracts for Small Civil Works                                    239.3         478.6          478.6           239.3        1,435.8            20           287,2
V.  Purchase of Equipment          I/ (See Table 15.)                        460.4           33.0            -              -             493.4           80           394.7
VI.  Maintenance  21 (( N 300)                                                  -             30.0           60.0          150.0           240.0           20            48.0
TOTAL WESTERN STATE ROAD PROGRAM                                        794.4          731.0          728.0          484.0         2,737.4           34           918.5
1/  Estimated residual value at the end of the construction program:  N 265,000
2/ Maintenance of project roads during extension of the road program included in project costs.



Table 15
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE ROAD PROGRAM
Equipment Requirements and Costs
Unit        Number
Equinment                              Cost       Required        Total
140 hp Track-type tractor                      34,300         4          148,176
Three-tooth rippers for above            2,900         2            6,264
100 hp Motor grader                            17,280         3           55,987
130 hp Front end, 2-1/2 cu.yd, bucket
loader                                  25,340         3           82,102
100 hp Rubber-tired roller                      6,400         3          .20736
125 hp Flat-deck truck with pump, water
tank and sprinkler bar                   5,020         3           16,265
3 cu.yd Dump truck                              6,500        10            70,200
Four-wheel-drive crew truck             3,800         3           12,312
Low loader                             17,000         1           18,360
Fouz-wheel-drive vehicle for
Road Engineer                          3,800          1            4,104
125 hp Flat-deck truck, equipped to
carry out field repairs                  7,000         1            7,560
125 hp Flat-deck truck, equipped to refuel
and servic  equipment in the field      6,000         1            6,480
Spare parts for all above equipment                                        44/ 85    /
Total                                                            =L93 *h
./ Unit costs increased by 8 percent to reflect prices at ent 1973.
/ At 10% of equipment value
N/ N 11,885 in 1974 and N 33,000 in 1975



NI GERIA
SECOND ~OCOA PROJECT
MID-WESTERN STATE ROAD PROGRAM COSTS
(N '000)
Foreign
Unit                                                               Exchange
Cost             1974           1975          Total           %          Amount
-ost  ----     Miles-------------
I.   Roads Improved                                                             21           42             63
-(__OO_)-----------(N'000)-----------------------------
II. Personnel Costs
Road Construction Supervisor                        3,000           (0.5)  1.5   (1)  3.0             4.5          -            -
Laborers                                              350           (2.0)  0.7   (4)  1.4             2.1          -            -
Drivers                                               600           (0.6)  1.0   (2)  1.2             1.8          -            -
Equipment Operators                                   650           (1.5)  1.0   (3)  2.0             3.0          -            -
Operator Helpers                                      500           (1.5L  0.8   (3)  1.5             2.3          -            -
Total Personnel                                                        4.6          9.1          13.7         10           1.4
III. Equipment Operating Costs
Track-type Tractor                                  9,554           (0.5)  4.8   (1)  9.6            14.4          -            -
Motor Grader                                        4,811           (0.5)  2.4   (1)  4.8             7.2          -            -
Rubber-tired Roller                                 3,360           (0.5)  1.7   (1)  3.4             5.1          -            _
Water and Fuel Truck                                1,968           (0.5)  1.0   (1)  2.0             3.0          -            _
Crew and Supervisor's Vehicle                       1,350           (0.5)  0,7   (1)  1.4             2.1          -            -
Operating Costs                                                            10.6        21.2          31.8          -            -
Suppliers margin for maintenance (10%)                                      1.1         2.11          3.2          -            -
Total Operating Costs                                               11.7        23.3           35.0         40          14.0
IV,  Local Contracts for Small Civil Works                                       107.5        215.1         322.6         20          64.5
V.  Purchase of Equipment (see Table 17)  /1                                      84.6         -            84.6          80         67.7
VI.  Maintenance 2/ (@ N 300/mile)                                                  -           6.3           6.3          20          1.3
TOTAL MID-WESTERN STATE ROAD PROGRAM                                        208.4       253.8          462.2          32        148.9
1/  Estimated Residual Value at the end of the construction program:  N 60,000
2/  Maintenance of project roads during road program execution included in project cost.
^                                                                                                       ^      H _,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



ANNEX7
Table 17
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MID-WESTERN STATE ROAD PROGRAM
Equipment Requirements and Costs
(N)
Unit          Number               1/
EquiPment                              Cost          Required        Total
1h0 hp Track-type tractor                   34,300            1            37,0e1
Three tooth ripper                    2,900            1            3,13
100 hp Motor Grader                          17,280            1            18,662
100 hp Rubber-tired roller                    6,400            1             6,912
125 hp Water and fuel truck                   6,500            1             7,020
Four wheel drive vehicle for crew
and Supervisor transport               3,800            1            4,10h
;nare parts for above   2/                                                  7,687
Total                                                            8h,561
/ Increased by 8% to reflect prices at end 1973
2/ At 10% of equipment value.






NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE
DETAILED FINANCING OF PROJECT COSTS
DisbaeG,eo                    C24             Categories of Proposd          Per Disbrs-et
Project Costs and Categories                       1974/75       1975/76       1976/77       1977/78        1978/79       1979/80       1980/81        Persod           1981/82    TOTAL                Bank Loan                     Scehdule
of Disburement                                -(O'05                                                                                                                                                      (0S$  205)           (US$ 0'D0)
BANK
CategorY S
L.acs to Farners - Total Cost                           203.1          635.4        1,762.5      1,430.5         900.2          733.6         4'7.R        6,093.1             -         6,093.1         -               -
Bank Disbursceset (80%)             162.5         50R.3        1,410.0      1,144.4          720.2         5R6.9         342.2        4,874.5             -         4,874.5       4,R74.5         7,409.3              7,400
Category II
Vehifles, Teastos, Sprayers                             280,0          223.3          245.7         35.1          21.9           11.9           2.5          820.4             -           820.4         -               -
Read Conet-rtion Esnipsent                              460.4           33.0          -            -               -              -             -            493.4               -         493.4
Tatal Colst                                          740.4          256.3          245.7         35.1          21.9          11.9            2.5        1,313.8             -        1,313.8          -               -                    _
Bank Disbursement (80%)                              592.3         205.0           196.6         28.1          17.5           9.5            2.0        1,051.0             -        1,051.0        1,050.0         1,597.5              1,600
Catee-ry III
Staff Salaries and Training                                6.4         536.9        1,165.9        832.7         642.0          493.4         250.0        3,027.3             -         3,927.3         -               -                    -
Building                                                347.1            3.8            2.3        -                -             -             -            353.2             _           353.2
Rood Pr-p'-n (less Equipnent)                           334.0          698.0          728.0        484.0           -              -             -          2.244.0             -         2.244,0
Total Costa                                          t87.5       1,230.7         1,896.2      1,316.7         642.0         493.4          250.0        6,524.5             -         6,524.5
Bank Disbur,semnt (45%)                              309.4          557.4          853.3        592.5         288.9         222.0          112.5        2,936.0                       2,936.0       2,936.0         4,462.8              4,450
Unallocated - Total                                         260.6         515.3        1,266.4      1,273.8          821.3         764.1         499.1        5,400.6             -         5,400.6
Bank Disbursenent                             94.6         187.1          459.8        462.5         298.2          277.4         181.2        1,960.8             -         1,960.8       1,960.8         2,980.4              3,000
Total Project Costs partly finanred by Bank               1,891.6       2,645.7        5,170.8      4,056.1        2,385.4       2,003.0       1,179.4       19,332.0             -        19,332.0                         -                     -
TOTAL BANK DISBURSEMENTS                                  1,158.8       1.457.8        2,919.7      2.227.5        1,324.8       1,095.8         637.9       10.822.3             -        10.822.3       10,822.3       16,450.0             16.450
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
SBaaer of the above rests of wkhih FGN
YaOUld finance  atound 80%                              732.8       1,187.9        2,251.1      1,828.6       1,060.6          907.2         541.4        8,509.7             -         8,509.7                          -                   -
Total FGN Dikabrsements  1/                                 518.9         816.8        1,473.2       1,133.3         635.8         527.9         304.1         5,410.0            -         5,410.0
WESTERN STATE GOVERNMENT
Balance of costs financed sbo-e                          213.9         371.1          777.9        695.3          424.8         379.3         237.4        3,099.7             -         3,099.7
Cents totally financed by WS Covern-ent
Sbsidies                                             32.7         147.6           429.0        626.3         320.3          239.3         129.9        1,925.1             -         1,925.1
Operating Casts                                       17.0           39.5           97.2         90.5           70.6          43.5          37.8          396.1             -           396.1
TOTAL WESTERN STATE                                         263.6         558.2        1.304.1      1.412.1          815.7         662.1         405.1         5,420,9            _         5,420.9                          -                    -
TOTAL FINANSCING                                          1,941.3       2.832.8        5.697.0      4,772.9        2,776.3       2,285,8       1,347.1        21.653,2             -       21,653.2          -               -                    _
1/  nee An.ne  8  Table 3 for details,



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
MID-WESTERN STATE
DETAILED FINANCING OF PROJECT COSTS
Total                                                                 Per
Disb.rsement                 GRAND       C.tegories of Proposed  Disburse.ent
Projeft Costs snd Categories               1974/75       1975/76     1976/77      1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81        Period       1981/82       TOTAL           SANE Loan                 Schedule
Of Disburse,ent        -----------------------------                                 -       -       (N  0001-o)---    -------------                   -     -           (N 000)   ~ !SS  o03 I..,,'
Category I
Loans to Farmers - Total Costs                  -           70.8        161.6       204.8        214.5        125.1         64.8         874.6          34.4         909.0
Bank Disbursements (80%)                        -           56.7        129.3       163.8        198.0        100.1        51.8          699.7           -           699.7        699.7       1.063.5          1.100
Category II
Vehicles, Tractors, Sprayers                   31.3         50.3         26.5        35.1         48.1         13.7         9.0          214.0           2.1         216.1          -             -               -
Road Construction Equipment                   84.6           -            -           -            -            -           -             84.6           -            84.6          -
Total Costs                                115.9          50.3         26.5        35.1         48.1         13.7         9.0          298.6           2.1         300.7          -             -               -
Bank Disbursements (80%)                    92.7          40.2         21.2        28,1         38.5         11.0         7.2          238.9           -           238.9         238.9        363.1            350
Category III
Staff Salaries and Tiaining                  142.1         129.3        187.7       212.3        229.7       177.7        118.1        1,196.9         104.7       1,301.6          -                             -
Building                                       62.0        107.6          -            -           -            -            -           169.6           -           169.6
Road Program (Less Equipment)                 123.8        253.8          -           -            -            -            -           377.6           -           377.6
Total Costs                                327.9         490.7        187.7       212.3        229.7        177.7       118.1        1,744.1         104.7       1,848.8
Bank Disbursements (45%)                   147.5         220.8         84.5        95.5        103.4        80.0         53.1          784.8           -           784.8         784.8    _l192.9            1,200
Unallocated - Total                               66.4         162.5       120.7        185.7       266.3        192.2        140.0       1,138.8            8.4      1,142.2
Bank Disbursements                35.8          87.7        65.2        100.3        143.8       103.8         75.5          612.1           -          612.1         612.1         930.5            900
Total of Project Costs partly
Financed by Bank                                510.2         774.3       496.5        637.9        791.6       508.7        331.9       4,051.1          149.6      4,20C.7           -            -                -
TOTAL BANE DISBURSEMENTS                            276.0         405.4        300.2       387.7        483.7       294.9        487.6        2,335.5           -         2.335.,5      2.335.5      3.550            3,530
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
Balance of the above costs of which
FGN would finance(around  80%)                  234.2         368.9       196.3        250.2        307.9       213.8        144.3        1,715.6         149.6      1,865.2           -             -               -
Total FGN Disbursements  1/                   168.8        249.7        123.3        148.2       171.8        117.4         76.2       1,055.4         114.6       1,170.0
MID-WESTERN STATE GOVERNMENT
Balance of Costs financed above                   65.4         119.2         73.0       102.0        136.1         96.4        68.1          660.2          35,0         695.2
Costs totally financed by MWS
Subsidies                                       -           23.4         52.0         66.6        83.4         44.2         26.9          296.5          14.0         310.5
Operating Costs                                10.5         18.6         22.4         23.9        24.2         21.6         18.0          139.2          12.2         151.4
Total 1lID-WESTERN STATE                              75.9        161.2        147.4        192.5       243.7        162.2        113.0        1,095.9          61.2      1,157.1
TOTAL FINANCING                                      520.7        816.3        570.9        728.4       899.2        574.5        376.8       4.486.8          175.8      4.662.6           -             -
1/ See Anne. 8, Table 3 for details.
-L is



-                                                                                                                                      AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEX8
NIGERIA                                                                            Table 3
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
Disbursement of Federal Military Govern ent Contribution
(Na.ri '000)
Tttib-e,                    GRAND        Categories of
1974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79     1979/80     1980/81       Period          1981/82      TOTAL        Dinboreent-t
A.  WESTERN STATE
Category 1
Tnt.1                               203.1       635.4     1,762.5     1,430.5       900.2       733.6       427.8        4,874.5            -        6,093.1
Bank (807%)                         162.5       508.3    1.410.0    l1J44.4         720.2       586.9        342.2       4.874.5            _        4,874.5
Balante                              40.6       127.1       352.5       286.1       180.0        146.7        85.6       1,218.6            -        1,218.6
FldC (807 of Balance)                32.5       101.6       282.0       228.9        144.0       117.4        68.5         974.9            -          974.9       974.9
Category 11
Total                               740.4       256.3       245.7        35.1        21.9        11.9          2.5       1,313.8            -        1,313.8
Bank (80%)                          592.3       205.0       196.6        28.1        l7.5         9.5          2.0       1,051.0            _        1,051.0
Balance                             148.1        51.3        49.1         7.0         4.4         2.4          0.5         262.8            -          262.8
FMG (807. no Balance)               118.5        41.0        39.3         5.6         3.5         1.9          0.4         210.2                       210.2       210.2
CategOry III
Total                               687.5     1,238.7     1,896.2     1,316.7       642.0       493.4        250.0       6.524.5            -        6,524.5
Bank (457)                          309.4       557.4       853.3       592.5       288.9        222.0       112.5       2.936.0            -        2,936.0
Balance                             378.1       681.3     1,042.9       724.2       353.1       271.4        137.5       3,588.5            -        3,588.5
FMG (80% nf Balance)                302.5       545.0       834.3       579.4       282.5       217.1        110.0       2,870.8                     2,870.8    2,870.8
Elnallocated
Totol                               260.6       515.3     1,266.4     1,273.8       821.3        764.1       499.1       5,400.6            _        5,400.6
Bank                                 94.6       187.1       459.8       462.5       298.2        277.4       181.2       1.960.8                     1 1.960.8
Ba3 nce                             166.0       328.2       806.6       811.3       523.1       486.7       317.9        3,439.8            _        3,439.8
FMG                                  65.4       129.2       317.6       319.4       205.8       191.5        125.2       1,354.1            -        1,354.1    1,354.1
Tatal FM8  Conrtibution                519.9       816.8     1.473.2     1.133.3       635.8       527.9        304.1       5.410.0            -        5,410.0    5
B.  041D-WFST STATE
Category I
Total                                            70.8       161.6       304.8       247.5       125.1         64.8         874.6           34.4        909.0
Bank (807)                            -          56.7       129.3       163.8       198.0       100.1         51.8         699.7            -          699.7
Balance                               -          14.1        32.3        41.0        49.5        25.0         13.0       1,174.9           34.4        209.3
F51 (80% of B1lanc-)                  -          11.3        25.8        32.8        39.6        20.0         10.4         139.9           27.5        167.4       167.4
CateRooy I1
Total                               115.9        50.3        26.5        35.1        48.1         13.7         9.0         298.6            2.1        300.7
Bank (807.)                          92.7        40.2        21.2        28.1        38.5         11.0         7.2         238.9            _           238.9
Balance                              23.2        10.1         5.3         7.0         9.6          2.7         1.8          59.7            2.1         61.8
F0'G (805  f B al...e)               18.6         8.1         4.2         3.6         7.7          2.2         1.4          47.8            1.7         49.5        49.5
Categorv 00I
Tota1                               327.9       490.7       187.7       212.3       229.7        177.7       118.1       1,744.1          104.7      1,84808
Bank (457.)                         147.5       220.8        84.5        95.5       103.4        80.0         53.1         784.8            -          784.8
Balance                             180.4       269.9       103.2       116.8        126.3        97.7        65.0         959.3          104.7       1,064.0
FMG (807. of Balance)               144.3       215.9        82.6        93.4       101.0        78.2         52.0         767.4           83.8        851.2       851.2
Unallocated
Total                                66.4       162.5       120.7       185.7       266.3        192.2       140.0       1,133.8            8.4      1,142.2
lank                                 35.8        87.7        65.2       100.3       143.8       103.8         75.5         621.1            -          621.1
Balance                              30.6        74.8        55.5        85.4       122.5        88.4         64.5         512.7            8.4      1,530.1
Fb'G                                  5.9        14.4        10.7        16.4         23.5        17.0        12.4         100.3            1.6         101.9      101.9
Total F0G Contribution                 168.8       249.7       123.3       148.2       171.8        117.4        76.2       1,055.4          114.6      1.170.0



ANNE 
Table 4
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE OF BANK LOAN
(US$ '000)
Western State          Mid-Western State           Total         Cumulative Total
FY 75   Quarter 1             770                        190                  960               960
Quarter 2            510                        130                  640              1,600
Quarter 3            510                        130                  640              2,240
Quarter 4            510                         130                 640              2,880
FY 76   Quarter 1             920                        190               1,110              3,990
Quarter 2            620                        130                  750             4,740
Quarter 3            620                        130                  750              5,490
Quarter 4            620                        130                  750              6,240
FY 77   Quarter 1           1,400                        160                1,560             7,800
Quarter 2            930                        110                1,040             8,840
Quarter 3            930                        110                1,040             9,880
Quarter 4            930                        110                1,040            10,920
FY 78   Quarter 1           1,000                        210                1,210            12,130
Quarter 2            680                        140                  820             12,950
Quarter 3            680                        140                  820             13,770
Quarter 4            680                        140                  820             14,590
FY 79   Quarter 1             640                        220                  860            15,450
Quarter 2            430                        150                  580            16,030
Quarter 3            430                        150                  580            16,610
Quarter 4            430                        150                  580            17,190
FY 80   Quarter 1             500                        140                  640            17,830
Quarter 2            330                         90                  420            18,250
Quarter 3            330                         90                  420             18,670
Quarter 4            330                         90                  420             19,090
FY 81   Quarter 1             240                         70                  310            19,400
Quarter 2            160                         40                  200             19,600
Quarter 3            160                         40                  200             19,800
Quarter 4            160                         40                  200            20,000
Total          16,450                      3,550               20,000



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
CASH FLOW TO THE FARMER
Four Acres of New Planting Cocoa,
YEAR    1          2         3           4         5          6            7                                                              17            13            1
Acreage Planted                                      2         -         2           -         -           -           -          -            -            -             -           -             _             _
Yield of Cocoa (lbs/ac)                              -                    -         100       200        350          550        700          850          850          850          850           850           850
Total Farm Production                                -         -         -          200       400        900        1,500      2,100        2,800       3,100         3,400        3,400         3,400        3,400
Sources of Funds
Sale of Cocoa (X 400/T.)                         -          -         -          36         71        161         268         375         500          554           607          607          607           607
Cocoa Development Loan                          95         42       117          66         22         24          -           -            -           -             -            -             -            -
Total Sources of Funds                         95        42        117         102         93        185         268         375         500          554           607          607          607           607
Applications of Funds
On-farm Cost - Hired Labor                      60         30        72          40         22         22          30          34           42          44            44           44            44            44
- Material                        35        12        45           26        35         43           60         76           90          100          117          123            72            72
Total On-Farm Costs                            95        42        117          66         57         65          90         110         132          152           161          167          167           167
Return before Debt Service                          -         -         -            36        36         120         178        265          368          402          446          440           440           440
Debt Service   1/
Without Capitalized Interest                      9        13        24          30         32         34           82         82           82           82           82           82            -             -
With Capitalized Interest                       -          -         -            -         -          45          110        110          110         110           110          110            -             -
Net Cash Flow
Without Capitalized Interest                     (9)      (13)      (24)           6         4         86           96        183          286          320          364          358           440           440
With Capitalized Interest                       -          -         -            36        36         75           68        155          258          292          336          330           440           440
Number of MD employed (per acre)                67         26        24           20        26         28           42         45           45           45            45          45            45            45
on the 4 acres                            134        52       182           92       100          96         136         146         174          180           180          180           180           180
Less Hired MD included in the
on-farm costs                              60        30         72          40        22          22          30          34          42           44            44           44            44            44
Family Labor                               74        22       110           52        78          74         106         112         132          136           136          136           136           136
2/
Average Net Earnings of Family Labor (N/MD)   -               -          -            0.12       0.05       1.16         0.91       1.63         2.17         2.35         2.68         2.63          3.23          3.23
Average Net Earnings of Family Labor (N/MD)3/ -               -          -            0.69       0.46       1.01         0.64       1.38         1.96         2.14         2.47         2.42          3.23          3.23
1/  9.25% interest rate per annum, 6 years grace for principal asd option to capitalize for 5 years and repayments after Year  6 in equal installment.                                                                    -Ix
2/  Without capitalized interest                                                                                                                                                                                          - 'o
3/ With capitalized interest.



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
CA2I1 FLOW TO THE FARMER
Four Acres of Replanted Cocoa 1/
(N)
YEAR          1         2         3            4         5           6            7          8            9            10            11           12            13            14
Acreage Planted                                      -         2          -           2          -          -            -          -            -            -             -            -             -             -
Yields of Cocoa (lbs/ac)                             -         -         -            -        100         200          350        500          650          750           750          750           750           750
Total of farm production                             -         -         -            -        200         400          900      1,400       2,000        2,500         2,800        3,000         3,000         3,000
Sources of Funds
Sales of Cocoa (N 400/T.)                        -          -         -            -         36          71         161         250         357          446           500          536           536           536
Cocoa Development Loans                          36        61         70           91        66         30           32                -            -            -             -            -           -        -
Total Sources of Funds                               36        61         70          91        102        101          193        250          357          446           500          536           536           536
Application of Funds
On-Farm Costs  - llired Labor                    20         30        44           50        42          30          30          30          34           42            44           44            44            44
- Material                      16        31        26           41         24         35           43         60           76           90           103          111           111           111
Total On-Farm Costs                                  36        61        70           91         66         65           73         90          110          132           147          155           155           155
Return before Debt Service                           -         -         -            -          36         36          120        160          247          314           353          381           381           381
Debt Service    2/
Without capitalized interest                      3          9        15           24        30          33          36          87           87          87             87          87            87             -
With capitalized interest                        -          -         -            -         -           -           -          127          127         127            127         127           127             -
Net Cash Flow
Without capitalized interest                      (3)       (9)      (15)         (24)        6           3          84          73          160         227            266         294           294           381
With capitalized interest                        -          -         -            -         36          36         120          33          120          187           226         254           254           381
Number of MD employed                                60        80        114         118         94         88           94         136         144          176           180          180           '80           180
Less  Hired MD included in on-farm costs             20        30        44           50         42         30           30          30          34           42            44           44            44            44
Family Labor                                  40        50         70          68         52         58           64         106         110          134           136          136           136           136
Average Net Earnings of Family Labor (N/MD)3/ -                -          -           -           0.12        0.05        1.31        0.68         1.45         1.69          1.95         2.16          2.16          2.80
Average Net Earnings of Family Labor (N/MD)4/ -                -          -           -           0.69        0.62        1.88        0.31         1.09         1.39          1.66         1.87          1.87          2.80
I/  This model excludes replanting in areas of mass infection where around the area to be replanted a cordon sanitaire of 30 meters needs to be established.
This represents an additional clearing of 4.2 acres of 15 MD/acre or an additional N 15.75/acre of cocoa, or an additional cost (with hired labor) of N 63 in Year 1.                                                 X 
2/  9.257, interest per annum, 7 years grace for principal, option to capitalize interest for seven years and repayment after Year 7 in annual equal installements.                                                        a,m
3/  Without capitalized interest.                                                                                                                                                                                          aX
4/  With capitalized interest.                                                                  



V
NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
WESTERN STATE GOVERMEOENT CASH FLOW
1974/75   1 75'78   1976177   1977/7t   19787t '9       179/O   1980/81   1981/82   1982183   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87    1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91    91 1 /97   19Q7/99                  19931p6  109/. /95-
-/88  -  -     -                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2083 984
IBRD Loan                                      1,158,8   1,457.8   2,919.7   2,227.5   1,324.8   1,095.8           637.9         -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          _          _          _          _           -
rG  ratnta                                       518.9      816.8   1,473.2   1,133.3        635.8       527.9      304,1
Export taxes       1/                               -         -          -         18.4       76.3       248.4     449.5       709.0      983.1   1,148.6   1,269.9   1.269.9   1,269.9   1,269.9   1,269.9   1,269.9   1,269.9   1,269.9   1,269.9   1,269.9   1,269.9
Marketing Board Surplus   2/                        -          -          -         17.4       71.9      234.1      423.7      668.3      926.7   1,082.7   1,197.0   1,197.0   1,197.0   1,197.0   1,197.0   1,197.0   1,197.0   1,197.0   1,197.0   1,197,0   1,197,0
Repaymant Fa-rer Loans    3/                      15.9       66.7      142.8      226.3      314,0      378.0      469.0       722,1   1,129.1   1,295,6   1,295.6   1,295.6   1,214.4           862.7      253.4         -          -          -          -           -          -
TOTA8L INFLOW                                      1.693.6   2,341,3   4.535,7   3,622,9   2.422.8   2.484,2   2,284.2   2,099,4   3,038.9   3.526,9   3.762,5   3,762.5   3,681.    3,329.6   2,720.3   2.466.9   2.466.9   2,486.    2466.9   2,466,9   2.466.9
OUTFLOW
projent Costs
plaoting/roplstting Credits  4/                  203.1      635.4   1,762.5   1,430.5        900.2       733.6      427.8        -          -          -          -          -                                                                        -                -
Bobsidio-                                         32.7      147.6      429.0      626.3      320.3       239.3      129.9
Sprep-rs                                          34.0       72.9      124.4         -          -          -          -          _          _          _          _          _          _           _          _          _          _          -           _          _
Btlff Balarios and Training                         6.4     536.9   1,165.9       832.7      642.0      493.4       250.0
Buildings                                        347.5        3.8        2.3         -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -           _          _          -          _           -          _          _
ohiolls                                         246.8      10.4       121.23      35.1        21.9       15.9        2.5        -          -                     -----------
Opetrting Costs                                    17.0      3995       97.2        90.5       70.6       45.9       37.8        -                                                                                        _                                 _ 
Road Progr-n                                     794.4      731.0      728.0      484.0         -          -          -
ConEingonclos                                    260.6      515.3   1.266.4   1,27328        821.3       764.1     699,1         _          _-  -_ -              -                                 _ -  -                           _ -  -      -          -
Total                                      1,941.3   2,832.8   5,697.0   4,772,9   2,776.3   2,285.8   1,347.1               -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -          _          _          _          -           _          -
Susbidios                                           -          -          -          -         20.2      104.3      335.2      560.6      690.2      815.6      965.7      999.8      999.8       999.8      999.8      999.8      999.8      999.8       999,8      999.8      999.8
Projent AdainistraEtin   7/                         -         -           -          -          -          -          -        262.5      230.5      202,5      202.5      202.5      202.5       202.5      202.5      202.5      202.5      202.5       202.5      202,5      202.5
R8pay..Et IBRD Losn
Cqpmqitment Ch-rgo    8/                           72.5      61.5        39,6       22,9       13.0        4.8
lInoreat    9/                                    84.6      189.7      401.4       56279     658,9
Principal ond InterettC   10/       __                              _         _          _      1,195,3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1.195.3 1,195.3   1,195.3   1,9953   1,195.2   1195,3    1,1935,    1,195593   1,195.3   1,195.3
Total                                          156.5      251,2      441.0      585.8      671.9   1,200.1   1,195,3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3   1,195.3                          -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                      2,097.8   3,          4590 I  0   5,358,7    3,468,4   3,593.2   2.877.6   2.018.4   2,116.0   2,213.S 4        ,3' 3,3   2,3.97,6   2.3.7,6   2,397j6    23           2,3.6   2,397A          2397,6   2,397.6    2,397,6   1.202,3
8utpluR/(Deficit)                                   (404.2)   (742.7) (1,602.3) (1,735.8) 71,049.6) (1,106.0)   (593.4)            81.0      922,9   1,313,5   1,990   1,34.9             283.7      932.0       522.7       69.3       69.3       69,3       69.3        69.3   1,264.6
C-onlative SBrplos (Ueficit)                        (402.2) (1,146.97  (2,749.27  (4,485.0) (5,550.6  (6,636.6) (7,230.0) (7,149.0) (6,226.1) (4,912.6) (3,513.6) (2,178.7) (1,865.0) (  (67.0)    389.7                    459.0      528.3       597.6      666.9      736.2      1l/
1/  At a Neo  York spat prUie of US$nt 44.4/lb, -onoFOB -1.am   In Nig-ia i. Wa 588.88.   An  Export too of 10% yiolds tan.s  t N 58.88 per long ton.
2/ At a Neo  York spot prUie of US$ nt 44.4/lb,  -prplna is 8 69.37 per long ton (-ec Anoco 2, Tahle 2),  Asonnod 80-. apportionod to Stato Onorroont
3/   Toterostat 7.257 and pninnipsl repovod by Cooper-tiEe Trust and/on ACC.
4/  Cast to fansnr fon oNioh hN  -ico-es  -edit.
2/  BuSbidi-s on agri-ulntrsI inputs du-ing fild  -stxblish..nt t
6/  SnbEidios on agri-nltural inp-te sftor field  -tsablsh-nt.
7/ Aftnr projont poriod.
8/ At throo-qu.rtter  of 17. on undiobi-ro-d .o-nt of IBRD Loan.
8/  At 7    for 5 y-ars on disburFrd IBR0  loan. L.
10/ 1 10,822.3 thonsand at 30 oq.xl 6 nonthly insEallotU    of in-r-Rt and principal over 15 y-E5,
11/ N 13,382.2 thoosand by y-ar 2003/04.



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA POOJElY
MIO-ROST STATE GOVESRNKENT CANSH FLOW
(Nairs '000)
1974/75    1975/76   1976/77   1977/79    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/83   1985/86   1986/87   1987/S8   1900/05    1989/SO    1990/91   1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95-2003/04
19R0 L..o                                       270.0       405.4       300.2      297.7      403.7       294.9       187.6         -          -           -           -          -           -          ------                                                                                  -
P9M1 Grant                                      169.0       249.7       123.3      148.2       071.8      117.4        76.0      114.6          -          -           -          --                                 -------
Export T-xt        1/                              -          -           -          -           3.9       15.1        33.5        62.1      001.2       131.3      180.9       211.6       223.4      223.4       223.4       223.4       2034   03.4      223.4       223.4         223.4 
Marketing Boad S-rPlus         2/-                            -           -          -           3.7        34.2       33.4        58.6        39.4      142.7       178.1      199.9       210.6      210.6       210.6       210.6       210.6      210.0       210.6       210.6           21.
Rsps9nyo  Parser. Loans        3/.                            5 .2       16.9       30.1        46.4       57.4        40.7      503.0       174.3       193.4      193.4       193.4       193,4      133.4        29.0         -           -           -          ---
Tonal INFLOW                                        444.0      660.3       440.4      566.0        009.2     499,0       395.        3395        370.9      487.6       56004      604.5       627.4       549.4      483.0       434.0       434.0       434.0      434.0       43.440
OUTFLOW
Plaortxg/Etplsotiog Credits    4/                  -         70.0       161.6      204.0       247.5      125.1        04.0        34.4        -           ----                                                      -------
SokeOdOas  2/                      -         ~~~~~       ~~~~~      ~~~~~      ~~~~~23.4  52.0  464  9 3.4  44.2  26.9  14.0    -                      --                     ---------
Oprayera                           2.3        ~~~~       ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~~~        ~     ~    ~      ~    ~~7.  9.7  4.  4.9  - - -  -        ----------
StaE iaals  and Toailntg                     142.1       129.       10.        213         22.         177.       110.1       104.7         -           --                                 ---------
Iotidtngs                                        62.0       107.0         -          -           -          -           -           -           -                      -----------
VakBoles                                         28.8        42.9        14.8       37.2        43.        13.7         9.          2.1         -          ---                                -                       -------
Iperting Costa                                    10.5       10.6        20.4       2 3.,9      24.2       21.6        10.0        12.02                                                                                                                                           
Road Progran                                    208.4       2533.0        -          -           -          -           -           -           -          -----                                                                 ------
Cootiooonoinx                       ~~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~66.4  102.5  120.7  105.7  266.3  192.2    14 0.          8.64                                                                                                                                          
Total                                        520.2       906.3      570.9       720.4      09 9 .2     574.3       376.0      125.8                     ---                                -                      -------
Sob.idios       6/                                 -          -           -          -           -         14.4        41.6        49.9      107.9       224.3      141,3       159.0       163.5      169.2       163.2       163.2       162.2      163.2       165.2       145.1           165.
Project Adxlo;irt-ti-   7/                         -          -           -          -           -          -           -           -        104.3        90.0        07.5       77.5        72.5        77,5       77.5        77.5        77.5        77.5       77.8        775     77.1 5
RspaY-nst I380 L.a.
C.-itl...xr Charge                                15.4       12.4        10.2        7.2         3.6         2.2        -           -           --                                 ----------
Int-rot                                           20,0       49.4        71.2       99.3       134.3         -          -           -                      ----------
Petextpol sod Iotsr-t                              -          -           -          -           -        23752. 9    237.9      257.9       279          979         3.959 2522.9                     257.9       097.9       257.         3.          9.         5.          9. 
Total                                         33.4        61.0        81.4      106.5      137.9       260.1       257.9      257.9       297.9       237.9      257.9       257.9      257.0       257.9       017.9       297.9       257.9      257.9       297.9       257.9              -
TOTAL IIOPLOWO                                      554.1      078.1       652.3       934L.9    [.037.1      84.9 .0    676.3       303.6       470.3      47.2        47.         4.94.4     498. 9      50.          0.          0.          0.         0.          0.          9.4.
toenliss/(OnEloit)                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(111.33    (217.8)    (211.9)    (260.97    (327.6)    (350.0)    (200. 9)    (104.5)  509.47  15.4      03. 7      110.1      120.5        68.8       (32.65)    (66.6)       '66.6)     (66.6)      (6.6)       (66.6)          191.3
(111.3)    (329.1)    (341.07    (209.95  (1,137.5) (1,487.3) (1,760.4) (1,902.9) (1,972.3) (1,95n.9) (1,873.20  (1,763.1) (1,634.6) (1,560.92  (1,603.4) (1,678.0) (1,736.6) (1,803.2) (1,969.9) (1,936,4),                                   l1/
I./  At aNSe  York spot prite of 05$ tt 44.4/14,. ...os FOB -1-o  in Nige-ia is N 598.08.  An e-por  Ion ot lOT, yields te.op  t1 0 58.98 pee long CO..
2/  At aN.. York spot  nto  of 05$ -t 44.4/lb, s-rplus is N 69.37 pot long ton (S-e Anne  2. Table 2).
Ass-nd 907 ap-ortonod to Ststn  Covoo-tot.
3/  Interet or 7.251 end prlnoipal ropsynd by Cr0.
4/  Cost to fare  Per phioh he ropiv-  t-edOt.
5/  Oukedixa oo agont linpu~ts dotiog field enroblish-eor
6/Sobstditex oogri-o tLro 1 inPoto d-riog field p-rebliabhant.
7/After projoot period.
9/AL th-e-q-et-P  of 17, on oodisb--sd 80000  of 1000 Loo.-
9/  At 7kl Per 5 years on disb(r5pod IBR5 Lean
10/  N 2,333.5 rhoo..sod 01 30  qoaI 6  -othln  -tnsrll-xts oIf inrer-t sod proia vr15 Y-r..
II/  (N23.4  L        e .. di    y  200304.



NIGERIA
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
IFMG - CASH FLOW
(N'aira '0oee
1974/75      1975/76        1976/77         1977/78        1978/79         1979/80         1980/81          1981/82          1982/83          15Q3/84       1984/85-1993/94
INFLOW
IBRD Loan                          1,434.8        1,863.2        3,219.9        2,615.2         1,808.5         1,390.7           825.5            -                -                _
Repayment 3/
By Western State Government  1/   156.5             251.2          441.0           585.8           671.9        1,200.1         1,195.3          1,195.3          1,195.3          1,195.3           1,195.3
By Mid-West State Government 2/    35.4              61.8           81.4           106.5           137.9          260.1           257.9            257.9            257.9             257.9            257.9
Total                               191.9         313.0          522.4          692.3           809.8         1,460.2         1,453.2          1,453.2          1,453.2          1,453.2          1,453.2
TOTAL  INFLOW                          1,626.7       2,176.2        3,742.3         3,307.5         2              2,850.9         2,278.7          1,453.2          1,453.2           1,453.2
OUTFLOW
Onlending IBRD Loan
To Western State                   1,158.8        1,457.8        2,919.7         2,227.5        1,324.8         1,095.8           637.9            -                -                 -                _
To Mid-West State                     276.0         405.4          300.2           387.7           483.7          294.9           187.6            -                 -                -                 _
Total                          1,434.8        1,836.2       3,219,9         2,615.2         1,808.5         1,390.7           825.5            -                -
FMC Grant
To Western State                      518.9         816.8        1,473,2         1,133.3           635.8           527.9           304.1           -                 -                -                _
To Mid-West State                     168.8         249.7          123.3           148.2           171.8           117.4            76.2           114.6             -                -                _
Total                           687.7        1,066.5       1,596.5         1,261.5           807.6           645.3           380.3            114.6            -                 -                -
Repayment IBRD Loan 3/                   191,9          313.0         522.4           692.3           809.8         1,460.2         1,453.2         1,453.2           1,453.2          1,453.2          1,453.2
Total Outflow                          2,314.4       3,242,7        5,338.8         4,569.0         3,425.9         3,496.2         2,659,0          1,567.8          1,453.2          1,453.2          1,453.2
Surolus/Deficit                         (687.7)     (1,066.5)      (1,596.5)       (1,261.5)         (807.6)         (645.3)         (380.3)          (114.6)                            -                 -
1/ See Annex 10, Table 1
2/  See Annex 10, Table 2
3/  Commitment charge, interest  and capital (after 5 years grace).






REPLANTING AREAS
f7         \  L113NEW PLANTING AREAS
AREAS OF MASS INFECTION
-.g.i~: \(with swollen shoot dosease)
(                                           \                       O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10  20   30   40   50
3                                   S       >                         r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~n- boule h.,, on th, -p do not  
/J 
1'   (                   m                                  <         >   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ado 'SFkiti   ~
/                                                -J    '-  '\% r _ _ < ) S t S   W )   :    e -  -
!  ,--                       - ,,  i  byOndo  th(
*    +~~~___                                0[°jebu-Ode                       OIPLMRJET              >J..          NIF~
NIGE~~~~~ R IA                                                           N IGERIA
0 ~ ~  ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     0
W EST ERN S TATE_:                                                    t     WESTERN                          r._
. ~S E CON D  CO C OA P ROsJ E C T                                                       \                  .STATE MIS-
PROJECT AREAS                                        <l CA M E
-~~~~~






5'00                                    tj0           /                       6'00'                                     30
NIGERIA                                                                             4-
MID -WESTERN STATE                                                                                                                  LOK
SECOND COCOA PROJECT '_                                                                               KEKbba
Z    31  CocoE  G,r.ong A-eo
Proposed Project Feeder Roads                                             \
leearrel  Reg,on el Umrts                                                            s 
t         Westerr  -nd MWd-WVeste-o Stete OdI Pqle  Prelects es                               _ -. 
-         Trunk Roeds                                                                      / -t RLd            Okene
-7°30                      Peved Roeds                                                                 f                                                                             o:'o
FE     Stese Cp,tels . 1
Lij    Provnceal 3Heodq.erters                     I               A-                  AK      K         ' EvDO7
*      Droisronel Heedgoerters                                                    _                      3-       8        >1?)                       )
o      Tows end Vdileges                          N
-  - -    PrSorwoel B- onderes             C(-                                    I.
.  -  Dovisionot BoonderOes                |                          )              ° p                      E  T S  A   KO
eC---oT   Rivers                                                                                                   I Q                 Agnebede 7
0    10   20   30                   4  S    !>  O~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                ~~~~~~ W A N  1  _gd.k 
To  jboOd                      -)    -    o
-7- 00'                       MILES                                                  v              U (  47bbp             .71:00l°
02,0                 4,0           6,0                              \*fe.. I .(p
- 0                              o                                                   - -                                                                                  no.30
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ k 1ONITY  _Ht.A 
s --Tscrs7-v-ds > 1( '- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. /'\gsake......2--..........   L
5 00   , *                                                                               U ,  '   ¢   - i  U R H 1 ° B O V  Usere, /.¢<~ - Ocsesh,- b  h  T
ioo'                       .hX        ,-A                 ',  '    ,-' .,                          -   .-Xt               .  .
O'\^ ^~OR IR                                                                               S T E R        N Nj. .
13N
-                                 A        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
5 r .  N I G E R I A             .'            1. AW                                           <                              A  S  A-oo'
6e0,0   -''                    CAMRR'OP0
Go O.re        >\-C-WE R J3        5a'ooeen                          <-Wr\,g V
trtetot,te o-#/mn  t  r U.    C A M E R O O te   i.                                                                        3c!   - .t  -  _f   >4or    '        z
ov/f ef  ,   >                              se30 '<.r;          ,                /r 6-00;2. 4             >       ,;         6430                                   u 



