I I I  ~  ., 1t1ur r                       vv'ULf I UUJ I
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMWENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1465-UNI
REPORT AND RECONENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERPAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SECOND COCOA PROJECT
June lo, 1974
T h i s  report D s   p r e p+ e d   for  officialu se   o n lY   b y   th e   B a n k   G o   t   ma y
accuacyor Cri11etee~ f th reort  Te Bank Group does not accnt e pUbilqoe



Currency Equivalents
US$1.00        =    Naira (N) 0.66
N1.00             US$1.52
Nl million        US$1.52 million
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31



INTERN\ATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
RlPORT kND) RECOMM¶ENDATION OF THE PRESIDIENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSEI) LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR 'LE SECOND COCOA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nigeria for the equivalent of US$20.0 million to help finance cocoa dev-
elopment in the Western and Mid-Western States of Nigeria.   The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period, with interest
of 7-1/4 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be used principally
for on-lending to some 27,000 small farmers through cooperatives or farmers'
unions for replanting and new planting of cocoa. Loans to beneficiaries
would be at 9-1/4 percent per annum, or such other rate as the Borrower and
the Bank may determine, repayment being in 12 years with a grace period of
six years for new planting, and 13 years including a grace period of seven
years for replanting.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Current Economic Position and Long-Term
Prospects of Nigeria" (AW-35a) dated June 9, 1972, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 20, 1972 (R72-169). An up-dating economic mis-
sion visited Nigeria in August - September 1973, and its major findings are
reflected in the following paragraphs and the country data sheet attached
as Annex T.
Recent Developments
3.        The most striking feature of Nigeria's economic performance in the
last three years is the remarkably rapid recovery from the dislocations and
disruptions caused by the civil war. GDP rose by nearly 50 percent in the two
years immediately following the war. This exceptionally high growth obviously
included a large element of "catching-up" as the economy responded to the
pent-up demands of the civil war period and as investment and production which
had been postponed during the hostilities were rapidly realized. As this
phase came to a close, a decline in the rate of growth to more normal levels
was to be expected. Moreover, during 1972 and 1973, agricultural production
was adversely affected by drought in the Northern States, and the output of
some manufacturing industries (e.g., textiles and footwear) fell as a result
of intensified competition from imports, following the policy of liberaliza-
tion introduced in early 1972. As a result, GDP at factor cost is estimated
to have risen by about eight percent in 1972/73. Growth in 1973/74 may
be in the range of six-seven percent. It is, however, significant that,
despite the civil war, the drought of the last two years and the impact of
import liberalization on industries, the country's GDP during 1970/71
through 1972/73 was about 45 percent higher than in the three years immedi-
ately preceding the war. The implied growth rate during the period 1964-66



to 1970-72 (6.3 percent a year) compares favorably with the six percent
attained during the fifties and earl' sixties.
4.        This rapid economic recovery resulted mainly from expansion of
petroleum mining.   Crude oil. productior, rose from around 630,000 barrels
per day (bbls/day) in early 1970 to 1.6 million bbls/day in early 1972 and
2.0 million bbls/day by mid-1973.   Government services too increased quickly
on the basis of considerable growth of revenues from the oil sector. On the
average, manufactures also grew faster than total output. However, petroleum
production is an enclave activity, and manufacturing and modern services
afford employment for a small share of the labor force. Nigeria essentially
remains an agricultural economy, in spite of substantial shift in the composi-
tion of output since the period immediately before the civil war. Agriculture
accounted for 46 percent of domestic product in 1971/72 (i.e., prior to the
increase in oil prices) and employed some 70 percent of the labor force.     Con-
sequently, Nigeria's per capita income largely reflects the low productivity
of its traditional agriculture (see paras. 28-31) and is estimated to be only
about $140.
5.        The considerable growth of domestic product and income in recent
years was accompanied by similar increases in all major components of aggre-
gate expenditure.   In real terms, exports in thie last three years have aver-
aged about twice the pre-war levels; imports increased by almost 90 percent,
investment by over 65 percent, and consumption expenditures by about 50 percent.
Per capita real consumption and the rate of investment are well above pre-war
levels. Private sector investments have been high in both oil and non-oil
activities, especially manufacturing among the latter.    Public investment of
N 270 million in 1972/73 was nearly twice the 1970/71 level and about 30 per-
cent more than in 1965/66. Hlowever, implementation of the public investment
program contained in the Second Development Plan is behind schedule due part-
ly to a delay of ten months in the issuance of the Plan and, more significant-
ly, to inadequate executive capacity for project preparation and implementation.
The Plan, originally intended to cover 1970/71 - 1973/74, has been extended
by one year, and the latest estimates of the investment program are some 75
percent above original estimates. The Government's flexible approach to Plan
implementation is encouraging, especially when one considers the circumstances
in which the Plan was devised.
6.        The balance of payments has shown a sustained and marked improve-
ment, mainly as a result of the continued rapid growth in petroleum earnings.
Following a major increase in 1971, commodlity imports, especially capital
goods imports, declined in 1972.   The Government continued to utilize the
foreign exchange surplus to reduce short-term foreign indebtedness and to
relax further the restrictions on paymetnts for imports and the repatriation
of dividends. In 1973/74 the restrictions on import payments introduced in
1971 were abolished and the repatriation of accumulated dividend arrears
for 1971 and Up to 25 percent of the diviclends accruing for 1972 was permit-
ted. Gross official foreign exchange reserves at the end of March 1974 stood
at about N 800 million (US$1,230 million), equivalent to about seven months'
imports of goods and non-factor services.



- 3 -
7.        The economy seems to have overcome the strong inflationary ten-
dencies noticeable in the immediate post-war period. Prices actually fell
during the second half of 1972, so that the annual rate of price increase
for Lagos in fiscal 1972/73 was only three percent compared to 13.6 percent
in fiscal 1971/72. Prices in 1973 have again shown a rising
trend mainly as a result of drought which has affected food supplies. The
fall in the rate of inflation reflects the combined effect of the recovery
of production in the eastern states, the easier availability of imports and
the Federal Government's surplus budgetary position. The Government's short-
term indebtedness to the Central Bank had been an important element among the
inflationary forces in previous years, but during 1972 Government indebtedness
declined and there was a moderate increase in credit to the private sector.
8.        The overall fiscal position is strong.   The increase in revenues
from the petroleum sector was the major factor in the transformation from
a huge budget deficit in 1969/70 to substantial surplus in 1971/72. Oil
revenues increased from N 70 million in 1969/70 to N 730 million in 1972/73
when they accounted for around 51 percent of the total current revenues of
Federal and State Governments. Federal budget estimates for 1973/74 showed
a current surplus of N 190 million (about $289 million), large transfers to
the states to support their programs, and N 493 million of capital expen-
ditures. The states also budgeted for large increases in expenditure. Pre-
liminary estimates show an unprecedentedly large budget surplus for 1973/74 as
a result of substantial, unforeseen increases in oil prices and revenues.
Even the states, which did not budget for a surplus, are now expected to
generate some savings.
9.        Significant new policy developments during 1973 include the acquisi-
tion of 35 percent equity participation in Shell-BP's oil operations, by far
the largest component of Nigeria's oil industry; a far-reaching reform of the
marketing board system, which will in effect substantially reduce the taxation
of export crops; and the establishment of the Bank for Commerce and Industry
to provide long-term finance to indigenous entrepreneurs. Guidelines for a
Third National Development Plan (1975/76 - 1979/80) were published recently,
and work is progressing on the preparation of the actual Plan which is schedul-
ed for issuance by October 1974.
10.       The lack of comprehensive and reasonably reliable demographic data
has hampered the formulation of development policies in Nigeria. A population
census was taken in the period November 25 to December 2, 1973. Provisional
results of the 1973 oensus indicate that the total population was about 80 million.
The preliminary figtres provided by the National Census Board are subject to
review by a committee of experts before the final results of the census are
announced.
Medium and Long-Term Prospects
11.       It has been apparent for some time that, by virtue of her oil re-
sources, Nigeria has the potential to achieve a significant improvement in
her general living standards within a relatively short period of time. The
Guidelines visualize a public investment of N 4.3 billion in the Third Plan



- 4 -
(compared to N 2.4 billion in the Second) and project GDP to grow at the rate
of 7.8 percent a year (in real terms) during the Third Plan period. The
achievement of this potential depends critically, however, on Nigeria's
ability to allocate and use her available resources efficiently. The planners
recognize that accelerated efforts for agricultural development, and rural
development generally, are essential to translate the resources generated by
the oil sector into significant and lasting improvement in productivity and
incomes of the mass of the population. The Guidelines also stress the need
for policies to promote more efficient and more diversified industrial growth
making fuller use of local raw materials and with greater inter-industry
linkages. Above all, there is frank recognition that effective exploitation
of existing opportunities requires a vast improvement in the capacity to pre-
pare and execute projects. The planners' assessment of the economy's future
prospects, as well as the views on broad strategy of development and the
principal constraints to be overcome, are in line with findings of the Bank's
economic mission. There are welcome signs that the Government is making
serious efforts, with the assistance of international agencies, including the
Bank, at improving project preparation and strengthening administrative capa-
city to sustain the projected large investment programs.
12.       The sharp increases in oil prices which took place since the publi-
cation of the Guidelines have the effect of further augmenting the resources
available for Nigeria's development during the coming decade. Assuming that
the Government "take" per barrel of oil is maintained in real terms at January
1974 levels, and that Nigeria will increase output moderately (from 2 million
bbls/day in 1973 to 2.3 million bbls in 1977 and 2.5 million bbls in 1985),
total Government revenues in the Third Plan will be more than thrice the
level which would have been realized at prices and production plans forecast
around mid-1973. Even if output were maintained at current levels, and oil
prices decline by 2 - 2.5 percent a year in real terms, total revenue would
be two-and-a-half-times as large as expected earlier. With larger resources,
the Government can now plan for even bigger development programs than visual-
ized in the Guidelines. Apart from larger public expenditues on rural devel-
opment, education, health, and infrastructure, there are opportunities for
large investments in oil-related industries (LNG, fertilizers, and petro-
chemicals). Inevitably, with greatly increased oil revenues, the pressure to
increase Public exnenditures unrelated to development objectives will intensi-
fy, and the Government's Budget for 1974/75 correctly emphasizes the prime
importance of raising rural incomes.
13.       A larger investment program,if it could be implemented efficiently,
would make it possible for Nigeria's overall growth rate to be raised even
faster than visualized in the Guidelines. Rough estimates suggest that, with
oil prices remaining constant in real terms, oil output rising moderately
and public expenditues growing at the rate of 13 percent a year (in real
terms) , the economy has the potential to sustain an average annual GDP growth
of over 9.5 percent through the mid-eighties. The potential growth would be
somewhat lower (8.6 percent a year) if oil prices in real terms were to dec-
line moderately, oil output were kept constant and public expenditure grew by
only 10-11 percent a year.
14.       The immediate fiscal outlook has, of course, been further improved
by the rise in oil prices. If the early 1974 prices are maintained during
this year and increase in line with general inflation in the following years,



- 5 -
oil-related revenues alone would exceed foreseeable total government recur-
rent and capital expenditures until about 1980/81. During this period, the
country would experience substantial balance of payments surpluses. However,
Bank projections suggest that a resource deficit could recur in the early
1980s leading to a draw-down of accumulated reserves. Even by 1985/86, Niger-
ia would be a relatively poor country with a per capita income of about $500
a year in 1973/74 prices. Furthermore, income would remain very unevenly
distributed, since the present momentum of development is likely to increase
the dual nature of the economy especially because of the difficulty of in-
creasing agricultural output significantly faster than population growth be-
fore the early 1980s.
15.       Nigeria is expected to remain in overall balance of payments surplus
during the remainder of the 1970s, with the surplus reaching perhaps N b billion
($4.5 billion) in 1974/75 and declining thereafter.   Preliminary estimates sug-
gest that cumulative reserves could, by 1980/81, represent approximately two years
import value. However, the overall balance of payment is likely to be in defi-
cit by the early eighties, and the deficit could rise rapidly. The range of
possible outcomes during the eighties is very wide. With relatively low growth
of public expenditure, constant real oil prices, and rising oil output, total
reserves in l985/86 could be equivalent to about one year's imports. But, with
higher growth of government expenditures, lower oil prices and constant oil pro-
duction, Nigeria could well exhaust all its reserves by that time.
16.       The financial prospects of the country are clearly very sensitive
to assumptions regarding the future behavior of oil prices and output, the
rate at which public expenditures can be increased consistent with consider-
ations of efficiency, and the trend in import prices. All these assumptions
are inevitably subject to large margins of uncertainty. From recent discus-
sions with the Bank and from its 1974/75 Budget announced on April 1, 1974,
it is apparent that the Federal Government is less sanguine than the Bani-
about its future revenue prospects. Moreover, it foresees substantial im-
provement in executive capacity over the next two to three years, particularly
in the traditional infrastructure sectors. This would serve to reduce the
size and shorten the duration of possible resource surpluses in the economy.
Inevitably, with greatly increased oil revenues, the pressure to increase
public expenditures unrelated to development objectives will intensify, and
the Government's Budget for 1974175 correctly emphasizes the prime importance
of raising rural incomes.
17.       In his Budget address on April 1, 1974, General Gowon outlined the
directions of economic policy in the coming year. Total Federal revenues are
estimated at N 3.1 billion. Recurrent expenditures are budgeted at approxi-
mately 25 percent above the previous year and capital e:penditures at nearly
two-and-a-half-times the level budgeted in 1973/74. Transfers to States
(N 626 million) are also projected to be much higher. The Budget shows a
small overall deficit. While full details are not yet available, there is
reason to believe that the Budget, especially on the revenue side, is more
conservative than usual.



- 6 -
18.       The Budget includes a substantial reduction in import and excise
duties. This, together with a further liberalization of imports, especially
of food items, is designed to curb domestic inflationary pressures which have
shown signs of revival in the past year. Restrictions on pavments for imports
have been further liberalized. The introduction of a personal income tax on
a national basis is a major new feature. Measures to stimulate agriculture
have been carried further. All taxes and duties on agricultural products
have been abolished. Producer prices for export commodities have been in-
creased substantially - the increase ranging from 12-1/2 percent for cocoa
to 103 percent for palm kernels. Large increases in investments for agriculture
are planned. The Budget provides for substantially larger transfers of re-
sources to the States in support of programs in such crucial areas as agri-
culture, health, education, water supply and housing.
External Assistance
19.       Nigeria's need for external assistance to help accelerate invest-
ment in the more intractable areas such as agriculture and rural development
and to increase executive and managerial capacity in the infrastructure
sectors is the more urgent as the country's resources increase. The Federal
Government's attitude towards foreign private capital is that it should
cmnplement, not compete with domestic capital.   This applies to official
external assistance as well. Priority is, therefore, being given to mtulti-
lateral and bilateral projects and programs which act as catalysts to invest-
ment efforts in the high priority areas and increase indigenous capability
to control, manage and promote the growth of the economy efficiently in the
future. Against this background the Federal Government and the Bank agree
that, at least over the next Plan period (1975-1980), the primary objective
of Bank activities in Nigeria should continue to be to assist Government
efforts to increase investment in the high priority areas of agricultural
and rural infrastructure development and to improve public sector capability
to manage and prorote the future growth of the modern sectors, rather than to
increase available resources. During recent discussions with the Government,
it was also agreed that the most efficient and effective means of providing
this assistance would be in association with capital projects typically
financed by the Bank, such as the project proposed today.
20.       Nigeria' s creditworthiness for additional borrowing on conventional
terms is not in question. As of December 31, 1972, total external public and
publicly guaranteed debt, including undisbursed loans, amounted to an esti-
mated $1,035 million, of which approximately $57 million represented suppliers'
credits. Ouitstanding but undisbursed commitments of official capital were
about $426 million. Debt service in 1972 was 2.5 percent of gross exports,
or less than 4 percent of exports less factor payments. In view of the substan-
tially improved resource position of the country, and the conseQuent uncertainty
as to the level of its future borrowings, it would not be possible to state,
at this stage, what the Bank's share of Nigeria's total outstanding debt or debt
service will be in the next five years. The Bank Groupts share of total external
public debt (including undisbursed) at the end of 1972 was about 45 percent.
This relatively high share essentially reflects Nigeria's low level of external
debt ($1 per capita in 1972) rather than substantial lending by the Bank ($6
per capita, including undisbursed, at the end of 1972).



- 7 -
21.       Nevertheless, in view of the increased claims on the Bank's finan-
cial resources from other developing countries, it has been agreed that the
Bank should, consistent with the objectives of its lending strategy noted
above, minimize the net flow of its financial resources to Nigeria so long
as the country's own financial resources exceed its requirements. Discus-
sions have accordingly been initiated regarding the possibility of Nigeria
investing some of its short-term excess resources in the Bank with a view
towards increasing the amount of resources available for international develop-
ment assistance. However, the Bank and the Government agree that the amount
and duration of resource surpluses in Nigeria is subject to a high degree of
uncertainty and will depend particularly on the movement of oil prices over
the coming year and on the speed with which the Government can increase its
executive capacity over the medium term. In the circumstances, while Nigeria
will favorably consider the Bank as a means of increasing its contribution to
the international development effort, a firm commitment will not be possible
until its resource and commitment positions become clearer. The Bank and
the Government have therefore agreed to keep this matter under review be-
tween them.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
22.       Bank/IDA lending to Nigeria to date amounts to $602.5 (net of
cancellations) of which $350.8 million was committed during the period of
the Second National Development Plan. Transport and power together account
for $428.2 million or about 71 percent of the total and agriculture, education,
industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan account for the remaining 29
percent; excluding the program loan the respective shares are about 82 percent
for transport and power and 18 percent for the other three sectors. Although
disbursements have been lagging, the execution of projects has generally been
satisfactory. AnnexII contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
23.       Bank activities since 1970 have generally been aimed at assisting
Nigeria in the following three broad areas: (a) reconstruction and rehabili-
tation of the economy after the civil war; (b) institution-building in the
public sector; and (c) extensive economic, sector and project preparation
work. In pursuance of these aims, Bank commitments in FYs 1971, 1972 and
1973 and 1974 amounted to $97.2 million, $119.6 million, $54 million and $55 mil-
lion respectively; during the same period, an economic mission and agriculture,
education and transportation sector missions visited Nigeria. Nigeria is now at
the stage where a major development effort is underway. Similarly, the Bank, having
completed a preliminary assessment of Nigeria's medium- and long-term develop-
ment priorities and initiated substantial project preparation work,is now
developing a more extensive and forward looking pattern of activities in
Nigeria than has been possible in recent years. The results of this prepara-
tory work during the last two years have led to a shift of emphasis in Bank
activities in Nigeria, as outlined below.



24.       As discussed in detail in Part I of this report, given the size of
Nigeria's population and its low per capita income, it seems appropriate to main-
tain a Bank lending program in Nigeria to help the country develop its resources
efficiently. It is essential that Nigeria build up the capacity for achieving
rapid expansion and diversification of economic activity outside the oil sec-
tor. The Bank is, therefore, working with the Federal Government to build up
over the next five to eight years a pipeline of projects in agricu4ture and other
key sectors and to strengthen the administrative capacity of the Federal and
State agencies that will be responsible for implementing these projects.
25.       Thus, in agreement with the Government, the emphasis of future Bank
lending will increasingly be placed on agriculture and the social sectors where
increased public investment is of high priority and where planning and imple-
mentation institutions are weakest. In addition, Bank activities will gradually
be extended into new areas such as water supply and sewerage, telecommunications,
and development of small-scale industries. -A small amount of further lending may
be considered in the power sector to assist in working out arrangements for joint
or parallel financing. As stated earlier, the broad objective in the formulation
of the projects discussed herein is to help Nigeria develop her institutions and
absorptive capacity to the stage where the country would be better able to utilize
with maximum efficiency the sizeable resources which are currently being realized
through her oil industry.   This should not require the comitment of large amounts
Of Bank loans in relation to the eise and inveotment requirements of the country.
26.       An important feature of evolving strategy for Bank activities in
the agricultural sector is to spread the benefit of development more widely,
with particular emphasis on the poorer sections of the population. Several
specific projects currently under discussion for the next year illustrate
the Bank's effort to support the objectives noted above. In agriculture, for
example, the Bank has strongly emphasized the importance it attaches to rural
development in Nigeria and the Bank has already appraised three projects
covering about 16,000 sq. km. of food and cash crop growing areas in the
North-Central, North-Western and North-Eastern States and involving 230,000
farm families. These projects are designed to increase the yields of
food crops(maize, sorghum, and cowpeas) and cash crops(cotton and groundnut).
Investment requirements will include feeder roads, water supply, credit and
storage as well as the expansion of farm inputs. The Bank has also appraised
a project for rice development on reclaimed swamp forest land in the East-
Central and South-Eastern States which would substantially increase incomes
for some 6,000 farm families whose standard of living is below the low national
average. Similarly, the loan proposed herein for cocoa development will in-
volve 27,000 small farmers in the Western and Mid-Western States, whose income
scatus would be improved. Projects for oil palm development, which have also
been appraised, would provide additional income opportunities for the rural
population. The need for institutional credit for agriculture will grow
rapidly as input use by farmers increases and longer-term development oppor-
tunities are realized. The projects referred to above will help develop
existing and create new credit and project management institutions at not
only the national and state levels, but also at the rural level for handling
credit, agricultural extension and marketing.



- 9 -
27.       Foreign exchange as such is no longer a scarce resource in Nigeria,
and the extent of the Bank's participation in the financing of individual
projects will be determined more on the basis of what is considered to be an
appropriate share of total costs. For projects which have high priority in
meeting basic economic and social problems, such as those in agriculture and
rural development, where the direct foreign exchange component may also be
relatively low, we would propose for the present to finance a maximum of 50
percent of total costs; the responsibility for mobilizing the remaining financing
required, including farmers' contributions, will normally rest with the State
Governments. However, it is recognized that financial assistance from the Federal
Government to the States may be needed if the projects are to succeed. In sec-
tors other than agriculture and rural development the amounts of Bank loans will
normally not exceed the foreign exchange component of the project to be financed
and may sometimes be less.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN NIGERIA
28.       Agriculture, including livestock, fisheries and forestry is by far the
most important source of output and employment: in 1971/72 it contributed about
$4 billion or 46 percent of the country's gross domestic product and about 70
percent of the labor force is estimated to be employed in this sector.
29.       Nigerian agriculture is primarily domestic market oriented.   Nearly
90 percent of her production - comprising all staple food crops and animal
products, most of palm oil and cotton, and a substantial part of groundnuts
- is consumed within the country. Nigeria is nearly self-sufficient in food.
In 1971-72, total imports of food and beverages - of which wheat, milk and
sugar are the main items - were of the order of $145 million or less than five
percent of the estimated total food consumption. Export of agricultural pro-
ducts in 1971-72 were valued at $265 million. Until the mid-sixties, they
were the dominant element in Nigeria's export trade, but have since been
overtaken by crude oil. Even so, they are still a significant source of
foreign exchange and account for the bulk of the non-oil exports.
30.       Nigeria can be divided into three major agricultural and ecological
zones; a southern wet forest zone comprising the Western, Mid-Western, East
Central, South Eastern and Rivers States, characterized by high rainfall Ind a
tropical climate and growing mainly perennial tree crops, namely cocoa, rubber
and oil palm; a central dry forest zone known as the middle belt embracing
the whole of Kwara State, Benue Plateau, the southern parts of North Western,
North Central and North Eastern States which is underpopulated and tsetse
infested, but has a high potential for annual food crops and livestock; and
a northern zone which, being free from tsetse has a high population density
and a fairly intensive and developed system of agriculture. This area covers
about cO percent of the country and, in addition to supporting most of Nigeria's
cattle population, also produces most of her cereals, beans, groundnuts and
cotton.



- 10 -
31.       Land holdings are typically small.   The average farmed area per
holding for the country as a whole is estimated to be less than three acres.
In some of the more densely populated areas of the south, the average is
less than one acre. There are few farm families with more than 25 acres of
cultivated area. Farmers follow for the most part, traditional techniques
of which bush fallowing and mixed cropping are characteristic features. The
practice of bush fallowing is essentially a device to maintain soil fertility.
Mixed cropping perntits farmers to get more output per acre with smaller risks
of crop failure. However, since improved seed, fertilizers and other elements
of modern technology are used on a very limited scale, average yields are
still low. Small holdings and poor productivity explain the relatively low
level of income in the agricultural sector. There are also considerable dis-
parities in the distribution of land and incomes both between and within re-
gions.
32.       While reliable data are lacking, it is believed that agricultural
production since the early sixties has been growing only slightly faster than
population. Agriculturehas certainly been growing much slower than other
sectors, and as a result, its share in GDP has been declining. The relative
sluggishness of agriculture is largely attributable to the existing low level
of agricultural technology. The disruption of production in the eastern
states during the civil war was an aggravating factor. Since then, the re-
covery has been hampered by short-term factors such as drought in parts of
the north in 1972-73 and 1973-74, but, more particularly, by a number of
underlying long-term influences. Some of the most important factors among
these are the rising age-profile of tree crops, technical and other constraints
to accelerated food crop production, e.g., the lack of improved crop varieties
and adequate credit facilities to finance the purchase of modern farm inputs.
Imports of food, though still small, have risen from around $70 million in
1965-66 co $145 million in 1972. The slow growth of production has also
affected exports. Cocoa and rubber exports have remained stagnant in recent
years. Palm oil exports have dwindled to negligible amounts and palm kernel
exports are stagnating at well below pre-war levels. Groundnut exports in
1972 were some 80 percent below the 1965 level and it is likely that the
present volume of exports is much lower because of the drought in the north
in 1973.   Lrr addition. the availability of groundlnuts for export has been
affected by sabstitution of groundnut for palm oil in domestic consumption
anrd the relative>y better price offered to farmers by private traders. Cotton,
onrle a maior export, is now fully utilized by the local textile industry and
1c.~a  suppl,y cannot meet demand,
P.       /.A vigorous effort to step-up the growth of agricultural and live-
sco< protnduction is essential for viable development of the economy and for
ma~tn:'rintg iNigeria's share of world trade in some of these agricultural
cor miuodit:es. The demand for agricultural products is growing rapidly. On
a rouIghi estimate, the resources generated by the oil sector would be adequate
to sustain a growth rate of over nine percent per annum in real terms over
the next decade. This will generate a six percent average annual increase in
domestic demand for farm products.   Unless the rate of agricultural growth is
accelerated, the economy faces the prospect of large and increasing food im-
ports.  More importantly, continued slow growth of agricultural production
implies a slow improvement in the living conditions of the mass of the popu-
lation with the attendant risks of further aggravation of rural-urban dispari-
ties.



- 11 -
34.       Nigeria has vast unexploited potential for increasing agricultural
production. The productivity of practically all segments of agriculture -
food, export crops, and livestock - are far below levels attainable with
modern farming methods. In addition there are extensive areas of good agri-
cultural and grazing land which, if developed along scientific lines, could
greatly increase production. While improved varieties and techniques adapted
to local conditions are not available for all crops and regions, much can be
done on the basis of existing knowledge. Significant improvementsin produc-
tivity of many of the major export and cereal crops have been demonstrated to
be technically and economically feasible. The main constraints are organiza-
tional anid institutional: until recently Government efforts to help the
farmers to learn and apply the known techniques for raising productivity
have not been on a scale commensurate with needs and possibilities. The
extension service is poorly staffed, credit and marketing institutions are
few, planning is weak and the expertise needed to implement successfully
major agricultural and other rural development projects is in short supply.
There are also complex social and institutional problems to be overcome
before the land potential, including the resources of the middle belt, can
be effectively exploited, and the livestock industry organized along modern
lines.
35.       The Federal and State Governments are conscious of the need for
greater attention to agriculture and of the impediments to be overcome before
significant progress can be achieved. Several major new programs initiated
within the last year or two bear witness to a heightened government concern for
and interest in agricultural development. These include the creation of the
Nigerian Agricultural Bank, the launching of an accelerated food production
program, larger and better organized projects for replanting/planting of tree
crops and integrated agricultural development projects in different parts of
the country. At the request of the Government, the Bank has actively assisted
in the preparation of many of these projects. A Bank sponsored study in 1971
made a comprehensive survey of the problems of livestock and outlined an
integrated long-term study for development. The Bank economic mission in
1973 made an overall survey of the potential and prospects of food production.
Agriculture and rural development generally are of crucial importance to
Nigeria's long-term growth, and the Bank plans to continue to devote substan-
tial resources to assisting Nigeria in preparing and implementing projects in
this general area.
The Cocoa Industry
36.       Nigeria is the world's second largest cocoa producer.   In 1971/72,
out of a world production of 1.5 million tons, Ghana produced 444,000 tons,
Nigeria 255,000, and Ivory Coast 220,000. Nigerian cocoa production was
236,000 tons in 1972/73 and is estimated at 219,000 tons in 1973/74. Nigeria's
average production over the period 1967-71 was about 239,000 tons or about 17
percent of world production, and of this about 97 percent was grown in Western
State. The Mid-Western State produced nearly all of the remaining three per-
cent and the small balance was from the other southern states. With insigni-
ficant exceptions cocoa is produced on smallholdings where yields average
about 450 lb of dry cocoa beans per acre. Yields vary widely, however, due
to differences in management, soils, and climatic conditions. The average
individually-owned planting of cocoa is about 3.5 acres, but more than 50



- 12 -
percent of farmers grow less than 2.5 acres and own only about 20 percent of
total cocoa acreage; 25 percent of farmers have between 2.5 and 5.0 acres and
own some 23 percent of total acreage, and the remaining 20 percent of farmers
have more than 50 Percent of total acreage with an average holding of about
9 acres.
37.       From 1946 to 1958 Nigerian cocoa production stagnated at about
100,000 tons annually. Thereafter, production increased steadily reaching a
peak of 294,000 tons in the good growing season of 1964/65; however, this
level was not achieved again until 1970/71, when excellent growing conditions
resulted in a record crop of 303,000 tons. The substantial increase in pro-
duction in the late 1950's and early 1960's stemmed from large plantings of
cocoa made in the 1950's in response to good producer prices, and the subse-
quent introduction by Government of an effective pest and disease control
program.
38.       ')ue to substantially lower world cocoa prices in the 1960's than
in the 1950's and low Government-controlled, producer prices until 1969, there
has been no new planting or replanting of cocoa on a major scale since 1961.
Thus, while there are no accurate data available, it is probable that the pro-
ductive acreage of Nigerian cocoa has remained more or less static over the
last decade with new plantings and improved cultural techniques, such as
pest control, barely offsetting losses resulting from old cocoa being aban-
doned due to low yields. Government surveys show that about 900,000 acres
of Western State cocoa trees, nearly 75% of the usually accepted total of
1.2 million acres, are more than 30 years old, and there is extensive
visual evidence of large areas of cocoa that have been abandoned because
falling yields have made farms unprofitabie. However, the efficiency of
Government cocoa survey work fell off sharply in the late 1950's and 1960's,
especially in the newer, less-settled, eastern areas, and it is probable that
plantings in these areas are substantially greater than recorded. For the
1973/74 season, Government increased the producer price of cocoa from N 302/
ton to N 400/ton and recently, it announced a further increase to 450/ton for
the next year. It appears that the lower producer price was just sufficient
for farmers to maintain their farms satisfactorily, but there is no evidence
that it was inducing new planting or replanting on a significant scale.
Plantings in the 1950's were made when producer prices ranged between N 300
and N 400/ton. Given inflation and labor costs which since that time have
more than trebled, it is clear that the incentives to invest in cocoa were
appreciably less than 15-20 years ago. Also there is a diminishing amount
of land suitable for new planting; and replanting presents technical problems
that generally are beyond the capacity of the average farmer to surmount
without a large amount of technical assistance. Farm access roads and
secondary roads linking small villages to cocoa purchase centers are often
in poor repair and farmers using these have to pay excessive transportation
charges.



- 13 -
39.       The proposed project was prepared to conform with Nigeria's cocoa
policy which is aimed at ensuring that it retains its share of the world
market. The Western State Government believes that this can be achieved only
through replanting some 460,000 acres of aging cocoa over the next ten years
together with the establishment of about 95,000 acres of new cocoa. Whether
such a large program is justified will be determined by the survey of cocoa
farms. In the interim it appears that the ongoing project and the proposed
project described in this report are justified.
40.       An international cocoa agreement entered into force on June 30, 1973.
Stabilization of prices of cocoa is its main objective. However, the unusually
high range of spot cocoa prices since the Spring of 1973 has reduced the
urgency for the oepration of a buffer stock facility at this time.
41.       In its projections of world cocoa supply the Bank 1/ estimates world
cocoa supply and demand equilibrium will be reached in 1980 at a current price
of 61 cts/lb. This corresponds to 44.4 cts/lb in 1974 prices. Demand and
supply are expected to grow at around 2.6 percent annually until 1980 and at
three percent thereafter, taking into account, as far as this is possible,
all planned and ongoing projects, including that described in this report.
Indeed, it could well be that without planned additional production, a
shortfall would occur in supplies that would increase prices to the extent
that substitution of cocoa might become attractive and thus detrimental to
the cocoa-growing industry as a whole.
42.        It might be questioned whether Nigeria should take measures
to improve the productivity of its cocoa farmers given (a) the
nation's oil wealth and much lessened dependence on agriculture for foreign
exchange, and (b) the growing urban community with its increasing demand for
farm products. Unfortunately, however, the scope for cocoa farmers to diver-
sify is very limited since, while with cocoa they enjoy an almost world-wide
comparative advantage, in the case of most other farming activities the con-
verse is true. The cocoa belt is too dry for tree crops such as oil palm
and rubber and apart from citrus which is already grown widely, the only
alternative tree crop is robusta coffee, a commodity offering few if any
advantages over cocoa. Farms are too small for grazing livestock, and a
severe disease problem exists for all but trypano-tolerant cattle. If the
cocoa farmer switches to food crops, he is confronted by the yet unresolved
problems of (a) maintaining soil fertility, except through a long-duration
fallow, and (b) cultivating by hand crops which yield returns comparable to
his earnings from cocoa. In short, the Nigerian cocoa farmer with his aging
trees, faces, in the absence of the proposed project, declining incomes and
standards of living unless his industry receives the new investment that is
needed to retain its comparative advantage by the use of the modern technology
that has been developed in Nigeria and elsewhere.
1/   "The World Cocoa Market - Review and Outlook for Bank Lending", dated
February 22, 1974. (R74-36)



- 14 -
43.       In its cocoa policy Nigeria acknowledges that substantial Govern-
ment assistance is necessary to induce farmers to undertake new planting and
replanting, and to begin to use inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides, and
improved planting material. Consequently, Governments provide (a) credit
for new planting and for replanting; and (b) subsidies on pesticides, im-
proved planting material and fertilizers.
44.       Bank assistance to the Nigerian cocoa industry commenced with a loan
of $7.2 million for the Western State Cocoa Project in 1971 (Loan 764-UNI) to
finance planting and replanting some 43,500 acres of cocoa through credits to farm-
ers for seedlings, fertilizers, pesticides, labor and extension services. The
loan is making satisfactory progress and by the 1973 season, some 15,000 acres
of cocoa plantings have been established, compared with an appraisal estimate
of 18,000 acres. A recent supervision mission has commented most favorably
on the project. Farmer response, project management and credit administration
have been satisfactory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       A report entitled "Appraisal of Second Cocoa Project - Nigeria",
dated May 21, 1974, (282a-UNI) is being distributed separately. A loan
and project summary is attached at Annex III and maps showing the location
of project areas are also attached.
46.       The proposed project is based on feasibility studies prepared by
the Ministries of Agriculture and Natural Resources of the Western and Mid-
Western States. The project was appraised by a Bank mission in January/
February 1973 and some aspects of the appraisal were later discussed with
the Nigerian authorities in September 1973. Negotiations were held in Lagos
in February 1974 and understanding on all aspects of the proposed loan was
arrived at in late March. The Nigerian delegation was headed by Mr. Osha,
Under Secretary, Federal Ministry of Finance.
Project Description
l47.      The proposed loan will assist development of cocoa farms involving
some 24,000 farmers in the Western State and some 3,000 farmers in the Mid-
Western State. The project in the Western State, to be carried out in
seven years, would be the second phase of the cocoa planting and replanting
program, while the project in the Mid-Western State would be for new planting
only, to be carried out over eight years.   The proposed 20-year term for the
loan in the gam- ag was provided under the first cocoa-loan (76-UNIT) and re-
flects the project development period. The project consists of:
(a) planting with high yielding varieties of up to 72,000
acres (18,100 acres of new cocoa and 43,900 acres of
replanting in Western State and 10,000 acres of new
cocoa in Mid-Western State);



- 15 -
(b) training staff and farmers in modern cocoa production
techniques;
(c) rehabilitating some 216 acres of state-owned seed gardens
planted with Amazon hybrid varieties and establishing a 25-
acre seed garden of varieties resistant to swollen short
virus disease (SSVD); and
(d) constructing or rehabilitating and upgrading of some 663
miles of secondary/farm-access roads in project areas.
48.       Project expenditures provide for supply and distribution to
farmers of some 37.2 million seedlings, 11,600 tons of fertilizers, 18,500
gallons of chemicals and 13,500 sprayers. Expanded office facilities and
staff quarters would also be provided.
Project Execution
49.       The Cocoa Development Unit (CDU) which has performed satisfactorily
in executing the first cocoa project (764-UNI) would be maintained and
expanded to implement the Western State components of the proposed project,
with arrangements for the secondment of necessary staff to CDU. In the Mid-
Western State, whera the small size of the proposed project would not justify
a separate unit similar to CDU, a new Tree Crop Unit (TCU) would be established
to manage the cocoa project as well as possible Bank projects for oil palm
and rubber. Establishment of the TCU would be a condition of loan effective-
ness. The project coordinating committee established under the first cocoa
project to review progress, and advise the Project Manager on financial and
technical aspects,would be maintained for the proposed project in the Western
State. In the Mid-Western State the creation of a similar project coordinating
committee would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
50.       The Cooperative Trust, which is the channel of credit under the
first cocoa project, and subject to satisfactory establishment and funding,
the newly created Agricultural Credit Cooperation (ACC), would act as credit
channels to farmers in the Western State. The Central Financing Society (CFS),
an apex organization established to meet the financial needs of the cooper-
atives in the Mid-Western State would be the on-lending agency in that State.
Farmers wishing to participate in the project would apply to the nearest CDU
or TCU office and qualify for assistance. If the project criteria are
satisfied and if the farmer is a member in a cooperative society or the
Western State Farmers' Union branch (WSFU) (if funded and staffed in a form
satisfactory to the Bank) the farmer would enter into a loan agreement with
the cooperative society (or WSFU branch).
51.       Loans to approved project farmers would be in cash and kind and
would be up to $556 to plant four acres or up to $586 to replant four acres.
Participation would be on the basis of two acres in the first year, followed
by two acres in the third year if the initial two acres are maintained



- 16 -
satisfactorily. Terms of credits for new planting would be 12 years, including
a six-year grace period, while for replanting it would be 13 years, including
a grace period of seven years. Interest would be 9-1/4 percent per annum
or such other rate as the Borrower and the Bank may determine. Project
participants would market their cocoa through their cooperative societies
and farmers' union branches and loan repayments would be deducted from the
participant's cocoa sales proceeds.
Project Costs
52.       Project costs for both Western and Mid-Western projects total
$40.0 million with a foreign exchange component of about 25 percent ($10
million). The cost estimates do not take into account direct contributions
to project farms by farmers. Project costs include contingencies of US$9.9
million, representing a five percent physical contingency and price conti-
gencies based upon latest available information and calculated over the
project development period. It is proposed that the Bank should finance 50
percent of project costs, which would cover the entire foreign exchange cost
and roughly one-third of the local currency cost of the project. (see para.
27 above). As in the case of the first cocoa project, the proceeds of the
loan will be passed on by the Federal Government to the States on the same
terms as the Bank loan. Foreign exchange risk for the loan will be assumed
by the Federal Government. In addition the Federal Government's contribu-
tion of $8.23 million to the Western State and $1.77 million to the Mid-
Western State would be in the form of a grant. The financing plan for the
project would be as follows:
Western State           Mid-Western State           Total
Project                   Project            Project Costs
N    US$               N      US$       %       N    US$    %
State Govern-
inents     5.41  8.22   25         1.17   1.78     25     6.58  10.00   25
Federal
Governmenit   5.41   8.23  25         i.17   1.77     25     6.58  10.00   25
Bank         10.83 16.45   50         2.33   3.55     50    13.16  20.00   50
TOTAL COSTS  21.65 32.90 100          4.67   7.10    100    26.32  40.00 100
ThE. Federal and State Governrents agree that funds would be paid quarterly
In advance to the project units so that financing necessary for the project
would be available on time. Loans to be made to project farmers would be
fixed annually and approved by the Bank on the basis of the work program
and budget recommended by the project management units in the two states.
Procurement
53.       Procurment of vehicles, tractors, road making equipment, sprayers,
tools, fertilizers and insecticides, valued at about N 4.0 million (US$6.1
million), would be through international competitive bidding in accordance



- 17 -
with IBRD guidelines. Domestically manufactured goods would be allowed a
15% preference when comparing domestic bids with those of foreign mant,factur-
ers. Contracts for building, road construction and other civil works, valued
at N 2.5 million (US$3.8 million), are not large enough to attract foreign
interest and would be awarded under local competitive bidding. In the latter,
foreign firms would not be precluded, as such work would be advertised in at
least one local newspaper and the representatives of all Bank members and of
Switzerland in Lagos would be notified. A 7.5% preference for domestic
contractors will apply, The major part of project costs would be for
labor hired by project farmers, staff salaries and planting material, valued
at N 12.2 million (US$18.5 million) and operating costs of vehicles, headquar-
ters and road equipment amounting to N 1.0 million (US$1.5 million). None of
thesecosts, totalling N 13.2 million (US$20.1 million) would be suitable for
any form of competitive bidding.   Contingencies of N 6.5 million (US$9.9 mil-
lion) would be used as required. Nigeria has no preferential import tariff
arrangements and competition between foreign manufacturers on the domestic
market is keen.
Disbursements
5h.       While the development period of the project would be seven years
in the Western State and eight years in tbe Mid-Western State, the Bank
loan would be disbursed over a seven-year period. The amount of the Bank
loan would be disbursed as follows: 100 percent of the cost of imported
vehicles, equipment, etc. including locally manufactured goods purchased
after international competitive bidding (or 80 percent of the costs, if
imported and locally procured); 80 percent of loans to farmers; and 45
percent of staff and training costs, building costs and road program costs.
Economic Evaluation
55.       The demand and price prospects for cocoa in world trade during the
next decade appear favorable and without additional production a shortfall
would occur in supplies, raising prices substantially. The on-going and
proposed cocoa development projects in Nigeria are expected to yield an
additional 41,000 tons at maturity in 1986. The proposed project is expected
to yield an economic rate of return of 25 percent in the Western State and
19 percent in the Mid-Western State. Apart fram its economic viability,
the project will make an important contribution to increasing the incomes
of a substantial number of small cultivators. It is estimated that the pro-
ject's direct benefits would cover 27,000 cocoa farmers and at full develop-
ment create employment opportunities equivalent to 2,000 man-years annually.
Since the scope for diversification is very limited in the cocoa growlng
region of Nigeria and since the existing trees in the project area are already
entering the phase of declining yields, thereby reducing the income and
living standards of small farmers, the proposed project is of high importance.
The project would help develop integrated agricultural support services capa-
ble of demonstrating and ensuring the adoption of improved agricultural tech-
niques and the strengthening of agricultural credit institutions and farmerst



- 18 -
organizations. Consequently the justification for the proposed loan lies in
the contribution it would make to enhancing institutional and administrative
capabilities and the absorptive capacity of Nigeria, particularly in the
agricultural sector, and to the widening of the distribution of benefits
flowing from Nigeria's development program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUIETS AIND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Government of Nigeria
and the Bank and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the W4estern
and Mid-Western States, the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolu-
tion approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Execuitive Direc-
tors separately.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Execuitve Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 10, 1974
ATTACHMENTS



ANNEX I
Page1
BASIC DATA:  NIGERIA-/
COUNTRY:
AREA:  923,768 km2                              POPULATION:   68 million (1971)                DENSITY:  74 per km2
Rate of Growth:   2.5 X (from 1963 to 1971)   ibid      215 per km2 of
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS:                                                                              arable land
HEALTH:
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                   50 (1960)
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                    -          -      Population per physician
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births) 150-175 (1965)           Population per hospital bed   22,250 (1965)
INCOME DISTRIBUTION:                                               DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP:
% of national incoame, highest quintile                                                                    .fobp of land owned by top 10% owners
lowest quintile                ..          X of land owned by smallest 10% ojniers
ACCESS TO POTABLE WATER (% of population)                          ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY:   (% of populttion)
Urban                                                 ..          Urban)   7.5
Rural                                                ..           Rural)
NUTRITION:                                                          EDUCATION:
Calorie intake as % of requirements             90 (1968)          Adult literacy rate
Per capita protein intake (grammes)             59 (1968)          Primary school enrollment (%)   3ti (1970)
GNP PER CAPITA:   $140 (1971)-
GROSS NATIONA_ PRODUCT IN 1972/73                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant 1970/71 prices)
US$ Mln.          %                    1965/66-1970/71           1971/72          1972/73
GNP at Market Prices         10690          100.0                         4.2                   13.3             7.9
Gross Domestic Invescment     2347           22.0                         4.5                   32.0            -6.0
Gross National Saving         1912           17.9                         4.0                   57.3            15.4
Current Account Balance      - 435          - 4.1
Exports of Goods, NFS         2235           20.9                         10.2                  25.0             4.4
Imports of Gocbs;, NFS        2006           18.8                         9.1                   20.0            -4.0
OUTPUT, LABCR FCR-u   i  PR3:O,CTI.VITY IN 1970/71
Value Added                      Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                    Mln.      %                    US $          %
Agriculture               3303         48                    16.8     70                     197        69
Industry                  1690         25                     3.1     13                     545       190
Services                  1895         27                     4.1     17                     462       161
Unall_ae 11                             .                       . 
Total/Averale        6888        100.0                  24.0    100.0                   287       100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                              Federal Government
(Naira Min.         7 % of GDP                  (Naira Mln.)             7/. of GDP
1972, 73     1972/73    1969/70-1971/72          1972/73     1972/73     1969/70-1971/72
Current Receipts                 1420          18.9           17.4                 954         12.7            11.0
Current Expenditure-             1102          14.6           15.0                 652          8.7             9.5
Current Surplus                   318           4.2            2.4                 302          4.0             1.5
Capital Exper.dit_res             440           5.8            3.7                 343          4.6             1.5
External Assistance 'net)          29             .             .                   29
1/  Because of the civil disturbances, the coverage of the three eastern states for the period 1966/67 - 1969/70
is uneven and incomplete.
2/ World Bank Atlas estimate.
3/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to the sector of their normal occupation.
4/  Includes capital expenditures for defense.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Sept enhter
VNEY, CREDIT and PkICES                   1969         1970        1971        1972         197         19'73
(Million Naira outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     665           982        1025        1196         1125        1345
Bank credit to Public Sector              518           708         570         558         567          709
Bank Credit to Privato Sector              327          478         593         757          639         718
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of O          16.6         17.4        14.8         15.5
General Price Index (1960   100)-        132.3        150.6       174.7        179.6       184*72/     l83.gi,
Annual percentage changes int
General Price Index                          .         13.8        16.0          2.8           .       - o.4_2/
Bank credit to Public Sector                 .         36.7       -19.5       - 2.0            .        25.0
Bank aredit to Private Sector                          46.2        24.0        27.6            ,        12.4
ALANCE OF PAYMENrS                                                  MERCHJWMISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 197C-72)
1970     1971     1972                                                US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS         1335      1991     2296              Crude oil                         1280      72.4
Imports of Goods, NFS         1311      1858     1935              Cocoa products                     198      11.2
Resource Gap (deficit - -)      24       133    riI                Groundnut products                  75      4.2
Palm products                       44       2.5
Interest Payments (net)        -16       - 1      ...              Tin                                 37       2.1
Workers' Remittances
Other Factor Payments (net)    -447     -598     -746
Net Transfers                   63         3     - 23               All other commodities              133      7.5
Balance on Current Account     -376     -463     -408                    Total                       1767     100,0
Direct Foreign Investment       251      338      338             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1972
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                49        65      120                                                       US $ Mln
Amortization                  35       37       52
Subtotal                      14       28       68               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            1,035
Capital Grants                    -        -        -               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)              17       15       14               Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               179      260     - 64
Increase in Reserves (+)         85      178     - 52             DEBT SERVICE RAT10 for 1972-/
Gross -Reserves (end year)      260      445      433
Net Reserves   (end year)       244      421      406               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             2.5
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
FIuel and Related MaT,erials                                        Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        31       13       14
of which: Petroleum           -        -
Exports                       714     1334     1788
of which: Petroleum         714     1334     1788            IBFZD/IA LEIDIllO. (APril 30. 19Th) (illion US*)s
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                     IDldD      mA
Throu g h Dec. 19t 1971   U    Since Doe..31......971....  0      0^UW6........Outstanding &-Disbursed  270.5  27.7
Through Dec. 19. 1971  Since Dec. 20, 1971        -Undisbursed                    2'7.-       7.
tY~~T~~N~T  - US $ 1.00 * wu.66                 .Outs~~~~~tanding--incl. Undisburased  511!9  35-3
N 1.00 - US $1.40              N 1.00 = US $1.52
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing,,during the period
covered.
1/  Index of Consumer Prices
2/ Average January -.June
3/ Ratio of.Debt Service to.Exports of Goods and.Non-Factor Services.
April 19. 1974



ANNAX Ir
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BAN1K GOUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
A.  STATEMENT OF aANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(as at April 30, 197l)
Loan or                                                                         US$ million
Credit                                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower                        Purpose             Bank      IDA      Jndiabursed
Seven loans and one credit fully disbursed                               254.0     15.3
72        1965     Nigeria                          Education                    20.0          7.6
426        1965     Nigeria                          Roads               17.5                   0.9
427        1965      Nigeria                         Roads               14.5                   2.5
640        1969     Nigeria                          Roads               10.6                   4-4
694        1970     Nigeria                          Transport           25.0                   ' 4
705        1970      Industrial Development Bank     Dev, Fin. Co.       iO.O                  !' .2
764        1971     Nigeria                          Cocoa Dev.           7.2                  5.5
814        1972     Nigeria                          Education I1        17.3                  k7.l
838        1972     Nigeria                          Roads V             26.3                  26.3
847        1972     NEPA                             Power               76.0                  71.0
922        1973      NPA                              Ports II           55.0                  55.0
929*       1973     Nigeria                          Education III       540.o       -40
Total                                               567.4      35.3
of which has been repaid                           39.5
Total now outstanding                              527.9
Amount sold                         16.6
of which has now been repaid       13.8              2.8
Total now held by
Bank and IDA 2/                                               22         --3 _
Total undisbursed                                   219.3        7.6    i2S. 9
* Not yet effective
21 Prior to exchange rate adjustments
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as at April 30, 9714)
Amount in US$ milliOn
Year       Obligor                                  Type ef Business      Loan      Zcuity      Tota
196L, 1967, 1970 Arewa Textiles Ltd.                       Textile Mfg.          0.9        0.7        1.6
1964       Nigerian Industrial Development
Bank Ltd.                                Dev. Fin. Co.          -        1.4         1.4
1973       Funtua Cottonseed Crushing Ltd.           Veg. oil orushing     1.6         -         1.6
1973       Nigeria Aluminum Extrusion Ltd.           Aluminum processing   1.0       0-3         1.3
Total Gross coditments                                          3.5       2.4        5;9
Less cancellation                                              0.3        -          0.3
Laes sold or repaid                                            1.1       0.3         1.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                               2.1        2.1       4.2



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Executionl/
Credit 72-UNI, Education Project: US$20.0 million
Credit of March 1, 1965; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1974
Loan 314-UNI, Secondl Education Project: US$17.3 million
Loan of April 18, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Loan 929-UNI, Third Education Project: US$54.0 million
Loan of August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1973
The f:irst education project (72-iT1) had a late start in implementation,
particularLy in the three eastern states which were affected by the civil
strife between 1967 and 1970. Execution of project schools in these states
is at working drawings stage while the majority of project schools in other
states are under construction. Completion of work in eastern states might
take two more years and the closing date of the credit would need to be
postponed. Execution of the second education project (814-UNI) is generally
satisfactory, although it is twelve months behind schedule and special im-
plementation assistance would be needed in one state to avoid further delay.
The third education project (929-UNI) has not yet been declared effective,
pending appointment of consultant-architects and project managers and execu-
tion of subsidiary loan agreements and legal opinion. The effectiveness
date has been postponed to July 1, 1974.   Action to appoint consultant-archi-
tects and to fulfill the other conditions of effectiveness is progressing.
Loan 426-UNI, Apapa Road Project: US$17.5 million
Loan of September 26, 1965; Revised Closing Date: April 1, 1974
Loan 427-UNI, Western Road Project: US$14.5 millioni
Loan of September 26, i965; Revised Closing 'ate: March 31, i975
Loan 640-UNI, 1-ighway Relhabilitation: US$10.6 million
Loan of November 6, 1969; Revised Closing Date: July 1, 1974
Loan 694-U,NI, Transport Rehabilitation: US$25.0 million
Loan of June 26, 1970; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Loan 838-UNI, Fifth Highway Project: US$26.3 million
Loan of June 16, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Physical implementation of road projects under the first two loans
(426 and 427-lNI) has been completed and a withdrawal application for the
residual amount of $877,000 in Loan 426-U4I is in process. There has been
a saving of S2.5 million in Loan 427-SliN, out of which expenditures toward
road machinery and a photogrammatic survey would be financed and the balance
estimated at $1.4 million, would be cancelled.   Construction work and pro-
curement under the ilighway Rehabilitation (640-UNI) and Transport Rehabilit-
ation (694-l4I) have proceeded satisfactorily except for precurement out of
Loan 694-UNI of some railway equipment, which has been affected by admin-
istrative delays as well as delays in delivery schedule due to the recent
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution,and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
energy crisis. Construction under the fifth highway loan (838-UNI) has been
proceeding satisfactorily. Lag in disbursement of highway loans has occured
due to slow processing of withdrawal applications for consultant services
and this matter is being followed-up with the Government.
Loan 705-UNI, Nigerian Industrial Development Bank. US$10.0 million
Loan of August 22, 1970; Revised Closing Date: March 31, 1975
This loan is expected to be fully committed by June 30, 1974. With-
drawals out of this loan in 1973 were slower than expected owing to cancellation
of sub-project loan commitments.
Loan 764-UNI, Western Cocoa Project: US$7.2 million
Loan of June 23, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Though there was delay in establishment of Cocoa Development Unit
and only 65 percent of first year planting was achieved, excellent progress
was made and the 1973 planting target and 1972 backlog have been fulfilled.
Loan 847-UNI Fourth Power Project: US$76.0 million
Loan of June 30, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This loan became effective only on July 13, 1973, owing to delay in
connection with the Loan Assumption Agreement for the previous Bank loans in
this sector. Progress on the Bank project is considered satisfactory.
Loan 922-UNI, Second Lagos Ports Project: US$55 million
Loan of August 1, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
This loan became effective on October 29, 1973 and implementation of
the project is proceeding satisfactorily.






ANNEX III
Page 1
NIGERIA
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:                   $20.0 million
Terms:                    Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace
for principal at an interest of 7-1/4 percent
per annum.
Relending Terms:          Federal Government would on-lend $16.45 million to
Western State and $3.55 million to Mid-Western State
on terms identical to Bank loan. In addition, as
its contribution to project costs, the Federal
Government would grant $8.23 million to the Western
State and $1.77 million to the Mid-Western State.
Loans to project farmers would total $10.7 million
and would be supplied in cash and kind in amounts
up to $556 to plant four acres, and up to $586 to
replant four acres. Period for repayment would
be 12 years with a grace period of six years for
new planting, and 13 years with a grace period of
seven years for replanting. Interest would be
at 9-1/4 percent per annum or such other rate as
the Borrower and the Bank may determine from time
to time.
Project
Description:             (a) planting/replanting with high yielding varieties
of cocoa up to 72,000 acres; (b) training staff and
farmers in modern cocoa production techniques; (c) re-
habilitating 216 acres of state-owned seed gardens
with Amazon hybrid varieties and establishing 25 acre
seed garden of varieties resistent to swollen shoot
virus disease; (d) constructing or rehabilitating and
upgrading of 663 miles of secondary/farm-access roads
in project areas; and (e) providing office facilities
and staff quarters for project administration entities.



ANN_X III
Page 2
Estimated Cost of Project                        US&IOO0_
Category                         Local     Foreign     Total
On-farm costs of new planting
and replanting                           10.79        3.26     14.05
Staff and training                          7.16       0.79       7.95
Buildings                                   0.61       0.18       0.79
Vehicles and sprayers                       0.34       1.24       158
Road program, including personal
costs, equipment operating costs,
civil works contracts and road             3.23       1.63       4.86
equipmTent
Operational costs for operating
offices and vehicles of staff            0_42          o.41      0.83
Sub-total                      22.55        7.51     30.06
Contingencies                               l.~         0.36      1.51
Physical                                   6.33        2.10      8.3
Price                                       -43                  84
Total                          30-03       9-97      40-00
Financing Flan                                      US$'000
20.0
IBRD loan
Federal Government                                     10.0
State Governments                                       10.0
TOTAL                                                  40.0
Estimated Disbursements                              Annual            Cumulative
(US$' 000)
FY 75                                           2,880               2,880
FY 76                                           3,360               6,240
4,680              10,920
FY 78                                           3,670              14,590
FY 79                                           2,600              17,190
FY, 80                                          1,900              19,090
rv 81                                             910              20,000



ANNEX III
Page 3
Procurement
Arrangements:            Procurement of vehicles, tractors, road making equip-
ment, sprayers, tools, fertilizers and insecticides
valued at US$6.1 million through international compe-
titive bidding, with domestically manufactured items
being allowed 15 percent preference in bid compariihon.
Contracts for civil works, valued at US$3.8 million,
not large enough to attract foreign interest; however,
foreign firms would not be precluded from bidding.
Domestic contractors to be given 7.5 percent pre-
ference. Remainder of project expenditures are for
hired labor, staff salaries, planting material, and
operating expenses.
Economic Rate
of Return:               25 percent for Western State component and 19 percent
for Mid-Western State component.
Appraisal Report:         282-UNI dated May 21, 1974.






r                              \                  |'||1|1| 1lililillilIlI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW PLANTING AREAS
g                                \                 L       j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREAS OF MASS INFECTION
\~~~~~~~        -      (with  swollen shoot dosease)
(                                                      \                    O _ _ __ 10   2 0   3 0   4 0   5 0
/                ---T II         J     hi,  .p d,
§                            K          \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, Iserd 8,nk -nd ;t filil
J                                ___T)SA
K~~\  ~~~                          I0If~~~e  ~~eAd                t
I  GE    R   
WESTERN STATE                   u
SECON9D            COCOA PROJECT                                 \             -                / c -i. v J ........C
Zn  PROJECT AREAS                                OIL, PL PRO
'a                                                                                                     0'~~~~~~~7- 



5-00'                         530        /                  600                           630'
NIGERIA                                                        k
MID -WESTERN      STATE                                                                             LOKOJ     :    ;
SECOND COCOA PROJECT '                                           _           Kobbo
as      Cocoa Growing Area                                     (
Proposed Nrojecr Feeder Roods
Igorral Regional Units
4   ~   Western -nd Mid-Western Stare Oil PaIm Projects               >s
Trunk Roads                                                  *'    L., -    ..
7'30                Posed Roads                                             r (                                                        7'30_
i     stute Capitals                                            x-IE.2l:   T4 /                           tt 
i     Prosincial Headquarters          j             4 \          A KIO.KdO;       D O\-S7
*     Dirsiona.l Hecdquanters                                 _
o    Towns ond Villages
- - -   State Boundories                 |                    /                     :
Provinciol Boundories                    Co          p.
*...    Divisionol Boundaries                                )E                                 S A  K o
u.Y'u   R,e,s r                                            J                           I              Agenebode 
ig             0  W   A, a    -W N  -- ;.tIdolNs
O       10       20       30               t       a  j°   ) !W           '-  .   -                           /
7 00'                 MILES                                        (     --.t          -        i700-
0         20         40          0                                                   i
.. .........
Illussi\
b                                                                 %~~~~~~~b
t- I.      -
500\                                                                                         ....... S-,s ........Usr ....... 
g                             -  N  t.Ci  E  R  _:_  w  9  ..............  X = .................... pX ................... S~~...... ...
eu-     - N  uo-wruursn I G E R I A                                 - -  0  q B   ,o                                                   5-00'-
1:  4             X           1t                     <                     g  0   Y   E   N   g  J     4                           zl= R  BEN
W E S T  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                                                 u
Gu/rtno  --Inm,nnstiuuut          530~~~~~~~CIT                  6       A00 6.3



