Report No. PID8500
Project Name                     China-Huai River Pollution Control Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Urban Environment
Project ID                       CNPE47345
Borrower(s)                      PRC
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Anhui Provincial Finance Bureau,
Anhui Province and Anhui Project
Management Office and the municipalities
of Bengbu, Bozhou, Fuyung,
Guoyang, Huaibei, Huainan, Luan and Suzhou
238 Funan West Road, Hefei 230061, Anhui Province
Contact Person: Ms. Liu Hua, Deputy Director, World Bank
Loan Division Tel: 86-551-5100160 Fax: 86-551 510-0162
Email: afbwbd@mail.hf.ah.cn pmo<hfshzhy@mail.rf.ah.cn>
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 23, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         October 23, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Within the last decade, the quality of surface and ground water has
declined all over China, resulting from a rapid increase in discharged,
untreated wastewater. For example, from 1980-97 the country's urban water
supply grew from 9 to 45 billion m3/year but only 4 billion m3/y were
treated in 1997. There are various reasons for this, such as inefficient
enforcement of existing environmental regulations requiring polluters to
treat wastewater prior to discharge, inadequate allocations of financial
resources for wastewater treatment by both industries and municipalities,
and also a poor institutional framework for managing wastewater matters in
municipalities.Pollution control strategy. Recognizing the deteriorating
environment, the Government adopted a strategy for water pollution control
in the mid-1990s. The key features of that strategy are: (a) immediate
substantial reduction of industrial pollution through strict enforcement
of discharge standards; and (b) gradual reduction of residential pollution
so that about 60% of the country's residential wastewater is treated in
municipal wastewater treatment plants by 2010. The integration of
industrial and residential wastewater treatment where appropriate, and
establishment of wastewater utilities with sound cost-recovery to
contribute to investment in addition to ensuring sustained operations are
parts of that strategy.Huai River. The proposed project is located in the
Huai River Basin, home to over 150 million people. The watercourse
measures approximately 1,000 km long, and forms a large basin (190,000
km2) with multiple water users, both industrial and residential. In the
mid-1990s, the growing pollution in the Basin reached a level, which
resulted in serious accidents, and which caused factories and municipal
water supplies to close for several days. To correct this situation, the



Government decided to accelerate improvements in the water quality of the
Basin and delegated responsibility for implementation to the four
provincial governments of the Basin: Henan, Anhui, Shandong and Jiangsu.
In general, the provinces were instructed to reach Class III surface water
quality standards in the Huai main stream and its key tributaries by the
year 2000. Huai River pollution control. Initially, the provinces focused
on industry. Small, inefficient plants were closed and the remaining
enterprises were ordered to construct treatment facilities or implement
clean technologies by the end of 2000. These actions are gradually
achieving results. For example, during 1996-97 in Henan and Anhui
provinces, the industrial pollution discharges expressed in chemical
oxygen demand (COD) dropped from 968,000t/y to 244,000t/y. Since there
was not a single municipal treatment plant in the Basin in 1996, the
Government directed that municipal wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) for
73 major cities should be under construction or completed by end-2000. Of
these, 18 WWTPs are to be in Anhui Province and 14 in Shandong.Huai River
monitoring. The Huai River Basin's water quality is monitored by the Huai
River Basin Commission (HRBC), which also records flows in the Basin and
in the Provinces. The HRBC samples the water at 31 locations at boundaries
between the provinces while the provincial water resources bureaus and
environmental bureaus sample the water quality in 82 nationally monitored
river sections and verify compliance with wastewater discharge standards
within each Province. The monitoring of water quality variables by
various laboratories often overlaps, while quality control, including the
exchange of data among the agencies, is rare. Due to historical reasons,
organic pollution is identified in terms of COD. The biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD), which provides a better estimate of the biological effect of
organic matters on the River and which is widely recognized as a key
variable for surface water quality assessment, is used sporadically. Also,
laboratories of various institutions use different methodologies;
coordination among laboratories, including sharing and comparing the data,
is negligible.
2. Objectives
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators :The
development objective of the proposed project focuses on supporting the
Government's strides for environmental recovery of the Huai River and its
tributaries. The project would pursue the objective through: (a)
providing facilities for collection and treatment of wastewater; and (b)
establishing competent municipal wastewater utilities to be responsible
for managing the facilities in the parts of the Huai River Basin
administered by Anhui and Shandong Provinces. The project would also
upgrade water quality monitoring practices in the Basin.Indicators.
Progress in meeing the development objective would be measured in terms
of: (a) collection efficiency of wastewater generated within the project
entities; (b) reduction of pollution generated by the project entities;
(c) operational performance of the new wastewater utilities; and (d)
successful completion of a pilot project, which would detail the
implementation steps for upgrading the Basin-widewater quality monitoring
system.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank Group brings considerable experience to assist in policy
formulation and investment program design. It also draws on its growing
-2 -



experience in addressing institutional and financial reform within water
and wastewater utilities in China. During the identification and design
phase, Bank Group assistance enabled the provinces to better select
subprojects in cities, to prepare the latter to face financial
requirements of large investments by definig relevant, balanced financial
contributions through fees and taxes; and to address integrated management
of sewerage activities. The integration of septic tank management into
the wastewater program is new in China projects and will result in a
substantial improvement of operational practices. The Bank Group's
involvement will enhance the construction quality control of the physical
investments, accelerate strengthening and training, and contribute its
experience in bringing about meaningful utility reform in the sector. For
the river quality monitoring of the Huai Basin, the Bank Group's support
will also complement reforms in river basin management and organization
carried out with the assistance of UN agencies. Monitoring water quality
through applying uniform sampling methods and identical criteria and
standards by involved water monitoring agencies will enable the basin
agency to establish better assessment of pollution status.
4. Description
The project has three main components: (a) Anhui component; (b) Shandong
component; and (c) the Huai water quality monitoring component.
The Anhui component includes interventions in the municipalities of
Huaibei, Bengbu, Huainan, Fuyang, Bozhou, Suzhou, Luan, and Guoyang. The
project will finance the construction of sewers, wastewater pumping
stations, office buildings, office and sewer maintenance equipment, and
technical assistance for implementation. The component will also provide
institutional strengthening for the Anhui Monitoring Center to upgrade its
equipment, estalish a computer network, provide vehicles to transport
staff and water samples, and improve the skills of staff. The total cost
of the component is estimated at US$143.7 million.
The Shandong component includes interventions in the municipalities of
Feicheng, Heze, Rizhao, and to Ju County.    The Shandong component will
finance sewers, wastewater pumping stations and water treatment plants.
It will also finance interventions aimed at making improvements to the
mill's processing technologies.    The project will also improve on-site
sanitation facilities for the mill's staff accommodations. The total cost
of the component is estimated at US$68.2 million.
Huai water quality monitoring component   will upgrade the water quality
monitoring system in the Huai Basin River Commission.    The total cost of
the component is estimated at US$2 million.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               128.6
IBRD                     103.7
Total Project Cost       232.3
6. Implementation
Implementing Arrangements. Each province would manage the implementation
of its component. For that purpose they created Leading Groups (LG)
comprising officials of the provincial bureaus headed by Vice-Governors in
1997 and 1998. The LGs designated Anhui Finance Bureau and Shandong
Construction Commission as the agencies responsible for managing the
respective components. These established and staffed Provincial Project
-3 -



Management Offices (PMO) to guide the execution of sub-components by
respective municipalities. The Huai River Basin Commission, which would
manage implementation of the Huai water quality monitoring component
(jointly with the State Environmental Protection Agency), has also
established and staffed a PMO.The municipalities which were selected by
provincial LGs are completing project preparation. They would manage the
implementation of their respective sub-components. Within the
municipalities, LGs were created for municipal coordination and guidance.
The municipal Project Management Office (MPMO) would be in charge of the
implementation. These have also created specialized wastewater companies
(WCs) as municipal enterprises, and decentralized the direct
responsibility for execution of the sub-component to these companies. The
WCs would operate and maintain the facilities upon completion of
construction. The Chengwu Paper Mill would establish a special unit to
execute the IBRD-funded component and provide regular reports to the
provincial project office.Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements. The
provincial PMOs would have principal responsibility for monitoring and
reporting on implementation progress of the Anhui and Shandong components
through semi-annual progress reports based on information compiled from
the municipalities. In addition, PMOs would annually submit compliance
reports on the status of the environment, resettlement and institutional
development and various financial statements.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability would be assured by actions to be implemented within the
project in three area: (i) finance; (ii) institution building; and (iii)
engineering and operations. The recently enacted Tariff Regulation 1192
sets the framework not only for the proposed project but also for the
whole sector by applying a rational tariff policy geared at sustaining
wastewater operations. The creation of autonomous utility companies with
proper management with direct use of their collected revenues, which was
supported by the State and the two provinces, should foster the
development of the wastewater companies as business undertakings that
would apply modern management principles. Comprehensive training combined
with a focussed technical assistance program would build up the competence
and motivation for implementing, operating and maintaining the wastewater
treatment plants. Sustaining the impact of the research and analytical
capacity within the Huai River Basin Commission would be assured by
enhancing the Basin-wide monitoring system, unifying the sampling and
analytical methods, and strengthening the respective capacities within the
Basin. Finally the project addresses an issue of high priority to local,
provincial and state government in delivering affordable basic urban
services within conducive environmental conditions necessary for sustained
economic growth with unpolluted water resources becoming and increasing
scarce commodity.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons from past operations focus on several areas of concern related
to this project: (a) basin-wide capacity for environmental monitoring, and
(b) management systems of municipal wastewater agencies. Experience in
river basin management demonstrates the need and efficiency of
macro-managing the Basin's water quality with water quantity. There would
be an important role for the Bank in assisting with institutional reforms
to integrate the Huai Basin River Commission as the resource management
unit and ensure necessary cooperation with the provinces, which would
-4 -



remain the executing bodies. Tariff Setting Principles: In most
wastewater agencies, tariffs are set too low vis-a-vis operation and
maintenance costs to generate positive net cashflow. Consequently,
agencies are burdened with fairly significant disincentives to develop
technology, institutional design and manpower advancement that would
maintain and improve services. Past projects have often encountered
difficulties in implementing agreed tariff increases in a timely manner
sometimes occasionally delaying loan/credit effectiveness and generally
affecting effective institutional development. Central core agencies have
come to understand the issue and have introduced guidelines that
specifically apply to priority areas and river basins. This project has
benefited from an early decision made by the provinces to establish
provincial guidelines and implementation of tariffs that became effective
when Planning Authorities endorsed the technical project. Municipal
Governments involved in this project have clearly faced the expected
financial efforts of future requirements and those who could not make
satisfactory commitments were dropped out of project consideration.
Support for institutional reform: The establishment of financially
autonomous utility enterprises to develop and manage urban services is a
long standing Chinese practice and avoids many of the management
difficulties of publicly owned utilities in other countries. However
wastewater companies have only recently been given the same autonomy
generally by absorbing drainage bureaus and construction management units
already active in the sector into separate enterprises. While prior
experience of the bureaus will benefit the transition, substantial levels
of technical assistance will be needed to strengthen the new companies'
managerial, financial and operational capacities. In order to avoid
potential delays that affected start-up in other similar operations, in
the present case the Borrower and Bank missions developed an institutional
development plan during preparation and carried out early measures which
required little external assistance.Extent of technical assistance: Full
utilization of TA funds by borrowers at the local level remains
problematic in the China urban portfolio. The costs of the identified
packages are modest in terms of percentage of the total project costs.
Since the technical assistance is essential for achieving the project
objectives, the main TA packages will be procured through advanced
contracting and are part of the conditions of disbursement.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     The project is not in the
program of targeted interventions.
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Complete environmental assessments have been
prepared, reviewed by Bank staff and found to be satisfactory meeting all
criteria and guidelines outlined in OP/BP/GP 4.01. Fundamentally, from an
environmental standpoint, project components will collect and treat
wastewater which had previously been discharged untreated from many point
sources. In this respect, once completed, the works will provide
environmental benefits to river reaches near the project municipalities;
the most important of thee benefits is to improve water quality around
water intakes. The EA clearly shows this to be the case through a variety
of water quality modeling results. Temporary environmental concerns
include those typically associated with construction of wastewater
treatment plants, such as excavation, site management, acquisition of
land, and potential resettlement of small numbers of residents. During the
- 5 -



operation of the treatment systems, major concerns include disposal of
sludge, the safe handling of chemicals, and sustainability of plant
operations in general so that receiving waters would not be degraded. For
the construction of new sewer networks, the expected environmental impacts
are those associated with urban construction projects, such as some
disruption of traffic, spoils and soil management, noise and dust
pollution. The most important issues which the EAs addressed are:a) Sludge
Disposal: The EA documents indicate that sludge coming from the treatment
plants will be deposited into local landfills or used as a soil
amendment. Written agreements to this affect have already been signed by
the parties.b) Discharge Water Quality: Each of the treatment plants must
meet national standards. These values are currently BOD, 30 mg/L, COD,
100 mg/L and SS, 30 mg/L (the Bank guidelines are much more liberal). It
is expected that the proposed treatment plants will be fully able to meet
these goals when operating properly.c) Industrial Discharges: Since this
project will not deal directly with industrial discharges, enterprises
must be encouraged to pre-treat prior to discharging directly into the
municipal sewer system and comply with existing sewer standards for BOD,
COD, SS, grease, heavy metals, phenols, toxins, etc. (see GB
8978-88-Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standards).
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager:
Edouard Henri Motte
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-2923
Fax:   (202) 522-1787
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
27, 2000.
-6-



