Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21013-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$105.5 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
February 28, 2001
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.0 = US$0.12
US$1.0 = Y8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC       Advisory Consultants                    MOF    Ministry of Finance
AEMC    Anhui Environmental Monitoring Center    MWR   Ministry of Water Resources
BOD      Biochemical Oxygen Demand               NCB    National Competitive Bidding
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy             NPV     Net Present Value
CNAO    China National Audit Office              OED    Operations Evaluation Department
COD      Chemical Oxygen Demand                  PAP     Project Affected Person
EA       Environmental Assessment                PCD      Project Concept Document
EMP      Environmental Monitoring Plan           PIP      Project Implementation Plan
EPB      Environment Protection Bureau           PIU      Project Implementation Unit
ERR      Economic Rate of Return                 PMO    Project Management Office
GPN      General Procurement Notice              PPP     Project Procurement Plan
FRR      Financial Rate of Return                PSR      Project Supervision Report
HRB      Huai River Basin                        RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
HRBC    Huai River Basin Commission              SBD      Standard Bidding Documents
ICB      International Competitive Bidding       SEPA    State Environmental Protection Agency
ICR      Implementation Completion Report        SS      Suspended Solids
LG       Leading Group                           TPH      Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons
LIBOR   London Interbank Offered Rate            WC       Wastewater Company
MBD      Model Bidding Documents                 WTP    Wastewater Treatment Plant
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mr. Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager/Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Edouard Motte, EASUR



CHINA
HIUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  2
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       4
3. Benefits and target population                                                      4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       4
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           5
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          6
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            6
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    7
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         7
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            7
2. Financial                                                                           8
3. Technical                                                                           9
4. Institutional                                                                       9
5. Environmental                                                                      10
6. Social                                                                             11
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 12
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     12
2. Critical risks                                                                     13
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     14



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             14
2. Other                                                                               14
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          23
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                              25
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        39
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      48
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    49
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   52
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             57
Annex 11: Environmental Assessment and Resettlement                                       59
MAP(S)
IBRD 31224 Huai River Basin



CHINA
Huai River Pollution Control Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASUR
Date: February 28, 2001                           Team Leader: Edouard Henri Motte
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang             Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Varma
Project ID: P047345                               Sector(s): US - Urban Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ Grant      [ ] Guarantee     []Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 105.50
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                     107.90          13.49        121.39
IBRD                                                           0.00         105.50        105.50
Total:                                                       107.90         118.99        226.89
Borrower: THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: ANHUI AND SHANDONG PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS
a) ANHUI PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT (Anhui Provincial Finance Bureau, Anhui Project Management Office)
Address: 238 Funan West Road, Hefei 230061, Anhui Province
Contact Person: Ms. Liu Hua, Deputy Director, World Bank Loan Division
Tel: 86-551-5100160                Fax: 86-551 510-0162                Email: afbwbd@mail.hf.ah.cn;
pmo<hfshzhy(mail.hf.ah.cn>
b) SHANDONG PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT (Shandong Provincial Construction Commission, Shandong Project
Management Office), and the Chengwu Paper Mill. Address: 3 Jida Road, Jinan, 250002, Shandong Province Contact
Person: Mr. Song Wenxu, Division Chief, Debt and Finance Management Division, Shandong Finance Bureau; Tel:
86-531-2951900; Fax: 86-531-2920-753 1; Email: sdfd@publicjn.sd.cn; sppmo@in-public.sd.eninfo.net
Estimated disbu rsements ( Bank FY/U$$M):
FY         2001       2002       2003      2004       2005      2006
Annual    0.00       15.00      30.00      30.00     25.00      5.50
Cumulative    0.00      15.00      45.00      75.00    100.00    105.50
Project implementation period: 2001--2004
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators:
The project will support Govermment efforts to upgrade water quality in the Huai River Basin (one of the
most polluted river systems in China), in particular in the provinces of Anhui and Shandong. This
objective would be achieved through improved collection and treatment of wastewater in a number of
municipalities in the two provinces in a sustainable manner.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress in meeting the development objective would be measured in terms of: (a) treatment of wastewater
in the project-financed (and other) wastewater treatment plants up to capacity; and (b) institutional
development and financial viability of newly established wastewater treatment companies.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16321-CHA                Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
CAS Memorandum of April 22, 1999 and Country Program Matrix (FY99-0 1).
Improving the environment, and in particular water quality in the major river basins, is one of the major
focal points of the Bank's strategy in China. Within this overall strategy, the project would contribute to
upgrading water quality in the Huai River Basin (HRB), especially in Anhui and Shandong Provinces.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Wastewater treatment facilities and institutional mechanisms for monitoring and control of water pollution
have lagged significantly behind the major increases in urban water supply to domestic consumers, and the
rapid growth in industries during the last two decades. These have led to a substantial increase in the
discharge of untreated wastewater into water courses, thereby causing a major decline in the quality of
surface and ground water in the entire country. For example, in 1997 only four billion m3 of urban
wastewater were treated, out of a total supply of 45 billion m3.
Key features of the Government's strategy for water pollution control are: (a) the immediate substantial
reduction of industrial pollution through strict enforcement of discharge standards; (b) the gradual
reduction of urban residential pollution, with about 60% of the country's urban residential wastewater
being treated in municipal wastewater treatment plants by 2010; and (c) the integration of industrial and
residential wastewater treatment where appropriate, and the establishment of financially viable wastewater
utilities.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Covering about 190,000 km2 and carrying a population of over 150 million, the Huai River Basin is one of
China's largest and highly polluted river basins. Its various industries employ the Basin's water resources
in multiple ways. (See Annex 4 for more details on HRB). Improving water quality in HRB is one of the
directives of the Govermment's Ninth Five Year Plan.
- 2 -



Reducing Municipal Pollution. The Government and the Bank agreed to focus the project in the provinces
of Anhui and Shandong, as non-Bank programs support pollution control initiatives in Jiangsu and Henan,
the other two provinces in the Huai Basin. In order to complement the on-going efforts to control industrial
pollution, the project would focus on decreasing municipal pollution, mainly through construction of
wastewater collection systems and municipal treatment plants. The project would also support end-of-pipe
treatment of industrial wastewater prior to discharge into public sewers. Participating municipalities and
industrial enterprises would be selected based on their initiative and commitment to pollution control in a
sustainable manner.
Institutional and Financial Reforms. The project would address the key issue of institutional arrangements
for municipal wastewater services. Embryo wastewater companies (WCs) were already established under
Company Law in the participating municipalities during project preparation. These WCs have
responsibility for the construction and management of wastewater facilities. The September 1999
Government Decree 1192 provides the basis for setting tariffs that are adequate for cost recovery and
financial viability. The project would address the important issue of institutional strengthening for the
nascent WCs during project implementation.
Water Quality Monitoring. Upgrading the Basin-wide water quality monitoring system is another
important sectoral issue. A short study carried out during project preparation recommends several actions:
(a) improvement in the distribution of monitoring stations within the Basin; (b) agreement in the selection
of common variables for analysis and in improved management of laboratories; (c) the establishment of a
monitoring database; and (d) institutional arrangements for database management and data-sharing.
Provincial and national agencies involved in the Basin's water quality issues recognize the need for a
substantial overhaul of the systems and procedures; the complexity of the task is compounded by the need
for institutional reforms which are now under consideration. During Negotiations the Government
proposed a workshop to discuss the report of the study with all stakeholders, and indicated that it would
thereafter consider action on further improvements to water quality monitoring, including through grant
technical assistance from donor support, twinning arrangements with other intemational river basin
agencies, etc.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative              ank-           of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
mm) .   Total .U.$M.        - financing
Anhui component                    Urban              139.55       61.5     70.55       66.9
Environment
Shandong component                 Urban               67.91       29.9     33.90       32.1
Environment
Total Project Costs                 207.46       91.4    104.45       99.0
Interest during construction                 18.38       8.1       0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                     1.05       0.5       1.05        1.0
Total Financing Required                   226.89      100.0    105.50      100.0
Note: Final digits may not add due to rounding.
-3 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support the achievement of the following key policy and institutional reforms: (a)
reduction of pollution levels (especially from domestic sources) in the HRB; and (b) development of
commercially viable WCs that operate under company law.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The project would generate benefits as follows: (a) environmental benefits, through
improved water quality in the Huai River and its tributaries; (b) health benefits through reduced risk of
exposure to illnesses caused by water bome vectors; and (c) institutional reforms, through increased
efficiency in wastewater service provision and reduced burden on public funds for investments and
operations and maintenance.
Target Population. The immediate beneficiaries would be the current population of about 2.5 million
residents and 800,000 residents respectively in the participating municipalities in Anhui Province and
Shandong Province. The downstream riparian populations, who are the broader beneficiaries, would be
much larger but cannot be estimated precisely.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementing Arrangements. Leading Groups (LG), headed by Vice Govemors, and comprising senior
officials from the relevant provincial bureaus, have been established to take overall responsibility for
project implementation in each province. The Anhui Finance Bureau and the Shandong Construction
Commission, which will be responsible for managing the respective components, have established and
staffed provincial Project Management Offices (PMOs) to guide the execution of the sub-components by
the respective municipalities.
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established in each municipality to implement the project
under the guidance of the municipal Construction Commission and the Finance Bureau, as well as the
provincial PMO. The PIUs are comprised largely of staff of the municipal WCs. The WCs would operate
and maintain the facilities upon completion of construction. The Chengwu Paper Mill in Shandong
Province would establish a special unit to execute the IBRD-funded component, and would report to the
Shandong PMO.
On-lending Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan
to Anhui and Shandong provinces, which in turn would enter into on-lending agreements with the
participating municipalities. The municipalities would finally on-lend to the respective WCs/Chengwu
Paper Mill. The final on-lending arrangement with the WCs would be on the same terms and conditions as
the Bank loan; however, Shandong province would charge a mark-up, which would be higher for the
Chengwu Paper Mill. Each beneficiary agency would carry the foreign exchange risk.
Procurement and Construction Supervision Arrangements. The two PMOs have contracted with reputed
Chinese tendering companies to carry out procurement under both ICB and NCB procedures on behalf of
the implementing agencies. Eligible civil works contracts awarded from January 2001 until loan
effectiveness, up to a limit of $2.9 million from the loan in the case of Anhui Province, and $2.5 million in
the case of Shandong Province (as well as eligible training activities during this period), will be financed
retroactively from the loan. National supervision institutes would carry out construction supervision in
each province, under the overall guidance of intemational firms of advisory consultants (ACs).
- 4 -



Financial Management. The two PMOs will have overall responsibility for the financial management of
the respective components, while the PIUs will be responsible for their respective sub-components.
Traditional disbursement methods would be used as opposed to the PMR-based disbursement systems. The
Finance Bureaus of both provinces are familiar with Bank disbursement procedures. The administration,
accounting, and financial reporting of the project will be in accordance with Government regulations
acceptable to the Bank. Adequate internal controls have been built into the management system for all
major areas of project operation. Project financial and accounting staff will receive relevant training in
financial management at Project Launch.
Auditing Arrangements. As with other Bank-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit
Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under the name of State Audit
Administration, would have overall responsibility for auditing project accounts, with the respective
Provincial Audit Departments carrying out the audits. Audited financial statements of the WCs, the
Chengwu Paper Mill, and the PMOs, as well as the audit reports of the provincial Special Accounts and the
Statements of Expenditure would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial
year. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that audit reports of the implementing agencies would
include an opinion on whether the agencies were in compliance with the respective financial covenants, and
whether they had taken out adequate insurance on goods and works financed from loan proceeds. No
outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any of the executing agencies involved in the project.
Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation Arrangements. The provincial PMOs would monitor and report
on implementation progress of the Anhui and Shandong components through semi-annual progress reports
based on information compiled from the municipalities. In addition, the PMOs would furnish annual
compliance reports on the status of the environment, land acquisition and resettlement, institutional
development, and various financial. matters. The two PMOs would furnish first progress reports by
January 31, 2002. Within six months of closing of each component, the PMOs would furnish an
implementation completion report to the Bank, reviewing project achievements against objectives, including
costs incurred and benefits derived, as well as the performance and contribution of all parties associated
with project execution. Both headquarters and resident mission staff would jointly supervise project
implementation twice a year. A mid-term review will be undertaken jointly with the Government in early
2003 to evaluate the project's achievements and identify any corrective measures necessary.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following altemative project ideas were considered before settling on the current project concept and
scope:
(a) A program to support a comprehensive basin-wide pollution control construction program of treatment
facilities for industrial and municipal pollution sources and institutional reforms, through two to three
projects over five years - This program was considered too ambitious and was dropped in favor of a more
focused Bank intervention.
(b) A pilot project to support industrial pollution abatement in 20 priority polluting enterprises in Anhui
Province - The project was abandoned as only one of the 20 enterprises was creditworthy.
(c) A project to support municipal wastewater facilities and end-of-pipe industrial treatment in the
provinces of Anhui, Jiangsu, and Shandong - As Jiangsu Province obtained financing from other sources,
the current project emerged from this proposal.
- 5 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project          J (Bank (PSR)aRatings
:_____________________________  ___________________         (Bank-financed prqjects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Urban environment: water, wastewater, China: Yunnan Urban            S              S
sanitation, solid waste, industrial  Environment Project (Ln.
pollution.                         4055/Cr. 2892)
Declining water quality in rivers,  China: Guangxi Urban             S              S
industrial pollution, low capacity for   Environment Project (Ln.
environmental monitoring, solid waste. 4348/Cr. 3097)
Polluted rivers, industrial water and air China: Shandong Environment  U            S
pollution, monitoring water quality, low Project (Ln. 4237)
capacity for operation of facilities.
Industrial pollution, contaminated  China: Southern Jiangsu          S             S
water resources, degradation of urban  Environmental Protection
environment.                       Project (Ln. 3582)
Inadequate monitoring capacity and    China: Environmental           S              S
weak ecological research.          Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 2522)
Provision and management of basic    China: Fourth Rural Water       S             S
services to low income communities.   Supply and Sanitation Project
(Ln. 4485/Cr. 3233)
Other development agencies
A similar spectrum of issues including  The Asian Development Bank
deteriorated surface and ground water  has been financing a number of
sources, environmental degradation, low urban and environmental
capacity of operating agencies.    projects, and is expanding its
Typically, less attention has been given support. Bilateral donors, e.g.,
to institutional and financial matters,   Germany, Spain, Norway, have
compared to construction of facilities.  financed wastewater treatment
plants.
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience with urban wastewater systems. The Operations Evaluation Department (OED) review of
Bank financed urban (water and) sanitation projects has shown generally good achievement of physical
targets, but less success in sustaining the financial viability of municipal service providers. Preliminary
indications from an on-going OED review of the Bank's China water supply and wastewater program
appear to confirm these findings. Earlier sector work in China ("Urban Enviromnental Service
Management", Report No. 13073-CHA) also supports these findings, noting the need for greater reliance
on user charges, which are presently levied at levels that do not sustain assets or institutions.
- 6 -



Experience with pollution control in river basins. Experience with pollution control projects in river
basins, e.g., in Brazil (Guarapiranga/Sao Paulo, Parana, and Minas Gerais, as well as in an upcoming
project in Paraiba du Sul River Basin) have shown the importance of adequate monitoring and data bases,
as well as the need to link the data to investment planning with regard to wastewater treatment.
Impact on the Huai River Pollution Control Project. The project has benefited from these lessons by
taking up-front actions on institutional matters and tariffs. The municipalities have already established
WCs under company law, appointed their core management teams and approved tariffs to achieve full cost
recovery. Agreements reached at appraisal regarding tariff principles, as well as tariff increases required
during the project in each municipality, were confirmed at Negotiations, and will be monitored during
implementation. Technical assistance under the project will support the development of the WCs as
financially viable operations.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There is a strong commitment to the project at all levels of government, as improving water quality in the
Huai River is one of the directives under the Government's Ninth Five Year Plan. The provincial LGs have
been involved in all important project-related policy issues, and have taken up-front action on institutional
reforms and sustainability (see above). They have made arrangements to ensure counterpart financing,
appointed local design institutes to complete detailed designs, and contracted leading Chinese institutions
for ICB and NCB procurements. Both provinces intend to proceed with advance procurement prior to loan
effectiveness. Government has indicated that it will upgrade water quality monitoring in the Huai River
Basin through its own resources.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank involvement in the project will provide further impetus to institutional and financial reforn in the
urban wastewater sector in China. Bank assistance during the identification and design phase enabled the
provinces to select technically sound least cost sub-projects in the municipalities, to prepare detailed
financial plans (including the securing of counterpart funds from a variety of sources), and to insure
financial sustainability through adequate tariffs. Through the use of implementation covenants (see Section
G), the Bank will enable the municipalities to take an integrated approach to sanitation, i.e., to maintain
drains and combined sewers, to regularly desludge septic tanks, and to enforce industrial discharge
regulations, in addition to service provision through separate sewers and treatment plants. Bank
involvement will also heighten the focus on construction quality. The Bank intends to support Government
efforts to strengthen water quality monitoring in the HRB by assisting in finding appropriate bilateral grant
technical assistance, and to link Huai River Basin Commission (HRBC) with agencies of developed
countries engaged in similar tasks.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
Cost effectiveness NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
The main benefits of the project lie in its contribution to the overall improvement of water quality in HRB
and in local environmental improvements in the project municipalities. In the case of the former, the impact
cannot be quantitatively assessed in the absence of reliable monitoring data. However, a significant part of
the planned pollution reduction would not materialize in a "without project" situation, as the project
-7 -



investments will result in the treatment of 20% of the planned volume of 3.7 million m3/day of wastewater
in the two provinces by 2010. Technical assistance under the project will benefit participating
municipalities and provinces by enabling WCs to provide more efficient and sustainable wastewater
services to urban residents.
A variety of benefits are expected in the project municipalities, including: protection of downstream water
resources due to reduced bacteriological pollution; improved agricultural yields, since the receiving rivers'
waters are used for irrigation; and increased property values, by improving the quality of water flowing
through the urban centers. Benefits of this nature are difficult to translate into monetary values, hence
the economic viability of the project has been determined through cost-effectiveness, in particular
through detailed least-cost analyses of the project components, rather than cost-benefit considerations.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financing plan. The World Bank loan of $105.5 million will provide 46.5% of the total financing
required. Local bonds and domestic bank loans contribute 4.8% and 6.0% respectively. Intemal cash
generation and grant equity contributions from the state and municipal governments contribute 43% of
financing. Depending on the local situation, the mix of funding varies in individual WCs, e.g., the loan
financing varies from 42% to 64%.
Cost recovery and affordability. Wastewater tariffs are covenanted to be set at levels which: (a) enable
revenues to cover operating and maintenance costs, the greater of depreciation or debt service, and changes
in working capital requirements; and (b) in addition, will cover the portion of project costs not covered by
loans and other contributions. Financial projections for the period up to 2008 indicate that in 9 of 11 WCs,
current average wastewater tariffs will need to be, at most, doubled during the project period. In the
remaining two WCs, tariffs have to be increased to about four times the current levels. Individual WCs
and the corresponding municipalities have confirmed their agreement to raise the tariffs to these levels. As
wastewater tariffs are charged to all water users, irrespective of whether or not they are connected to a
sewer, the underlying concept of incremental revenues in FRR computation is not applicable.
Affordability analysis carried out indicates that the required tariffs would be affordable. The percentage of
income spent on water supply charges and wastewater charges (combined) by households in the lowest
20% income group in year 2005 would be around 1% of disposable income, i.e., well below the normally
accepted threshold of 4% to 5%.
Chengwu Paper Mill. A financial assessment of the project pollution control investments for the Chengwu
Paper Mill was carried out on the basis of the financial soundness (as measured by minimum thresholds for
debt service coverage ratio, current ratio, quick ratio, and debt-equity ratio) of its operations, as the project
investments will not directly generate additional revenues. The company is forecast to be able to maintain a
minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.2 during the projection period.
Fiscal Impact:
An analysis of municipal finances (see Annex 5) reveals that requirements for project counterpart funds in
the municipalities of both provinces are affordable. Project contributions during the life of the project as a
percentage of municipal revenues averages a maximum of 0.9% in the Anhui province municipalities, with
the corresponding figure in Shandong being 3%. Counterpart fund requirements as a percentage of
municipal investment capacities range from a low of 2% to 19%. The earmarked special fund being
established in each municipality for project counterpart funds would assure timely availability of
counterpart funds.
-8-



3. Technical:
Physical works under the project cover the first phase of a sewerage master plan in each municipality and
comprise wastewater collection systems (both interceptor and sanitary sewers), and wastewater treatment
facilities (screening, grit removal, extended aeration using oxidation ditch, disposal of processed sludge in
municipal sanitary landfills). These investments were determined based on: (a) feasibility studies for each
municipality, prepared by high quality national design institutes, after analysis of various technical options
for numbers, sizes, and locations of treatment plants, type of treatment, etc., to determine least cost
solutions; and (b) reviews of feasibility studies by international consultants. The project design is
technically sound and draws on best sanitary engineering practice, and applies criteria for low cost
technology and simplified operations.
Project cost. Annex 3 shows the estimated project costs by component and category. The Anhui
component and the Shandong component constitute 68%, and 32% respectively of the base cost of $174.6
million. The total project cost, including contingencies, is $207.5 million, while the total financing required
is $226.9 million. Cost estimates, based on similar works undertaken in recent years, and which include
contingencies computed per Bank norms, are considered satisfactory. Details of project costing are
available in project files.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
LGs and PMOs established by Anhui Province and Shandong Province, the Executing Agencies for the two
components (see Section C.4), are capable of providing direction to, and taking overall responsibility for,
the project activities in the respective provinces. At Negotiations, the provinces confirmed that the PMOs
will have the requisite number of appropriately qualified staff in place.
The PIUs, already established in each municipality/implementing unit, are fully staffed with qualified
personnel. Adequate technical assistance is included in the project for construction supervision and
institutional development. The project also includes sufficient allocation for development of provincial,
municipal, and WC staff through training in-country and overseas study tours.
4.2 Project management:
The functions and staffing of the two provincial PMOs responsible for project management have been
reviewed and they are capable of overall project management, including providing guidance to the PIUs in
the respective provinces. The Shandong PMO is currently managing the on-going Shandong
Environmental Project (Ln. 4237-CHA).
4.3 Procurement issues:
Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Section C4. The procurement assessment carried out
during project preparation (see Annex 6 for a summary) confirms that procurement arrangements are
adequate to carry out project procurement per current Bank Procurement Guidelines. The PMOs and PIUs
are capable of undertaking advanced procurement in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Task Team has assessed that the project: (a) will satisfy the Bank's financial management
requirements; and (b) will have in place an adequate financial management system that can provide accurate
and timely information on the status of the project in reporting formats agreed with the Bank. The report on
the assessment of the adequacy of the project's financial management system is available in the project files.
-9-



5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Complete environmental assessments have been prepared by provincial and municipal staff, reviewed by
Bank staff, and meet all criteria and guidelines outlined in OP/BP/GP 4.01. Copies of the EAs have been
placed in the Bank's Public Information Center. Please also see Annex 1 1 for more details on the
Environmental Assessment (EAs), and the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs).
During the course of preparing the EA and the EMP: (a) environmental benefits were assessed through
modeling; (b) temporary environmental concerns associated with construction were assessed and
appropriate mitigating actions were developed; and (c) environmental issues relating to the operation of the
treatment systems were examined and addressed. The EAs highlight the importance of: (a) ensuring that
sludge is disposed of safely; (b) ensuring that treated effluent discharge meets quality standards; and (c)
municipalities enforcing existing regulations requiring industry to comply with wastewater discharges into
sewers.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Under the EMP, an environmental protection management system will be established with the purpose of
implementing existing laws and regulations in each of the municipalities, with the contractor and the WCs
being responsible for carrying out environmental management and monitoring activities during construction
and during plant operations respectively. Information gathered will be made available to the municipal and
the provincial Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs), as well as to the public. An Annual Safeguard
Compliance Report will sununarize the previous year's environmental and social indicator data. The EMP
is assessed to be appropriate for the project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 8/24/2000 and 9/05/2000
The EAs were received during August 2000, reviewed and found to be satisfactory, and sent to Infoshop on
September 5, 2000. The EAs have also been approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency
(SEPA) in September 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During the twelve months leading up to the delivery of the provincial consolidated EAs and RAPs, many
meetings took place with city PIUs, utility companies, city EPBs, and other affected city organizations to
discuss the proposed project and the preparation of the sub-component environmental assessment reports.
These meetings took place monthly at a minimum and resulted in full collaboration of local officials and
community representatives, leading to the full support of the project and the EA process. In addition, the
TORs for the EAs, the draft EAs, and the final EAs were made available publicly in each of the project
municipalities.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Besides regular environmental reviews to be carried out during supervision missions, the Annual Safeguard
Compliance Report (see Section 5.2) will provide a year by year snapshot of progress on the environmental
- 10-



front. Project monitoring indicators (available in project files) will systematically measure the
environmental impact of the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The principal social issue is resettlement and the temporary/permanent acquisition of productive parcels of
land. Avoiding resettlement and minimizing impact on cropland where possible were key objectives during
project design; as a result, resettlement impacts are not large and project affected people (PAP) are
scattered throughout the project areas. Compensation for PAP will be in accordance with OD 4.30. Annex
11 provides the number of PAPs in each province, and the resettlement budgets required.
A detailed implementation schedule for the resettlement program has been drawn up and would involve the
PMOs and the municipal governments. The specific compensation and relocation-related activities, which
need to be completed before construction can commence, have been clearly listed in the RAPs, which are
available in project files. The RAPs have been reviewed and are considered acceptable.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The provincial and municipal governments are the key players in project preparation and implementation.
Section 5.4 above and 6.3 below describe the consultations with stakeholders, including PAPs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A number of meetings took place between project proponents and representatives of local communities to
solicit views and concerns. In the absence of local NGOs in China, the interests of most communities are
represented by elected and appointed representatives. The entire process of resettlement planning has been
participatory. Censuses and socio-economic surveys were conducted with the full participation of the
affected persons.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The PMOs have direct responsibility for ensuring that the project development objectives are achieved.
The affordability analysis confirms that even the poorest strata of society in the project municipalities can
benefit from the project. Section 6.5 below describes the monitoring arrangements being put in place.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
An internal and external monitoring system has been set up. The internal monitoring report will be
submitted to the Bank twice a year and the external monitoring report will be prepared by the independent
monitoring unit once a year. RAP implementation will also be monitored by regular visits of experts from
the Beijing Office, and during full supervision missions. The Annual Safeguard Compliance Report will
highlight issues as they arise both to provincial and municipal authorities, as well as to Bank management,
for appropriate action.
- 11 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the proect?
:olicy                         I            A;  p pl:  :    L:LL002  SA;   :tiV:00iS LLL'S iLiL.<ft:0022L00   ic abl ity
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Compliance will be monitored during supervision and through the Annual Safeguard Compliance Report.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The pollution reduction, institutional, and financial benefits of the project are expected to be sustainable
because of the overall commitment at all levels of Government to pollution control in river basins, and in
particular in the HRB, as well as: (a) the actions already taken to establish WCs under company law; (b)
enactment of tariff regulation 1192 to ensure financial viability; (c) financial covenants under the project to
ensure adequacy of tariffs; (d) provision of technical assistance for institutional development and
construction management; and (e) staff training.
- 12 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Efficient operation and maintenance of      M         Institutional development and training support
sewerage networks and treatment plans.               for staff of WCs in operations and maintenance.
Use of performance indicators to measure
capacity utilization of treatment plants, and staff
training.
Availability of adequate funding for        M         Financial covenants require WCs to annually
operations and maintenance.                          review adequacy of tariffs to meet O&M costs
and depreciation/debt service. Use of
perfonmance indicators to measure financial well
being of WCs.
M
Strong senior level interest at the levels of         Extensive discussions with the PMOs on the
the provinces, municipalities, and WCs in             Terms of Reference of the institutional
the outputs of the institutional                      development consultants. Signing of
development consultants, and in                       consultants' contract made a condition of
implementation of agreed proposals.                   disbursement for civil works. Use of
performance indicators to measure impact of
institutional development.
From Components to Outputs
Implementation of the Project               M         Strong ownership of the PIP, and in particular
Implementation Plan (PIP) by the                      the PPP, by the provinces, municipalities, and
provinces and the municipalities, with               the WCs. Use of performance indicators to
particular reference to the Project                   measure physical, institutional, and financial
Procurement Plan (PPP),                               outputs and outcomes of the project. Use of
counterpart funding, and construction                 financial covenant to ensure timely availability
management.                                           of required counterpart funding. Technical
assistance support for construction management
is a condition for disbursement for civil works.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 13 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The on-going Shandong Environment Project is currently rated "unsatisfactory" on implementation
progress because of issues relating to land acquisition and resettlement in the water supply and wastewater
components in Jinan Municipality. The Shandong PMO is working with the Bank's Shandong
Environment Project Task Team to resolve the pending issues of adequate compensation to the PAPs. It is
felt that these issues are best addressed under the Shandong Environment Project and that a formal linkage
with the proposed Huai River Project would not be appropriate.
Land acquisition and resettlement had already taken place for six government and/or bilateral funded
wastewater treatment plants that were under construction in six participating municipalities in Anhui
Province during the review and approval of the Project Concept Document (PCD). Although these
treatment plants are not part of the project, the task team reviewed the related land acquisition and
resettlement issues with the relevant agencies, and is of the view that these were carried out in accordance
with Chinese regulations and practices. The review further revealed no outstanding resetflement issues.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition lI
Execution of at least six (of eight) subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs) satisfactory to the Bank between the
project municipalities and their wastewater companies in Anhui Province, and three (of five) SLAs in
Shandong Province.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement conditions. Signing of contracts by the two provinces with consultants for institutional
development and construction management would be a condition for disbursement under the civil works
category. Execution of SLAs would be a condition for disbursement for the WCs and the Chengwu Paper
Mill for the civil works and goods categories.
Implementation covenants. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations from the Anhui and the Shandong
provincial governments that they would:
(a) implement the Institutional Development Plan agreed with the Bank;
(b) carry out or cause to be carried out, the resettlement of persons affected by the project according to the
RAPs in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) cause the PIUs to carry out the mitigation plans specified in the EA in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank;
(d) maintain the PMOs and PIUs throughout implementation with adequate qualified staff, assisted by
qualified staff from Construction Supervision Companies; and
(e) cause the municipalities to prepare, and fumish to the Bank for review through the provincial PMOs,
annual plans from 2002 for, and reports on: (i) improved maintenance of drainage and combined
sewerage; (ii) regular desludging of septic tanks; and (iii) enforcement of regulations regarding the
quality of industrial wastewater discharged into public sewers.
- 14 -



Financial covenants. At Negotiations assurances were obtained from the Provincial Governments that
they would:
(a) open Special Account (SA) in commercial banks on terrms acceptable to the Bank, maintain records of
expenditures with respect to withdrawals from SA and ensure that these records are audited by
independent auditors, and furnish to the Bank the audited records (including an opinion on the
statement of expenditure and the operation of the Special Accounts) within six months of the closing of
the fiscal year;
(b) ensure that the municipal authorities regularly deposit municipal government contributions into a
municipal deposit account for the project, based on regularly updated funding forecasts;
(c) cause municipalities to (i) prepare (and furnish to the Bank) an annual assessment by September 30
each year regarding the adequacy of wastewater tariffs to ensure that revenues cover operating and
maintenance costs, the greater of depreciation or debt service, and changes in working capital
requirements; and (ii) effect the required changes to tariffs in a timely fashion;
(d) cause the accounts of each WC and the Chengwu Paper Mill to be audited by independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank the audited statements along with relevant reports
within six months of the closing of the fiscal year;
(e) cause the wastewater company to take such measures as deemed necessary to ensure that by December
31, 2001 the accounts receivable resulting from its provision of wastewater services to customers does
not exceed an amount equal to three months of related billings, and take steps to gradually reduce
accounts receivable to 1.75 months by 2005; and
(f) cause the Chengwu Paper Mill to achieve or exceed (i) a current ratio of 2, (ii) a quick ratio of 0.8, and
(iii) a debt service coverage of 1.2; and not undertake any additional debt during the life of the loan
unless a financial forecast demonstrates that a debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 will be maintained.
Reporting and monitoring. At Negotiations assurances were obtained from the Anhui and the Shandong
Provincial Governments that they would: (a) furnish to the Bank consolidated provincial reports every six
months as per agreed formats, within thirty days after the end of each half year; (b) furnish by March 31
each year an Annual Safeguard Compliance Report on the status of compliance with EAs and RAPs; and
(c) carry out jointly with the Bank a mid term review of the project by March 31, 2003, and implement
agreed recommendations.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
LI 1. b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 15 -



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
E 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
ikEdouard Henri Motte                Keshav Va
Team Leader                              Cranager                     Country Manager
-16-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives        Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:     Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve water quality in    Required policy framework  Reports of SEPA, river  Control of non-point
major river basins in China. in place; well functioning   basin commissions, and  pollution, introduction of
institutions for basin   other relevant           environment-friendly
management, pollution    ministries/agencies, as well technology in industries,
control, and monitoring; and as Provincial Statistical    enforcement of water
essential infrastructure is in Yearbooks.         pollution control legislation
place.                                            in China.
Project Development      Outcome / Impact         Project reports:         (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
Upgrading water quality in  Treatment of domestic and  Capacity utilization of  Parallel environmental
Huai River Basin in the    industrial pollution in the   treatment plants, and water activities in the Basin, with
provinces of Anhui and   waste water treatment    quality data in Huai Basin  similar objectives, are
Shandong.                plants of the project cities  in the two provinces  successfully implemented.
up to installed capacity.    published by SEPA, HRBC
and Provincial EPBs.
Areas for improvement will
be identified and measures
to achieve them will be
proposed.
Establishment of well    Appropriate staffing, staff  Semi-annual progress  Policy support at the
performing and sustainable  training, and successful    reports on institutional and  national level, and at the
wastewater agencies in the  institutional development.  financial indicators, and    level of the two provinces,
two provinces.           Achievement of major     annual reports of        for the development of
project financial covenants. wastewater companies.  waste water companies as
Appropriate remedial     public service organizations
actions, if any are required, operating on sound
will be identified and   commercial principles.
agreed.
- 17-



Key PdiM  ai"
Hierrcly oi Objicfr j                     .~ctr    tMni:toring & Evjuwation ICritical AsumptionSL
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
In both Anhui and
Shandong:
(a) Enhanced wastewater   Timely completion of      Periodic reports from     Efficient operation and
collection systems.       physical works as per     Construction Management  required maintenance of
agreed volumes, and at the  Consultants, and        sewerage networks and
(b) Construction of       requisite level of quality.    semi-annual progress  treatment plants.
treatment plants.                                   reports from each province. Availability of adequate
funding for operations and
maintenance.
(c) Institutional         Development of necessary   Appropriate remedial     Strong senior level interest
development and training.  regulatory, institutional,    actions, if any are required, and support at the levels of
financial, and operating  will be identified and    the provinces,
policies, systems, and    agreed.                   municipalities, and waste
procedures. Provision of on Periodic reports from   water companies in the
the job, on-site, and off site  Institutional Development   outputs of the Institutional
training (including overseas Consultants, and       Development Consultants,
study tours) as per plan.    semi-annual progress   and timely implementation
reports from each province. of the agreed proposals.
Appropriate remedial
actions, if any are required,
will be identified and
agreed.
- 18-



Key PeRformance
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators        Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:     (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
Anhui component:        $152.08 million.         Bank supervision missions  Implementation of the PIP
Municipal wastewater                             and Project Supervision    by the municipalities and
facilities:                                      Reports (PSRs),         the province, with particular
170 km of secondary sewers                      semi-annual progress     reference to the PPP;
453 km of interceptors                          reports from the provinces, counterpart funding; and
10 km of pumping mains                          and other implementing   good construction
27 pumping stations                              agencies, project mid-term   management.
2 treatment plants                              review, and Implementation
(total 80,000 m3/d).                             Completion Report (ICR).
Technical assistance
support for construction
management and
institutional development,
and training.
Shandong component:     $74.81 million.          Bank supervision missions  Implementation of the PIP
Municipal wastewater                             and PSRs, semi-annual    by the municipalities and
facilities:                                      progress reports from the   the province, with particular
29 km of secondary sewers                        provinces, and other    reference to the PPP;
109 km of interceptors                          implementing agencies,    counterpart funding; and
31 km of pumping mains                           project mid-term review,   good construction
7 pumping stations                               and ICR.                management.
3 treatment plants
(total 220,000 m3/d).
Industrial wastewater
treatment plant at Chengwu
Paper Mill (20,000m3/d).
Technical assistance
support for construction
management and
institutional development,
and training.
-19 -



Performance Indicators
1 .          The framework of project performance indicators - comprising output indicators and
impact indicators - was discussed with the two provinces at appraisal, and the draft baseline and milestone
indicators from Shandong Province were reviewed at Negotiations. The framework and the basis for
determining baseline and milestone indicators were again reviewed with Anhui Province at Negotiations.
Both provinces will furnish the final draft of the baseline and annual milestones during the project (as well
as five years after the end of the project) on the agreed framework for Bank review, prior to annexing them
to the supplemental letter which will be signed at the same time as the signing of the legal agreements.
2.           Weights. Based on the investment amounts in the two provinces, and their relative
importance, Anhui Province will have a weight of 67% and Shandong Province, 33%. Within each
province, relative weights have been assigned for the participating municipal WCs and the Chengwu Paper
Mill. The eight municipal WCs have been assigned equal weights of 12.5% within the Anhui component.
In the case of Shandong Province, the three municipal WCs, the Juxian WC, and the Chengwu Paper Mill
have each been assigned equal weights of 20%.
3.           Indicators for WCs. Performance of the municipal WCs will be evaluated against three
broad indicators: physical, with five sub-indicators; institutional, with three sub-indicators; and financial,
with three sub-indicators. Physical indicators will have a weight of 60%, while institutional and financial
indicators will each have a weight of 20%. The sub-indicators in each category, and their respective
weights are as follows:
(a)    Physical Indicators - lengths of (i) combined sewers, (ii) sanitary sewers, and (iii) interceptors;
treatment capacity; and volume of wastewater treated. Each of these five sub-indicators will have equal
weights of 20%, within the weight for physical indicators. The first four are output indicators, whilst the
fifth is an impact indicator.
(b) Institutional Indicators - number of staff; staff training; and impact of institutional development.
Within the weight for institutional indicators, the first two will have a weight of 25% each, while the third
will have a weight of 50%. The first two are output indicators, whilst the third is an impact indicator.
(c) Financial Indicators - net income; debt service coverage; and accounts receivable. All three are
impact indicators. Within the weight for financial indicators, net income will have a weight of 50%, whilst
the other two have weights of 25% each.
4.           Chengwu Paper Mill. Performance of Chengwu Paper Mill will be measured by physical
indicators (with sub-indicators of treatmnent capacity, treated output, and output quality) andfinancial
indicators (quick ratio, current ratio, and debt service coverage ratio), each having a weight of 50%. All
sub-indicators, except treatment capacity, are impact indicators. The physical sub-indicators will have
weights of 20%, 40%, and 40%, within the overall weight for physical indicators, while the corresponding
percentages for the financial sub-indicators will be 25%, 25%, and 50%.
5.           Assessment of performance. Guidelines for scoring performance against forecasts have
been agreed with the two provinces, and are included in the Minutes of Negotiations. A score of 80 or
higher out of 100 would constitute satisfactory performance.
- 20 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
1.    The Huai River Basin lies in the center of China, between the Yangtze and the Yellow Rivers. The
Basin is divided into two major systems: the Huai River System (190,000 km2) originating in the west,
which is about 1,000 km long with 120 tributaries, flows east and east-south through Hongze Lake and
discharges into the Yangtze River. The Yi-Shu-Si River System (80,000 km2) originates in the north,
flows southwest and discharges into the Yellow Sea. The Grand Canal connects the Huai and Yi-Shu-Si
systems as well as the Yangtze and Yellow rivers. Annex 4 contains a description of the Huai River Basin,
an economic overview of Anhui and Shandong provinces, the criteria for city selection, and the basis for
determining the investment program.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$152.08 million
Anhui Province
2.    Wastewater Investments. This component supports investments in wastewater systems in eight
municipalities: Bengbu, Bozhou, Fuyang, Guoyang, Huaibei, Huainan, Luan, and Suzhou. These
investments support the implementation of the first phase of the wastewater Master Plan in each
municipality. Investments include: construction of secondary sewers and house connections; interceptors;
pumping stations; and pumping/transmission mains. The component will also finance the constraction of
wastewater treatment plants (oxidation ditch, with effluent quality of biological oxygen demand {BOD}
and suspended solids below 30 milligrams per liter) in the municipalities of Guoyang and Luan.
Wastewater treatment plants are already under construction in the remaining six municipalities (Bengbu,
100,000 m3/d; Bozhou, 80,000 m31d; Fuyang, 100,000 m3/d; Huaibei, 80,000 m3/d; Huainan, 100,000
m3/d; and Suzhou, 80,000 m3/d) supported by German, Spanish, Netherlands, and Norwegian bi-lateral
agencies and/or by national programs. Completion of these works is planned for 2001 and 2002. Table
below summarizes the wastewater investments supported by this component.
Summary of Anhui Province Wastewater Investments
Municipality Secondary  Interceptors Pumping   Pumping   Treatment
Sewers               Mains      Stations    Plant
KMs       KMs        KMs                   m3/day
Bengbu    28.5       70.4       1.5        5
Bozhou    10.0       58.3       -          4          -
Fuyang    10.0       81.7       3.0        4          -
Guoyang   35.0       36.1       -          1          40,000
Huaibei   28.5       70.4       -          5          -
Huainan   39.0       48.6       2.6        4          -
Luan      5.0        28.3       2.4        3          40,000
Suzhou    22.0       47.6       0.5        3          -
3.    Anhui monitoring center. This component will support strengthening the capacity of the Anhui
Environmental Monitoring Center (AEMC), which is the reference laboratory for environmental monitoring
within the province, by: (a) upgrading equipment in AEMC and municipal laboratories; (b) providing
vehicles for field sampling; and (c) improving technical and managerial skills of staff.
-21 -



4.    Technical assistance and training. The Anhui component includes technical assistance for
institutional development of the Anhui WCs and for construction management, and supports in-country and
selected overseas training of staff of the WCs and other relevant project agencies.
Project Component 2 - US$74.81 million
Shandong Province
5.    Wastewater investments. This component supports investments in wastewater systems in three
municipalities: Feicheng, Heze, and Rizhao; in addition, it supports investments in Juxian in Rizhao
municipality. Investments include: construction of secondary sewers and house connections; interceptors;
pumping stations; pumping/transmission mains; and wastewater treatment plants (oxidation ditch, with
effluent quality of BOD and suspended solids below 30 milligrams per liter). Table below summarizes the
wastewater investments in Shandong under this component.
Summary of Shandong Province Wastewater Investments
Municipality Secondary  Interceptors Pumping   Pumping   Treatment
Sewers               Mains      Stations    Plant
KMs       KMs        KMs                   m3/day
Feicheng   4.5       -          19.5       -          40,000
Heze      21.6       54.6       -          4          80,000
Rizhao    2.0        39.5        11.6      3          100,000
Juxian     1.0        15.0      -          -          -
6.    Chengwu Paper Mill. The Shandong component would support separation of wastewater
generated by the mill. The black liquor treatment section (capacity of 1,200 m3/d) would comprise
evaporation, incineration, and soda ash recovery. The condensate from evaporation, combined with
wastewater from the bleaching and paper processes, would be treated in an activated sludge section
(capacity 20,000 m3/d) with nutrient addition. Generated sludge would be deposited in the Mill's own
sanitary landfill. The project does not include any modification to existing manufacturing processes. The
loan would finance $5 million equivalent of equipment and services, out of a total sub-project cost of $10.9
million equivalent. Civil works and other related costs would be financed by intemal funds and equity
contribution from the Shandong EPB.
7.    Technical assistance and training. The Shandong technical assistance and training component is
similar to the Anhui component (see paragraph 4 above).
- 22 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
Project Component                 Local    Foreign      Total
(USS millic n)
Anhui Component
Sanitary sewers, interceptors                  45.94      38.63      84.57
Pumping stations (including office and stores)  5.47       7.50      12.97
Wastewater treatment plants                    6.68        7.56      14.24
Operational equipment and vehicles             0.51        1.52      2.03
Anhui environmental monitoring center           0.20       0.49      0.69
Services. training and study tours             2.64        1.97      4.61
Anhui Component Sub-Total                        61.44      57.67     119.11
Shandon_  Component
Sanitarv sewers. interceptors                  9.51       7.91       17.42
Pumping stations                                2.19      2.49       4.68
Wastewater treatment niants (incl. offices & stores)    12.48  17.40  29.88
Operational equipment and vehicles              0.21       0.62      0.83
Services, training and study tours              1.82      0.90       2.72
Shandong Component Sub-Total                    26.21       29.32     55.53
Total Baseline Costs   87.65    86.99      174.64
Physical Contingencies                         10.07      10.17      20.24
Price Contingencies                             6.50       6.08      12.58
Total Project Costs a). b)  104.22  103.24     207.46
Interest during construction                     3.68       14.70      18.38
Front-end-fee                                     (.0       1.05       1.05
Total Financing Required   107.90    1,18.99    226.89
a) Includes land acquisition of US$ 3.4 million equivalent
b) Includes taxes and duties of US$ 25.0 million equivalent
c) Final digits may not add due to rounding.
Project Cost by Categories
Category                    Local I   Foreign        Total
(US$ million)
Works                                        85.10       69.00       154.10
Goods                                        10.11       30.96        41.07
Services. training and study tours           5.45         3.28        8.73
Land acquisition and resettlement             3.56        0.00        3.56
Total Project Costs                          104.22      103.24      207.46
Interest during construction                  3.68        14.71)      18.38
Front-end-fee                                 0.0         1.05        1.05
Total Financing Required                     107.90      118.99      226.89
- 23 -



Project Cost by Categories - Anhui component
Category                Local      Foreign      Total
0                                               (US$ million)
Works                                64.20       51.19       115.39
Goods                                3.30        13.87       17.17
Services, training and study tours   3.05        2.35        5.40
Land acquisition and resettlement     1.59        0.00        1.59
Total Project Costs                  72.14       67.41      139.55
Interest during construction          1.90       9.92        11.82
Front-end-fee                        0.00        0.71        0.71
Total Financing Required             74.04       78.04      152.08
Project Cost by Categories - Shandong component
Category               Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ million)
Works                                20.90       17.81       38.71
Goods                                6.81        17.09       23.90
Services, training and study tours   2.40        0.93        3.33
Land acquisition and resettlement     1.97       0.00         1.97
Total Project Costs                  32.08       35.83       67.91
Interest during construction          1.78        4.78       6.56
Front-end-fee                         0.00        0.34       0.34
Total Financing Required             33.86       40.95       74.81
- 24 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
A. Economic Analysis
1.    The River Basin. The Huai River Basin lies across four provinces in the center of China: Henan,
Anhui, Shandong and Jiangsu, covering an area of 270,000 km2 between the Yangtze and Yellow Rivers
and the Yellow Sea. These four provinces have a combined population of about 315 million, of which
approximately 45% are estimated to live in the Huai River catchment. The economic and environmental
impacts of water pollution in the Huai River Basin area are acute. Growing urban population and
industrialization are causing widespread pollution, and environmental problems have become a central
issue in urban centers in the basin as the benefits of the recent economic expansion have been
accompanied by serious environmental degradation. In 1996, the river water was classified as Class V or
worse in 46% of the river water quality monitoring sections. Pollution in the Basin is mainly due to
organic matter and is attributed to untreated industrial and municipal wastewater discharge, and non-point
agricultural sources. The Basin rivers are the source of water supply for several million people. Urban
redevelopment, fueled by increased wealth and industrialization, has increased water demand
substantially, which calls for increased protection of available water.
2.     The 1994 pollution incident in the Huai River Basin caused power station malfunctions,
destruction of fishery resources, and widespread agricultural and industrial damages. Urban water
sources were also affected, resulting in significant shortages for the residents of the downstream cities.
Direct economic damages were estimated at over one billion yuan. This prompted the initiation of a major
initiative, led by the State Council, for the clean up of the river. The national goal calls for construction
of wastewater collection and secondary treatment facilities for major cities within the Basin.
3.     Significant efforts, including the closure of a large ntimber of polluting industries, were made.
However, the achievement of targets set by the State Council is delayed, with provision of municipal
wastewater control facilities in particular lagging far behind the program. A number of cities have
completed or are currently building wastewater treatment facilities with international assistance and
domestic funding (Table 1).
Table 1: Huai River Basin - Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plants
Planned Municipal Wastewater    Status of Municipal WTP in Huai Basin
Tret 't Plants in Huai Basin                 athe end-1999
1997              2000               Under        Recently
Province                                          construction    started     Capacity
Number      Number    Capacity        Number       Number    (m3/day)
(m3/day)
Henan            0          27         1.350.000       9            0           960 000
Anhui           0           18         1.256.000       7            4           860.000
Shandong        0           14          760.000        7            2           610.000
Jangsu           0           14         390.000        6            3           310.000
Total            0          73         3.756.000      29            9          2.740.000
Source: SEPA unpublished material.
4.     Focus of the project. The proposed project has been designed as part of the efforts to meet water
pollution control targets in the Huai Basin. By supplementing ongoing efforts, it will significantly
contribute towards achieving the overall pollution targets for the Basin. The project is concerned with
assisting larger cities in two of the four provinces - Shandong and Anhui. The combined area of the two
- 25 -



provinces within the Huai catchment represents 42% of the total Basin area. In total eight and four urban
centers will be assisted through the project in Anhui and Shandong respectively, and one industrial
enterprise, the Chengwu Paper Mill in Shandong.
Table 2: Area of Project Provinces and Project Area
Province Area in Huai River
Province              Province Area Total            Catchment
(km)                       (km2)
Anhui                               139.427                    66,940
ShandonI                            156J700                    53.088
Total                    1          296.127                    120.028
Source: Provincial Yearbook
Table 3: Total and Project Population in the Provinces
Province             Total Population              Population in Huai Basin
(million in 1998)               (million in 1998)
Total          Urban            Total            Urban
Anhui                 61.3            11.2             34.7             4.6
Shandong              87.8            13.0            32.3              3.1
Total                 149.1           23.6            66.9              7.7
Source: Provincial Yearbook and PMO data
5.    Anhui Province extends over the center of the Huai River Basin. The length of the main stream of
the Huai River in the province is 420 km and the length of the tributaries is 1,580 km. River pollution is
mainly organic, with sections in urban reaches being more polluted than the rural sections, and the
tributaries being more seriously polluted than the main stream.
6.    Anhui is an inland province in eastern China with a population of around 61.5 million, 19% of
which is classified as "non-agricultural". (All data are from the Provincial Statistical Yearbook, 1998,
unless otherwise stated). Overall population growth in the province has been around 1.1% per annum in
the 90s, while urban population growth has increased fairly rapidly (at around 3.7% per annum), indicating
the extent of migration to the cities. There are 22 cities in the province, of which only the capital Hefei has
more than one million urban inhabitants (Hefei municipality has a population of 4.3 million.) Provincial
GDP in 1998 was RMB 280 billion of which 26% was in the primary, 45% in the secondary, and 29% in
the tertiary sectors. Real growth rates in the primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors have averaged 4%,
15%, and 12% respectively over the last 13 years. As the industrial and service sectors are expected to
continue to grow rapidly, urbanization and pressure on urban services are also expected to grow. Urban
disposable incomes have increased by about 17% (rural incomes by 13%) to reach per capita values of
RMB 4,770 in the urban areas and RMB 1,863 in the rural areas. Average household size is 3.83, with
1.85 wage eamers per household. Anhui is ranked fourteenth for GDP, but seventh for population
nationally. Per capita GDP is therefore lower than in other provinces in the top half of the output league.
It is in the top eight provinces in terms of the gross output value of fanning, forestry and fisheries. The
major products of the province are: machine made paper and paperboards, detergents, edible vegetable oil,
canned food, alcoholic beverages, Chinese medicines, refrigerators, washing machines, coal, pig iron, steel,
cement, timber, sulfuric acid and chemical fertilizers.
7.     Shandong Province includes most of the Yi-Shu-Si System of the Huai River Basin, which is
hydrologically connected to the Huai River via the Grand Canal but flows directly to the Yellow Sea.
Pollution is mainly organic with sections in urban areas being more polluted than rural reaches.
- 26 -



8.     Shandong is a coastal province in eastern China, in the northern part of the Huai River Basin, with
a 1998 population of around 88.7 million, 26% of which is classified as non-agricultural. Jinan is the
Provincial capital, with a population in the whole prefecture of 5.5 million. Population growth in the
province has been around 1.1 %, while urban population has increased at around 8.5% per annum,
indicating the extent of migration to the cities. Provincial GDP in 1998 was RMB 720 billion, of which
17% was in the primary, 48% in the secondary, and 35% in the tertiary sector. Real growth rates in the
primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors have averaged 5%, 16%, and 13% respectively over the last 13
years. Incomes have reached per capita values of RMB 5,380 in urban areas and RMB 2,453 in rural
areas. Average household size is 3.14, with 1.98 wage earners per household. Shandong is one of China's
economic powerhouses, with the third highest GDP after Guangdong and Jiangsu Provinces. It is also one
of the most populous provinces. It is China's major producer of machine made paper and paperboard, and
the largest producer of salt, vegetable oil, alcoholic beverages, cement, soda ash, caustic soda and tires.
Other major products of Shandong include cigarettes, crude oil, electricity, pig iron, steel and steel
products, plate glass, sulfuric acid, coal, chemical fertilizers acid, and electric motors.
9.     Criteria for selection of cities. The project cities in the two provinces were selected based on
several criteria, as follows: (i) the proposed investment scheme must be approved within the Ninth Five
Year Plan (1996-2000) and must follow national and provincial environmental protection policies and
regulations; (ii) a city master plan must be available; (iii) the city must show keen interest in participating
in the project and the project must represent a priority investment within the city environmental and capital
development plan; (iv) financially, the selected city must be in good standing and local counterpart funding
must be allocated; (v) in case industrial components are proposed, the city must be willing to guarantee the
industrial borrower; and (vi) the city must subscribe to the principle of cost recovery and institutional
reforms, including agreeing to tariff increases and forming wastewater companies. Among the cities
complying with these conditions, those that had already initiated construction of treatment works, but
experienced a shortage of funds to develop/complete the network were given preference, so that the benefits
of treatrnent (and of existing investments) could be maxirnized within the shortest possible time.
10.    Selected data for the project cities is presented in the two following tables.
Table 4: Anhui - Current and Projected Population in Project Area, Water Demand
and Generated Wastewater
City                        1999                                   2010
Population    Water       Generated    Population    Water     Generated
in Project    Demand    Wastewater   in Project   Demand    Wastewater
Area       Lm/Ld)      (m/d)           Area       (m3/d)       (m3/d)
Huaibei             250.000      90.000       75.000       360.000     150.000     120,000
Ben2bu              550.000     230.000       150.000      655.000     335.000     236.000
Huainan             390.000     190.000       120.000      42Q000    225.000       158.000
Fuyang              430.000      90.0000      0 6000       605.000     210,000      150,000
Bozhou              240.000      50.000       35.000       315.000     110.000      78.000
Suzhou              275.000      97.000       68.000       3           170.000     120,000
Luan                225000      122.000       80.000       400.000     22500        160,000
Guovane             110.000      55,000       33.000       155.000    95.000        66,000
Total              2,470.000    924,000      621.000      3.307.000    1,520,000    1,088.000
Source: Feasibility Study Report.
- 27 -



Table 5: Shandong - Current and Projected Project Population, Water Demand and
Generated Wastewater
1999                                   2010
City                      Water      Generated                    Water      Generated
Population   Demand    Wastewater    Population      Demand    Wastewater
(m /d)      (m3 /dl                     (m3 /d)     (mildL
Feichen2           130.000      62.300       38.200       211.000       104.500      76.200
Heze               300.000      125.000      86.000       410.000       174.000      128.000
Rizhao             280.000     108.000       87.000       365.000       199.000      159.000
Ju County          100.000      60.0         47,000       *200.000      106,000      67.000
Total              810.000     355.300      258.200       1.186.000     583.500     430.200
Source: Feasibility Study Report (* is 2020 data).
B. Project Justification and Benefits
I1.    The main project objective is to contribute to the improvement of water quality in the entire Huai
River Basin. This is to be achieved through: (i) provision of physical infrastructure; and (ii) establishment
of efficient wastewater agencies (by developing autonomous entities, building capacity, improved
cost-recovery, and improved management of the wastewater systems throughout the urban centers). This
objective is in line with the China CAS, which aims at reducing environmental degradation, particularly in
urban centers, and with the sector objective of providing new institutional models for the efficient
organization of urban environmental services.
12.    The physical investments consist of wastewater collection and disposal systems (in all twelve
project locations) through rehabilitation and expansion of existing schemes; and additional treatment of
sewage discharged to the rivers (in five cities, two of which in Anhui). These investments are the first
steps towards long term clean up of the Huai Basin and the project will play a role in reaching the target
of Total Quality Control in the Huai River Basin in the two provinces. However, the project will not be
able in the short term to significantly improve the river water quality and reach the targeted standards by
itself and substantial continuous effort is required to reduce both point and non-point source pollution.
Overall, the project will contribute to about 20% of the entire clean-up program (621,000 m3/day of the
3.7 million m3/day planned to be treated as per Table 1 above). Table 6 shows the pollution (expressed in
BOD and COD) that can be eliminated from the recipient rivers as a result of the project.
13.    There is also a rapidly growing problem with water availability in the river basin and the
reduction of bacteriological pollution will preserve the quality of surface water, which is being utilized
downstream of the project cities. Improvements in water quality will also lead to an improvement in
agricultural yields, since the receiving rivers' waters are used for irrigation.
14.    Benefits from the wastewater schemes are mainly environmental and of a public nature, and it is
difficult to translate them into monetary values, in part because of the difficulties in obtaining reliable data
in the project areas. In a project of this nature, where the proposed interventions represent only a part of
the very substantial investments required to reduce pollution of the river, it would not be appropriate to
claim environmental and health benefits in isolation from the other interventions. The population that is
targeted to benefit from the project is much larger than the residents of the cities and it involves a variety
of downstream residents and economic activities. An economic analysis of the overall pollution reduction
plan for the Huai River has not been undertaken, among other reasons because of the lack of reliable
pollution monitoring data.
- 28 -



Table 6: Water Pollution to be Controlled by the Project
Total Pollution Generated in   Total Pollution Reduced
Province                the City (in 2010)      by the Project and Associated
Investements
BOD ton/day  COD ton/day  BOD ton/day  COD ton/day
Huaibei                        23.0           43.0           14.4          24.0
Bengbu                          60.0          113.0          18.0          30.0
Huainan                         32.0          59.0           18.0          30.0
Fuvaniz                         30.0          56.0           18.0          30.0
Bozhou                          15.0          29.0           14.4          24.0
Suzhou                         24.0           45.0           14.4          24.0
Luan                            32.0          60.0           7.2            12.0
Guovan2                         13.0          25.0           7.2            12.0
Total .                        229.0          430.0         111.6          186.0
Shandoniz
Feicheng                        15.0          34.0           6.8            13.2
Heze                            23.0          64.0           7.7            15.3
Rizhao                          78.0          156.0          26.0           52.0
Ju Countv                      75.0           41.0           6.8            15.2
Total                          191.0         295.0           47.3          95.7
Source: Feasibility Study Report.
15.    The feasibility report has attempted to quantify some of the expected benefits, such as amenity
values, increase of property value in the urban centers where wastewater will be removed from the center
of cities, increased agricultural yields for the downstream users, health benefits, etc. However, the
quantification of these benefits requires broad assumptions and consistent data, neither of which can be
provided for the project cities with a sufficient level of confidence. Based on the above considerations, the
economic viability of the project has been determined through cost-effectiveness considerations, in
particular through detailed least-cost analyses of the project components.
16.    Least-cost solutions. A least cost analysis was undertaken for all project components and
least-cost solutions were selected among the alternative technologies available for all project components.
In particular, the criteria considered in the evaluation and selection of alternatives took into account: (i)
the sewerage system interception ratio, pipe materials and pipeline construction, number of pump stations
and pressure mains; (ii) number of wastewater treatment plants and their site selection; (iii) wastewater
flows and capacity of the treatment plants, the quality of wastewater to be treated and the degree of, and
options for, treatment; (iv) the use of septic tanks; (v) treated effluent standards, and (vi) sludge disposal
considerations. Feasible technical options have then been compared based on their capital and operational
costs, the amount of pollution that can be removed, and the alternative water quality outcomes. Solutions
chosen are based on the present value of the investment for the maximum environmental benefit that can
be obtained, as well as other criteria, such as ease of operation and maintenance, and need to reduce
uncertainty on wastewater flows. In general, it is recognized that basin-wide water quality modeling
efforts are needed to provide better predictive tools to assess the impacts and cost-effectiveness of the
proposed interventions. Details of the analysis for each project component are available in the project
files.
17.    In addition to the benefits to be derived from the physical infrastructure components of the
project, there will be benefits from the 'software' components, as follows:
- 29 -



(a) The establishment of independent enterprises and the introduction of wastewater tariffs on the basis of
the cost recovery principle will contribute to improvement and sustainability of services in the project
cities.
(b) The Anhui Monitoring Center sub-component will improve laboratory skills and capabilities, and
collect and disseminate information on river water quality.
(c) The septic tanks program, which will help determine and assess the number and condition of the
existing septic tanks and initiate a program of regular emptying, cleaning, and monitoring, will contribute
to pollution reduction in the urban sections of rivers and open channels. This program is quite innovative
for China and, if successful, could be used as a model to be followed by other cities and provinces in the
country.
(d) Additionally, worldwide experience in other river basins demonstrates that, when similar approaches
were taken, indirect incentives were immediately created for industries to accelerate the construction and
improve the operation of their own pre-treatment systems so as to be able to connect to and use the public
networks. This is also expected to happen in the Huai Basin.
18.    Chengwu Mill. This component aims at abatement of an important industrial point source
pollution affecting the Xuzhai section of the Dingyu River (which is an irrigation drainage canal), where
the mill currently discharges. On completion of the project, the mill's wastewater effluent will reach the
required Chinese discharge standards and the water quality will be significantly improved, as about 90%
of the pollution (or 2,400 t/y of COD) will be eliminated through the project. The considerations made for
estimating the economic benefits of the quality of the effluents can also be made for this component of the
project.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Main Assumptions:
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
Project Financing Plan
1.    The overall Project financing plan is shown below; detailed information is available in the project
file.
Huai River Pollution Control Project
Financing Plan
Cost           Domestic Foreign  Total Domestic Foreign  Total
US $ million             RMB million          %
Engineering Estimate        104.22   103.24  207.46   865.0    856.9  1.721.9 91.4%
Front End Fee                          1.05    1.05     -        8.7      8.7  0.5%
Interest during Construction  3.68    14.70   18.38    30.6    122.0   152.6  8.1%
Total                       107.90   118.99  226.89   895.6    987.6  1.883.3 100%
Financing
Intemal Cash Generation     22.84      13.491 36.331  189.6  ] 112.0 1 301.6  16.0%
Grant Equity Contribution           _       
Equity Contribution         1.93      -       1.93    16.0      -      16.0  0.8%
State Grant                17.90            17.90   148.6             148.6  7.9%
Urban Maint. Constr. Tax  34.86             34.86   289.4         4          15.4%
Sewerage Construction Fee    5.70            5.70    47.3       -      47.3  2.5%
Subtotal                  60.39       -     60.391 501.3   1   -    501.3 .26.%
Loan
World Bank Loan             -        105.50 105.50    -       875.7   875.7 46.5%
Local Bond                 10.94      -      10.94   90.8              90.8  4.8%
Domestic Bank Loan         13.73      -      13.73   114.0            114.0  6.1%
Subtotal                  24.67      105.50 130.17   204.8    875.7  1.080.5 57.4%
Total                      107.90    118.99 226.89   895.6    987.6  1.883.3  100%
2.    Project costs include construction cost, the front end fee associated with the Bank loan, and interest
during construction. Sources of finance comprise the Bank loan; in the case of municipal wastewater
investments - domestic loans, local bonds, municipal contributions from various sources, state grants and
subsidies, sewerage construction fee, and internal cash generation; and for the Chengwu Paper Mill, a
domestic loan, contributions from the local government and internal cash generation. Overall debt
financing covers 57 % of project cost; internal cash generation and customer contributions, 19 %; and
municipal finance and grants, the remaining 24 %. Although differences exist in the financing
arrangements for each municipality, the overall structure appears reasonable, with a good balance between
the three major sources of finance: customer contributions, including wastewater charges; grant and equity
contribution; and debt.
-31 -



Municipal Finances
3.     On average, only 15% of the total project funds (or 28% of the local counterpart funds) will be
provided through municipal taxes. This is relatively lower than for other recent projects of a similar nature
in China. An analysis of local municipal finances is summarized in the table below. Detailed data for each
project city are available in the project files.
Municipal Contributions By Province
2001  2002   2003   2004   Project
Period
Anhui
Contribution as % of Revenues          0.6%    0.9%   0.8%    0.3%    0.5%
Contribution as % of Investment Capacity  5.4%    8.6%   6.9%    3.0%    4.9%
Shandong
Contribution as % of Revenues          0.7%    3.1%    3.0%    0.2%    1.7%
Contribution as % of Investment Capacity  4.0%   19.8%   17.6%    1.1%   10.5%
Source:
Municipal Finance Bureaus and Mission data.
4.     This analysis indicates that the project components are affordable in all cities. The amount
required for project contributions are low in all cities compared to their municipal revenues (reaching a
maximum of 3% in a municipality in Shandong). When the counterpart funding requirement is compared
to the municipal capacity to mobilize capital investments in urban projects, the incidence of project costs
varies substantially across cities, from as low as 2% in Bengbu (in Anhui Province) to a high of 19% over
the project period in Feicheng (in Shandong Province). This variation is to be expected, considering the
large variation in counterpart funding requirements across cities, and that there are different sources of
funds earmarked for capital investment in the different cities. In general, a large share of these funds
(about 75%) is derived from the urban maintenance construction tax, a reliable and well established source
of funds for investment in Chinese cities.
5.     To secure the timely availability of project counterpart funds, a special fund would be created and
administered by the Municipal Finance Bureau (MFB) to collect the earmarked project counterpart funds.
At the beginning of each year, the WC would submit to the MFB projections of contributions required from
the municipality as counterpart funds. The MFB would then allocate the correct source of funds for
collecting these revenues and in turn collect the funds.
Loan Conditions for WCs
6.     Table below indicates the terms and conditions of the loans to the WCs. The Bank loan agreement
would be with the People's Republic of China, with relevant portions of the loan passed on to the two
provinces, which in turn would enter into on-lending agreements with each of the municipalities. The
municipalities would then on-lend the loan proceeds to the respective WCs. The final on-lending agreement
to the WC would be on the same terms and conditions as the World Bank loan with the provision that a
- 32 -



commitmnent fee equal to the Bank rate would be paid to the Ministry of Finance, even if the Bank waives
this fee. Shandong Province would charge the WCs, through its Provincial Finance Bureau, an additional
on-lending rate of 0.2% to 0.4%. Each WC would carry the foreign exchange risk. The WCs would also
conclude loan agreernents with the respective domestic lenders. An effectiveness condition requires that at
least six of the eight subsidiary loan agreements (SLAs) are executed in Anhui Province, and at least three
of five in Shandong Province before the loan is declared effective. Executing the SLA would be a condition
of disbursement for the individual WCs and the Chengwu Paper Mill.
Te  s and Cl)nditi ns of L ans
Front  Interest Commitment Maturity   Grace Period
End Fee   Rate        Fee        Years       Years
World Bank Loan   1%      6.70%      0.75%         20           5
Natonal Bond              2.55%                    10           4
Local Bank
Anhui Province
Bozhou                    6.00%                    10       4
Fuvana                    6.21%                    8            3
Guovang                   6.21%                    10       4
Luan                      6.50%                    10           4
Suzhou                    6.21%   _                7            6
Shandong Provin ce
Feichen_                  8.40%                    8            3
Heze            ______ J 6.21%   _   =             8_           3
Rizhao                    7.00%                    8            3
Chengwu Paper             6.21%                    5            2
Tariffs
7.    Overall wastewater tariff policy in the two provinces is aimed at initially assisting in the funding of
major sewerage investment programs, and thereafter achieving financial sustainability of the WCs. This is
achieved by provincial regulations that specify for the construction period a tariff level for wastewater
operations (set at about 50% of the water tariff) with a doubling of the tariff once the installations have
been put into service. The objective of financial sustainability was reinforced country wide in September
1999 with the joint promulgation of Circular 1192 by the SDPC, MOC, and SEPA; this circular envisages
that WCs would become financially viable institutions through the implementation of wastewater tariffs
covering the cost of operations and maintenance, and depreciation.
8.    Wastewater fees have been assessed and collected from the following dates: Anhui Province -
Bengbu, May 99; Bozhou, March 00; Fuyang, January 98; Guoyang, July 00; Huaibei, June 98; Huainan,
March 99; Luan, June 00; Suzhou, May 99; and in Shandong Province - Feicheng, July 00; Heze, June 00;
Rizhao, April 99. Through this early assessment and collection of wastewater fees, funds for financing the
project were accumulated and experience gained in assessing, billing, and collecting the wastewater
charges, in particular from water self-extractors.
9.    Existing tariff policy has been appropriately covenanted, and agreement was reached at
Negotiations that the provinces would ensure that the municipalities would set wastewater tariffs at levels
- 33 -



which: (i) result in revenues covering operating and maintenance costs, the greater of depreciation or debt
service, and changes in working capital requirements; and (ii) during the construction period of the
proposed project, meet that part of the project financing requirements not covered through loans and any
other contributions.
10.   The table below summarizes the initial tariffs (note that for simplicity, after 2000 the table shows
tariffs only in years where there is a tariff change), the tariff levels the municipalities agreed to implement
over the construction period to 2004, and the increases required thereafter to meet the financial covenant.
Wastewater Tariffs
Tariff Schedule in RMB/m3
Agreed Tariff Levels up to year 2004 - end of Construction Period
ANHUI
Year
Average Wastewater    2000  2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008
[ariff
Ben2bu                 0.35   _   0.69                                0.73
Bozhou                 0.31   0.34  =   1.02  1.14  1.36  1.59
Luan                   0.35
Huaibei                0.35        0.70                         0.77
Suzhou                 0.35         =    =   0.52  0.86
Fuyang                 0.33  0.43  0.64 1.16  1.36        1.37
Guovane                0.35    _              0.47  1.25  1. 56
Huainan                0.34   _               0.37  0.79
SHANDONG
Feichene               0.21        0.40                         0.57  0.74
Heze                   0.38   =     =           = =    =   =    =   0.71
Rizhao                 0.25      _                        0.37  0.66  0.74
11.   A periodic and comprehensive assessment of future tariff levels would ensure the continuing
financial sustainability of each WC. The assessment would examine all technical, operational and financial
aspects for containing cost, achieving operational efficiency, and ensuring timely collection of wastewater
bills. Agreement was obtained at Negotiations that the WCs would, by October 1 of each year: (i) prepare
an assessment of technical, operational, and financial procedures geared at cost containment, increasing
operating efficiency, and timely bill collection; (ii) review whether the existing tariffs would be sufficient to
meet the tariff covenant in the following year; (iii) outline a program of required tariff actions for review by
the municipal and provincial authorities; (iv) complete the implementation of the findings of the operating
efficiency review under (ii) above by January 1 of the following year; and (v) subsequent to the review
under (iii) above, implement the future tariffs from January 1 of the following year.
Affordability Analysis
12.   A detailed analysis has been conducted to assess the affordability of the suggested wastewater
tariff increases over and beyond the project period. Data collected for average consumption level, incomes,
and affordability have been compared with similar projects in China and with recent analysis performed
nationwide for MOC. The table below presents summary information for the two provinces and for two
- 34 -



income groups, those with average income and those in the lowest 20% of the income distribution. Detailed
city by city data are available in the project files. Prices are assumed to be increasing over time, while
income levels have been kept constant (at 1999 level). As urban income levels have increased substantially
in recent years in China, this provides an additional level of conservatism in the assumptions. It should be
further noted that official data on income tend to underestimate real income levels.
13.   The results show that the percentage of household income which will be spent on water and
wastewater in 2005, the end of the project period, will be around 2% in Anhui and 1% in Shandong (this is
due to lower tariffs for domestic consumers in Shandong). Although this represents an increase from
current levels (about 0.6% of income for the urban resident and 0.84% for the very poor was spent on
water according to Anhui household surveys in 1997), it remains well below what is considered affordable
in China and according to intemational practice. Projections with water consumption increasing twofold by
the year 2005 (keeping other variables constant) indicate that the percentage of income spent on water and
wastewater would increase to 2.5% on average. Affordability would start becoming an issue only if
consumption were to increase three fold.
Affordability Of Wastewater Tariffs
Anhui Province     Shandong Province
Water tariff in 2005 (Y/m3)               0.92                 0.81
Waste Water tariff in 2005 (Y/m3)         0.82                 0.27
Average household
Disposable income (yuan/month)            1.413                1,746
Persons per households                     3.2                  3.4
Water use (m3/month/household)             14.0                 15.4
Water use (lncd)                          143.8                149.0
Water cost (yuan/month)                    13.0                12.3
Wastewater cost (yuan/month)               11.6                 4.1
Water and wastewater as a share of        1.75%               0.98%
income
Low income household
Disposable income (yuan/month)            1.003                1.422
Persons per households                     3.4                  3.8
Water use (m3/month/household)             7.4                  12.1
Water use (1Icd)                          72.4                 104.3
Water cost (yuan/month)                    6.6                  9.7
Wastewater cost (yuan/month)               5.9                  3.2
Water and wastewater as a share of        1.28%               0.94%
income
Notes:
1999 Income levels and 2005 water and wastewater prices
Data from the Cities and Consultant Reports
14.   It should be further noted that the majority of the urban centers in China have started anticipating
problems arising from tariff increases on their poorest residents. Mechanisms in the National Guidelines
for Water (and similar Guidelines being developed for wastewater) provide for additional grants for citizens
- 35 -



on welfare, and special exemptions or cash rebates for the very poor. Similar provisions are expected to be
applied over time in the project cities.
Collection Arrangements
15.   The water supply company bills and collects the wastewater charge against a fee ranging from 1 to
3% of collected wastewater revenues, with temporary fees of 4% and 10% in two cases. The Water
Resources Management Unit (part of the Municipal Construction Commission), the Municipal Engineering
Management Department, or occasionally the water supply company, collects the wastewater charge of
customers with their own water sources. The differences in the source of water and billing arrangements
greatly impact the collection results.
16.   Accounts receivable for wastewater revenues for water supply customers come to about two
months of related charges; however, they average to about five months of related charges for customers
that provide their own water. Agreement was reached at Negotiations that the provinces will ensure that
the WCs would take steps to improve collection so that accounts receivable will not exceed three months of
sale in 2001.
17.   Wastewater tariff receipts are and will continue to be deposited into a separate account with the
municipal finance bureau. At present salaries, wages, and office expenses are covered from this account,
with payments made by the WC under advances from this account. The municipal finance bureau will
control wastewater tariff receipts for some more time through direct deposit by the collecting agencies into
the special project account of the wastewater company. However with increased operational responsibility,
the WC would be given more autonomy and eventually have tariff receipts deposited directly into an
account controlled by them. The feasibility of such a change would be assessed at the mid-term review.
Financial Projections of WCs and Financial Rate of Return
18.   Financial projections up to year 2008 were prepared for each of the WCs and are available on file.
The financial projections indicate that the agreed tariffs up to 2004 are adequate to meet the revenue
covenant, i.e., operating revenues to be adequate to meet operations and maintenance expenses, the greater
of depreciation or debt service coverage, and changes in working capital. However, the tariffs may require
to be carefully reviewed for the outer years, especially in the case of the Shandong WCs, and in Suzhou,
Luan, and Huaibei in Anhui. Special efforts also need to be made to meet the accounts receivable
covenant of 90 days. A detailed review of financial viability of the WCs would need to be carried out at
the time of the mid-term review.
19.   Given the nature of the project investments, i.e., wastewater treatment plants are not financed
under the project in six Anhui municipalities, and revenues in all cases are based purely on water
consumption and not linked to wastewater service, computations of financial rates of return (FRRs) are not
meaningful. FRRs vary significantly, being highest in the six Anhui municipalities where wastewater
treatment plants are being built outside the project. However, it is not intended to increase tariffs further to
improve FRRs, as the WCs then would be left with large cash surpluses.
- 36 -



Chengwu Paper Mill
20.   Financing plan. The table below shows the financing plan for the Chengwu Paper Mill. The
proceeds from the World Bank loan would carry an interest rate of 8.79%, a commitment charge of 0.75%,
and a front end fee of 1%, which would be financed under the loan. The maturity would be 8 years,
including three years of grace. The Chengwu Paper Mill would carry the foreign exchange risk. The
domestic loan from the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) would be at an interest rate of
6.2%, and have a maturity of 5 years including two years of grace.
Chengwu Papermill - Financing Plan
_Million RMB   __%
Project cost                   86,440       95%
Interest and other charges      4,194        5%
during construction
Total                          90,634      100%
Internally generated funds     24,719       27%
Equity contribution            16,000        18%
WB loan                        41,915       46%
Domestic Loan                   8,000        9%
Total                         90,634       100%
21.   Past financial performance. The company's profitability increased significantly over the last
three years by the more or less doubling of its income before taxes in each year since 1997. Although sales
increased in 2000 by about 60%, profitability dropped by about 15%, because of the closure of the wheat
straw processing facility due to serious pollution concerns, and the procurement of pulp from outside. The
company therefore decided to invest in pollution control equipment in order to continue to use wheat straw
for pulping. The company has so far financed its operation and expansions partly through internally
generated funds, and partly through short term and long-term debt.
22.   Future financial performance. The company's future financial performance depends to a large
extent on exogenous factors like the price of pulp. Management will have to concentrate on updating its
marketing strategy in order to be prepared for significant fluctuations in the pulp market. Likewise
management should review its operating efficiency, as the paper market in China could be exposed to
considerable competitive pressures. Financial projections, prepared based on conservative assumptions,
are available in the project file.
23.   In order to ensure financial viability of the Chengwu Paper Mill, agreement was reached at
Negotiations that Shandong Province would ensure that the Chengwu Paper Mill: (i) achieves a quick ratio
of 0.8; (ii) maintains a current ratio of 2; (iii) maintains a debt service coverage of 1.2; and (iv) does not
incur any debt, unless a forecast indicates that it will achieve over the life of the loan a debt service
coverage of at least 1.5. By October 1 each year Chengwu Paper Mill would review and prepare an
appropriate Action Plan of technical, operational, and financial actions to enable it to continue to meet its
financial covenants in the upcoming year. A copy of the Action Plan would be furnished to the municipal
and provincial authorities for their review, and thereafter to the Bank.
- 37 -



24.   The Chengwu Paper Mill would also: (a) repay RMB 19.9 million of short term debt in 2001; and
(b) repay short term advances from employees and shareholders in the amount of RMB 20.2 million in
2002 and of RMB 2 million in 2003. Further, the Mill would also repay: (a) RMB 19.9 million of short
term debt in 2001; and (b) short term advances from employees and shareholders in the amount of
RMB20.2 million in 2002 and of RMB2 million in 2003.
- 38 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
Procurement
Procurement Capacity Assessment
1.    A procurement capacity assessment of the implementing agencies was carried out during the
preparation phase of the project, and the Procurement Capacity Assessment Report of November 2000 is
on file. The Report's findings and recommendations are summarized below.
2.     The NCB procedures for works in Anhui and Shandong provinces have some deviations in the
internal procurement procedures, such as bracketing and a merit point system used in pre-qualification and
bid evaluation. The provincial governments and municipal PIUs are fully committed to strictly comply
with Bank procurement procedures for Bank-financed contracts. In case there are any discrepancies
between local procedures and Bank requirements, Bank policies and guidelines will prevail. Anhui and
Shandong Provinces shall pay particular attention to ensuring that the following procedures are followed:
(a) all invitations to pre-qualify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of national circulation in
China;
(b) such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain pre-qualification
or bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses; and in any event, a minimum of 30 days
shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such
submission;
(c) qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating qualifications shall be specified in
detail in the pre-qualification documents or bidding documents, and all bidders shall be qualified to bid
if they meet the requirements as specified in the pre-qualification and bidding documents;
(d) no additional restriction shall be imposed on bidders from other provinces or municipalities;
(e) all bidders shall be required to provide securities in an amount sufficient to protect the project
municipalities and provinces in case of breach of contract or bidding rules by the contractor or bidder,
and the bidding documents shall specify the required forms and amounts of such securities;
(f) the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such bids;
(g) all bids shall be opened in public; bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening but
shall be afforded an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the
time of bid opening;
(h) no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any standard contract
estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by the project municipalities and provinces;
and
(i) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that is to the bidder who meets the
appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been determined (i) to be
substantially responsive to the bidding documents, and (ii) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not
stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
- 39 -



Procurement Methods
3.    All works and goods for project components financed under the proposed loan would be procured
in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated
January 1995, and revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines).
Consultants would be engaged in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised September 1997
and January 1999.
4.    Bidding documents, bid evaluation formns, and pre-qualification documents for civil works to be
used in the project for international competitive bidding (ICB) and national competitive bidding (NCB)
would be based on the Model Bidding Documents (MBD) agreed between the World Bank and the
Government. The Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) would be used for all procurement categories
for which a corresponding MBD has not been prepared, approved, and agreed. Table A provides summary
information agreed with the Anhui PMO, the Shandong PMO, and the implementing municipalities on the
project elements, their estimated costs, and the methods of procurement for elements financed by the IBRD
loan as well as by other sources.
5.    The General Procurement Notices (GPN) for Anhui and Shandong components were published in
the UN Development Business, No. 537 and No. 543 dated June 30 and September 30, 2000, respectively.
Contracts for goods with estimated value equal or greater than US$200,000 equivalent and invitation of
contractors to pre-qualify for civil works contracts with estimated value equal or greater than US$7 million
equivalent would be advertised as Specific Procurement Notices in UN Development Business or well
known technical magazines and at least one newspaper of national circulation in China. Those contractors
who have expressed interest in bidding in response to the GPN would also be notified. The GPN would be
updated annually for all outstanding procurement.
Procurement Arrangements
6.    The Anhui and Shandong PMOs would manage all procurement for Anhui and Shandong
components on behalf of implementing agencies. For processing international bidding and international
shopping, the Anhui PMO has contracted the International Tendering Company of China Machinery
Import and Export Corporation, and the International Tendering Company of China National Machinery
and Equipment Import and Export Corporation. The Shandong PMO contracted the joint venture of
Shandong Machinery and Equipment Tendering Center with the Intemational Tendering Company of China
Technology Import and Export Corporation. The tendering companies are experienced and competent
procurement agents, familiar with Bank ICB procedures, and their selection has been approved by the
Ministry of Finance.
7.    For processing national bidding and national shopping, the Anhui and the Shandong PMOs have
contracted the Tendering Company of Anhui Provincial Construction Commission and the Shandong
Construction Engineering Center respectively. While the latter has had some exposure to Bank
procurement procedures through previous projects, the Anhui Tendering Company has no experienced staff
with knowledge of Bank procurement regulations. To facilitate preparation of procurement planning and
bidding documents, the Anhui PMO has arranged for training of involved staff in the Tendering Company.
8.    Civil Works ($154.1 million, of which $61.3 million IBRD-financed) would be divided into 37
Bank-financed contract packages with an average size of about US$4.0 million. Works contracts costing
less than $7 million equivalent may be procured through NCB. Wherever feasible, works contracts have
- 40 -



been grouped into packages costing $7 million equivalent or more. Two major civil works packages
(US$15.0 million) would be procured using ICB procedures, while the remaining 35 packages would be
procured using NCB procedures. Interested foreign bidders would be allowed to bid for NCB contracts.
To ensure satisfactory quality of concrete pipes to be installed in sewers, it was agreed that pipe suppliers
within the civil works contract would be pre-qualified. Other works include construction of sewerage
systems using PVC pipes, six medium-size wastewater treatment plants, and minor pumping stations for
which pre-qualification would not be required. The larger part of civil works involves laying of sewers in
streets of eleven cities. To mitigate the environmental impact during construction, and to reduce
disturbance to traffic, works in each city have been divided into several smaller contracts to be implemented
in sequence.
9.    Goods ($41.1 million, of which $38.0 million IBRD-financed) would be divided into 33 contracts.
ICB procedures will be used for procurement of pumps, PVC pipes, specialized trucks, other equipment
and vehicles (US$39.33 million) grouped in contract packages with estimated value equal to or greater than
US$200,000 equivalent. Domestic manufacturers competing under ICB procedures would be eligible for a
margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower. Vacuum trucks, laboratory equipment and various vehicles estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent, would be procured through NCB procedures, up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.15 million. Other items, such as office and laboratory equipment and computers, estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 equivalent per procurement package, with an aggregate amount not exceeding
US$0.39 million equivalent, would be procured through intemational and national shopping procedures.
Intemational shopping would solicit quotations on the basis of written invitation specifying the quantity,
quality, and detailed description of goods and other stated requirements, from at least three qualified
suppliers from at least two different countries. National shopping would solicit quotations from at least
three suppliers in China. All shopping procedures would be carried out in accordance with Articles 3.5 and
3.6 of the Guidelines.
10.   Services ($8.7 million, of which $5.2 million IBRD-financed). Consulting services required by the
Anhui and the Shandong components for construction management, institutional strengthening, and training
(US$4.4 million) would be provided by consulting firms selected on the basis of the quality-cost method.
Services required for construction supervision (US$3.24 million) and for monitoring environmental plans,
resettlement action plans and performance of wastewater treatment plants (US$0.34 million) would be
provided by national specialized institutes selected by each municipality in accordance with Chinese
national regulations, and would be financed locally. Selection of individual consultants for some
monitoring activities ($0.05 million) and of firms for training ($0.75 million) would be carried out mostly
on the basis of Consultants Qualification (CQ), least-cost (LC) and fixed budget (SFB) methods. Besides
the general information in the annually updated GPN, consulting services with estimated value or greater
than US$100,000 would be advertised as Specific Procurement Notice in the UN Development Business
and in national newspapers of wide circulation in China. A copy of respective advertisement would be
provided to those who expressed interest in response to GPN. Standard Request for Proposals (RFP-July
1997, revised in April 1998 and July 1999) would be used in selecting consulting services.
11.   Not-Bank financed. (US$11.35 million) This includes the contracts for provision of electrical
connections between the implementing agencies and the local power companies, and civil works contracts
for the Chengwu Paper Mill, and compensation for land and resettlement.
Procurement Contract Packaging
12.   Table Al indicates numbers and total values of proposed contracts for civil works, goods and
- 41 -



services separately for each project component. Procurement arrangements for consultants are shown in
table A2.
Prior Review Threshold
13.   Thresholds for Bank prior reviews are as follows: (a) ICB civil works contracts valued at more
than $7.0 million equivalent; (b) NCB civil works contracts valued at more than $5.0 million equivalent;
(c) goods contracts valued at more than $200,000 equivalent; (d) consulting firms contracts valued at more
than $100,000 equivalent; (e) individual consultant contracts valued at more than $ 50,000 equivalent; and
(f) the first two NCB contracts for civil works and goods in each of the Anhui and the Shandong
components. With respect to consulting contracts with values above the threshold, the Bank review would
include the shortlist, the proposed RFP, technical and financial evaluations, and the result of negotiations.
For contracts below the threshold, the Bank would be notified of the technical evaluation prior to opening
the financial proposal. All consulting terms of reference for Bank-financed services would be subject to
prior review, regardless of the value of the contract. The thresholds for Bank reviews are summarized in
table "B". Contracts under these thresholds would be subject to post review.
14.   Advance contracting and retroactive financing. Retroactive financing of up to $5.4 million
equivalent would be applied for expenditures made after January 1, 2001 for advanced contracting of eight
civil works contracts of estimated value of RMB61 million (USS7.4 milion) and RMB31 milion (US$3.7
million) respectively in the Anhui and the Shandong project components. Contracts identified under such
retroactive financing are in Bengbu (A/BB/C 1), Fuyang (AIFY/C 1), Bozhou (A/BZ/C3), Luan (A/LU/C2),
Feicheng (S/F/Cl), Rizhao (S/RIC3, S/RIC4), and Chengwu (S/C/GI). Bidding would be carried out in
accordance with Article 1.9 of the Procurement Guidelines.
- 42 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Pro*ect Costs by Procurement Arrangements a)
(In USS million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                 Procurement Method              Total
ICB      NCB       Other    N.B.F.    Cost
1. Civil Works                     15.00     134.89     0.0      4.21     154.10
(9.80)    (51.50)    0.0      (0.0)    (6130)
2. Goods                           39.53      1.15      0.39      0.0      41.07
(36.76)    (1.00)    (0.24)    (0.0)    (38.00
3. Services                         0.0       0.0       5.15      3.58       73
0.0       0.0      (5.15)    (0.0)    (5.15)
4.Land acquisition                  0.0       0.0       0.0       3.56     3.56
0.0       0.0       0.0      (0.0)     f0.0)
TOTAL                              54.5      136.04     5.54     11.35   _207.6
(46.56) 1 (52,50)    (5.392    (0.01LI (104Q45L
a) Figures are total costs including contingencies
1/ Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
2/ Goods under "Other" will be procured through international or national shopping
3/ Services under "Other" will be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants
4/ N.B.F.= Not-Bank Financed; this includes land acquisition, resettlement, power connections,
local supervision of construction and environmental monitoring.
- 43 -



Table Al: Summary of Contract Packaging a)
Contract Packages                 Number   Value    Value
of      RMB      US$
Packages  million   million
A Civil Works
Civil works-Anhui component
a) Supply and installation of sewer pipes, construction of  25  826.40    99.57
pumping stations
b) Supply equipment & construct treatment plant (including  2   124.46    15.00
office)                                     _
c) Anhui monitoring centers (N.B.F.)                   2          0.72     0.09
d! Power connection (N.B.F.)                           8          6.17     0.74
Civil works Anhui sub-total   37    957.74    115.39
Civil works-Shandong component
a) Supply and installation of sewer pipes, construction of  7   197.64    23.81
Dumping stations
b) Construction of treatment plants (including offices)  3       95.55    11.51
c) Construction of treatment plant (Chengwu Paper Mill -  1      19.90     2.40
N.B.F.)
d) Power connection (N.B.F.)                           4        .8.2       0.99
Civil works Shandong sub-total   15    321.2S9    38.71
Civil works total   52    1279.03    154.10
B Goods
Goods-Anhui component
a) SuPYlv of PVC sewer pipes (central procurement)     3         53.70     6.47
b) Supply and installation of pumps and associated equipment    3  64.74   7.80
c) Supply office equipment, furniture, laboratory equipment  17  13.70     1.65
land vehicles =  
d) SuDD1Y vehicles (ietters and AMC - central procurement!  1     7.38     0.89
e) Anhui monitoring center (laboratory equipment)      1          2.991    0.36
Goods Anhui sub-total   25      142.51    17.17
Goods-Shandong component
a) Supply and installation of pumps and associated equipment    1  21.17   2.55
(central procurement)
b) Supply and installation of treatment plant equipment  4      169.07    20.36
c) Supply office equipment and furniture               2          0.74     0.09
d) SupplY vehicles (central orocurement)               1          7.47     0.90
Goods Shandong sub-total    8      198.45    23.90
Goods total   33       340.961   41.07
-44 -



Contract Packages                   Number   Value    Value
of      RMB       US$
Packages  million   million
C Services                              _
Services-Anhui component
a) Institutional support and training (central procurement)  n/a    29.46      3.55
b) Local supervision of construction and monitoring (N.B.F.)    n/a  15.36     1.85
Services Anhui sub-total   46       44.82      5.40
Services-Shandong component
a) Institutional strengthening and training (central     n/a        13.28      1.60
procurement_
b) Local supervision of construction and monitoring (N.B.F.)    n/a  14.35     1.73
Services Shandong sub-total   16       27.63      3.33
Services total   62        72.45      8.73
D Land Acquisition
a) Anhui land acquisition and resettlement               n/a        13.20      1.59
b) Shandong land acquisition and resettlement            n/a        16.35      1.97
Land acquisition total             29.5c      3.
Total Procurement of the Project             147       1721.99    207.46
a) Figures are total costs including contingencies
Table A2: Consultants Selection Arran2ements
(In US$ million equivalent)
Expend.                            Selec tonMethod               _ _          Total
Category     QCBS    QBS         SFB       LCS      CQ      Other  N.B.F.   Cost
Total Firms    4.35      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.75     0.0    3.58      8.68
Firmns      _ _ _ _             _  _
Total          0.0       0.0      0.1      0.1      0.00     0.03     0.0     0.05
Individuals
Grand         4.35       0.0      0.1      0.1      0.75     0.03    3.58     8.73
1TO TA L     __  _ _   __   _   ____          _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _   _  _
QCBS = Quality-Cost based selection; QBS = Quality based selection; SFB  Fixed budget
selection
LCS   = Least-cost selection; CQ = Selection based on consultants qualification;
Other = Selection of individual Consultants; N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed include local
construction supervision and various monitoring activities.
-45 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Expenditure Category Contract Value Threshold    Procurement        Contracts Subject to Prior
(US$)                      Method              Review a)
(US$ million)
Civil works          $ 7 mnillion and above     ICB                 2 contracts ($15.0 million)
Below $ 5 million          NCB                 7 contracts ($34.5 million)
above $5 million, and first
two contracts in each province
with contract value under $ 5
million.
Goods                $ 0.2 million and above    ICB                 15 contracts ($39.3million)
$ 50,000-$200,000          NCB                 c) First two contracts
($0.30 million)
Less than 50,000           International and
National Shopping
Services b)         Firms: $ 0.1 million and more  QCBS            d) 2 contracts ($4.4 million)
Individuals $ 0.05 million  Single selection   None
and above                  (N.B.F.)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review                   $107.7 million (55% of
Bank-financed contracts)
a)    Contracts under these thresholds would be subject to post review.
b)    All consulting terms of reference for Bank-financed services would be subject to prior review
regardless of the value of the contract.
c)    Shandong province is not proposing NCB procedures for goods.
d)    Prior review includes the short list the proposed RFP, technical and financial evaluations and the
result of negotiations. For contracts below the threshold the Bank would be notified of the
technical evaluation prior to opening the financial proposal.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
Frequency of procurement supervision mission proposed: One at project launch and then once every six
months for two years. In addition, to identify problems and to take corrective actions, the Bank would
review the annual procurement report to be submitted by PMOs.
- 46 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Expenditures Category            Amount             Disbursement Percentages
In US$ million
Civil works
Part A of the Project                  50.30                   Average 44%
Part B of the Project                  11.00                   Averaze 28%
Goods and vehicles                                   100% of foreign expenditures,
Part A of the Project                  16.70         100% of local expenditures (ex-
Part B of the Project                  21.30         factory costs), and 65% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
Services                                             100%
Part A of the Project                   3.55
Part B of the Project                   1.60
Front-end-fee                           1.05
TOTAL                                  105.50                       _
(Parts A, B are project components A (Anhui), and B (Shandong)
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Explenditure                          Contracts less than US$
Civil Works                                7.000.000
Goods                                      200.000
Services                                   100,000 for firms
50.000 for individual consultants
Special account:
Name of Special Account            Amount of Initial Allocation
US$ million
Anhui Special Account                                5.00
Shandong Special Account                             3.00
Table D: Loan Disbursement
World Bank Financial Year
(Annually in US$ million)
Bank Loan  2001   2002    2003       2004      2005      2006       Total
Annually     0.0   15.00    30.00    30.00     25.00      5.50      105.50
Cumulative   0.0   15.00    45.00    75.00     100.00    105.50     105.50
- 47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
Pro ~ct ~hedule                                   Planned      .Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16                           20
First Bank mission (identification)             02/10/99                     02/10/99
Appraisal mission departure                     10/20/2000                   10/24/2000
Negotiations                                    01/29/2001                   01/30/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/31/2001
Prepared by:
PMOs of Anhui and Shandong Provinces, with the active involvement of the participating municipal
governments, WCs, and the Chengwu Paper Mill.
Preparation assistance:
A Japanese PHRD Grant (TF025508) of $697,000.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Spe i_lity
Edouard Motte                     Task Team Leader, Senior Sanitary Engineer
Margaret Png                      Senior Legal Counsel
Raja Iyer                         Lead Management Specialist
Elisabetta Capannelli             Senior Sector Economist
Jack Fritz                        Senior Environmental Engineer
Chaohua Zhang                     Social Sector Specialist
Inneke Herawati                   Program Assistant
Jaroslav Kozel                    Consultant Sanitary Engineer
Johann Renkevitz                  Consultant Financial Analyst
Chau-Ching (Tony) Shen            Financial Management Specialist
Chongwu Sun                       Environmental Specialist
Chaogang Wang                     Social Development Specialist
Liu Zhentu                        Procurement Specialist
Youlan Zou                        Resettlement Specialist
Xiaofeng Li                       Team Assistant
-48 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Including electronic files
Name of the Document             Date of the     Prepared by
Document
Anhui Province - Consolidated Project       January     Anhui
Implementation Plan (PIP)                    2001       Department of
Construction
Anhui Province - Project Procurement Plan  November        Anhui PMO
(PPP)                                        2000
Anhui Province business licences (in Chinese)   January 2001  Anhui WCs /
and Model Charter for WC                                   Anhui PMO
Anhui Province Institutional Development  January 2001     Anhui WCs,
Plans - WCs, PMO                                           Anhui PMO
Shandong Province - Draft Consolidated PIP  December    Shandong PMO
2000
Shandong Province - Draft PPP              December    Shandong PMO
2000
Shandong Province - Performance Indicators    January 2001    Shandong WCs,
(draft)                                                  Chengwu Paper
Mill, PMO
Shandong Province - Business Licences (in  December      Shandong WCs,
Chinese) and Charters of WCs, Chengwu        2000        Chengwu Paper
Paper Mill                                                    Mill
Shandong Province - Institutional Development   September -   Shandong WCs,
Plans of WCs, Chengwu Paper Mill, PMO      December    Chengwu Paper
2000      Mill, PMO
Shandong Province - Maintenance Program of   December   Shandong WCs,
combined sewer system and Septic Tanks   2000           PMO
Management Implementation Plan
- 49 -



B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Background Note on Huai River Basin and Project Design
2.    Background Technical Note on Detailed Project Description
3.    Institutional Development Plans
4.    Wastewater Tariff Policies
5.    Background Note on Estimated Project Costs
6.    Background Note on Procurement and Disbursement
7.    Background Note on Financial Summary and Financial Projections
8.    Financial Management System Assessment
9.    Environmental Management and Monitoring Plans
10.   Bank Mission Aides Memoire
- Pre-appraisal: April and July 2000 for Anhui and Shandong, respectively
- Appraisal: October - November 2000.
11.   Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (August 2000).
12.   Outline Annual Safeguard Compliance Report
C. Other
C. Government and Consultants Reports
Name of the Document                   Date of the    Prepared by
Document
Water Pollution Control program and    March 28,      Leading Group for
Ninth Five Year Plan (1996-2000) for the    1996      Huai River Basin
Huai River Basin
Consolidated Environmental Assessment,    August 2000    PMO and Mott
Anhui component a)                                    MacDonald/ERM
Consolidated Resettlement Action Plan,  November      PMO and Mott
Anhui component a)                     2000           MacDonald/ERM
Consolidated Environmental Assessment,    August 2000    PMO and Mott
Shandong component a)                                 MacDonald/ERM
Consolidated Resettlement Action Plan,  November      PMO and Mott
Shandong component a)                  2000           MacDonald/ERM
- 50 -



Huai River Water Pollution Control     July 2000      Mott MacDonald and
Project                                               Environmental
Final Project Report:                                 Research Management
Project Summary
Appendix A, Anhui, Review of Feasibility
Studies
Appendix B, Shandong
Appendix T 1, Sewerage Design
Appendix T2, Treatment Process Design
Appendix T3, Cost Estimates
Appendix T4A, Anhui Financial and
Economic Analysis
Appendix T4B, Shandong Financial and
Economic Analysis
Huai River Water Pollution Control     May-July       Nippon Jogesuido
Project                                2000           Sekkei (NJS)
Assignment Report - Procurement
Huai River Basin,                                     Pacific Consultants
Water Pollution Control Project - Final  August 1999    Intemational
Report:                                               and Danish Hydraulic
Water Quality Management Model                        Institute
Huai River Basin,                      December       Danish Hydraulic
Water Quality Monitoring System Study  2000           Institute (DHI) - Water
Final report                                          and Environment
a) Hard copies available in Infoshop.
*Including electronic files
- 51 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
Jan-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRO         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P058844        2000 3RD HENAN PROV HWY                               150.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     150.00      0.00       0.00
P045910        2000 CH-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                       150.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     150.00      0.00       0.00
P056424       2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                              320.00      0 00                  0.00       0.00    320.00       2.00       0.00
P042109       2000 CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT II                         349.00      0.00                 25.00       0.00     373.34     20.94       0.00
P058843       2000 GUANGXI HWY Project                               200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    200.00      13.00       0.00
P049436       2000 CN-CHONGQING URBAN ENVIRONMENT                    200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    200.00       0.00       0.00
P045264       2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                               93.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00     91.10      19.10       0.00
P064730       2000 Yangtze Dike StrengtheningProject                 210.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     198.90     -11.10      0.00
P056216        1999 LOESS PLATEAU II                                 100.00     50.00                  0.00       0.00     128.39     35.39       0.00
P046051        1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                            20.00     50.00                  0.00       0.00     54.73      27.01       0.00
P049665        1999 ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                              90.00     30.00                  0.00       0.00     85.48       5.13       0.00
P050036       1999 ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                              200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     154.00     19.90       0.00
P051705       1999 FUJIAN II HWY                                     200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     182.28     41.78       0.00
P046829       1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                      100.00      0.00                 35.00       0.00     100.00      0.00       0.00
P046564       1999 WESTERN POVERTY RED                                80.0o     100.00                 0.00       0.00     134.29     17.08       0.00
P051856       1999 ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                                27.40      5.60                  0.00       0.00     27.38      17.63       0.00
P051888        1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                              80.D0     20.00                  0.00       0.00     87.23      23.96       0.00
P057352        1999 CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                          16.00     30.00                  0.00       0.00     43.03       7.27       0.00
P042299       1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                                 10.00     35.00                  0.00       0.00     40.94       -2.27      0.00
P041890        1999 LIAONING URBTRANSP                               150.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     124.37     41.87       0.00
P003653       1999 CONTAINERTRANSPORT                                 71.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     67.15      62.45       0.00
P036953        1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                      10.00     50.00                  0.00       0.00      54.42      5.93       0.00
P041268       1999 NAT.HWY4-HUBEI/HUNAN                              350.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    302.99      31.99       0.00
P060270       1999 ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                                0.00      5.00                  0.00       0.00      4.86       5.34       0.00
P043933        1999 CH-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     150.00      2.00                  0.00       0.00     152.02     11.10       0.00
P063123        1999 YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                              40.00     40.00                  0.00       0.00      18.47     13.39       9.39
P058308        1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                              0.00      5.00                  0.00       0.00      4.74       4.00       0.00
P045788       1998 TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                                230.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     154.21     55.91       0.00
P003619       1998 2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                              123.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     109.84     52.84       0.00
P036949       1998 NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                                   250.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     176.90     26.90       0.00
P046952        1998 FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                             100.00    100.00                  0.00       0.00     163.47      7.99      49.24
P036414        1998 CH-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      72.00     20.00                  0.00       0.00     84.70      26.26       0.00
P035698        1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             300.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    300.00     127.50       0.00
P046563        1998 TARIM BASIN II                                    90.00     60.00                  0.00       0.00     112.78     43.70       0.00
P003614        1998 GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                             200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     142.92     96.66       0.00
P056491        1998 CH-HEBEI EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION                 0.00     28.40                  0.00       0.00      0.13       -1.17      0.00
P003591       1998 STATE FARMS COMMERCI                              150.00      0.00                  0.00      80.91      8.45      25.29      -0.20
P003539        1998 SUST COAST RES DEV                               100.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     74.36      16.88       0.00
P003566        1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                            0.00     85.00                  0.00       0.00     64.88      15.46       0.00
P040185        1998 CH-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                           95.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      58.84     35.14       0.00
P037859        1998 EGY CONSERVATION PRO                               0.00      0.00                 22.00       0.00      13.88     17.17       0.00
P049700        1998 IAIL-2                                           300.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     187.55     37.13       0.00
P003606        1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                               63.00      0.00                 22.00       0.00      58.99      9.39       0.00
P051736        1998 E. CHINAVJIANGSU PWR                             250.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00    206.45     191.91     105.56
P035693        1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                                0.00      0.00                 32.80       0.00      12.46     32.71       0.00
P003643        1997 XINJIANG HWY II                                  300.00      0.00                  0.00      60.00     116.07    136.07       0.00
P034081        1997 XIAOLANGDI MULTI. 11                             430.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     160.28    150.71       0.00
P003650        1997 TUOKETUO POWERIINNER                             400.00      0.00                  0.00     102.50     226.44    290.54      89.07
P003654        1997 HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                             400.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     210.89    110.89       0.00
P038988        1997 HEILONGJIANG ADP                                 120.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      54.63     28.53       0.00
P036952        1997 CN-BASIC ED. iV                                    0.00     85.00                  0.00       0.00       8.60      -6.02      0.00
P003590        1997 QINBAMTS. POVTY RED                               30.00     150.00                 0.00       0.00     104.53     72.30       0.00
P003637        1997 CH-NATIONAL RURAL WATER III                        0.00     70.00                  0.00       0.00      49.91     29.69      23.01
P003635        1997 CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                           10.00     20.00                  0.00       0.DO       3.50       1.64      0.00
- 52 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               and actual
disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD          IDA                   GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P044485       1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                             400.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     356.74     92.44       0.00
P036405       1997 WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                            400.00       0.00                0.00      75.00     136.03     79.03       0.00
P040513       1996 2ND HENAN PROV HWY                              210.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     129.66     92.66       0.00
P003507       1996 ERTAN HYDRO II                                  400.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       7.89     13.53       0.00
P034619       1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                             10.00      20.00                0.00       0.00      15.92     18.12       0.00
P036950       1996 CN-BASIC ED. POOR III                             0.00     100.00                 0.00      0.00       0.93      8.76       0.00
P003569       1996 SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                            260.00       0.00                 0.00     53.34      26.78     80.12       5.12
P003638       1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                             80.00      20.00                0.00       9.40      36.95     28.89       0.00
P0035B9       1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                     0.00     100.00                 0.00      0.00      26.41     36.79       0.00
P003594       1996 GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                              60.00      90.00                0.00       0.00     102.66     45.46       0.00
P003599       1996 CH-YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                    125.00     25.00                 0.00       0.00    122.03     72.28       2.54
P003602       1996 CH-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                       125.00     25.00                0.00      28.32      74.49     97.77      17.23
P003652       1996 2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                            210.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      66.62     56.62       0.00
P003649       1996 SHANXI POVERTYALLEV                               o.00     100.00                0.00       0.00      18.39     10.61       0.00
P003648       1996 CH-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT II                 250.00       0.00                0.00       0.00     114.82    102.72       0.00
P003646       1996 CN-CHONGQING IND POL CT                          170.00      0.00                 0.00     153.99     14.71     154.70     25.70
P003563       1996 ANIMAL FEED                                      150.00      0.00                 0.00      95.00     37.32     132.32     82.32
P037156       1995 CN-IODINE DEFICIENCY DISORDERS CONTROL            7.00      20.00                 0.00       7.00      0.31      9.98       2.98
P003612       1995 XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                               150.00      0.00                0.00       0.00       0.79      0.79       0.00
P003603       1995 CH-ENTERPRISE HOUSING & SOC SEC REF             275.00      75.00                 0.00      20.00    129.58     148.28     25.26
P003600       1995 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                            200.00       0.00                 0.00      3.02      67.26     58.18       0.00
P003598       1995 CH-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                  110.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      34.47     34.17       0.00
P003596       1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                              100.00    110.00                 0.00      0.00       6.65      5.19       0.00
P0035s5       1995 SHENYANG IND. REFORM                            175.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      54.32     49.32       0.00
P003571       1995 RAILWAYS VII                                    400.00       0.00                0.00      29.00     221.69    200.69      84.78
P003493       1995 INLAND WATERWAYS                                210.00       0.00                 0.00      15.00      7.86     22.86       2.46
P003402       1995 NATURE RESERVE MGMT                               0.00       0.00                0.00       0.00       1.76      2.71       0.00
P003634       1995 CN-MATERNAL CHILD HEALT(HLTH6)                    0.00      90.00                 0.00      0.0o       8.38      11.55      0.00
P003647       1995 ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                               0.00      10.00                 0.00      0.00       4.88      5.65       0.00
P003636       1995 CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR& MINORITY AREAII            0.00     100.00                0.00       0.00       0.48      2.56       0.00
P003639       1995 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                             47.50    200.00                 0.00       0.00      46.79     58.98       0.00
P003642       1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                             400.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      87.48     49.93       0.00
P036947       1995 SICHUANTRANSMISSION                             270.00       0.00                0.00      65.00      46.33     111.33     43.18
P036041       1995 FISCAL & TAX REF. &                              25.00      25.00                 0.00       0.00     19.75     22.25       8.31
P003593       1994 SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                0.00    205.00                  0.00       0.00     10.73      5.21       0.00
P003557       1994 FOREST RESOURCE DEV                               0.00     200.00                18.40       0.00     12.93      16.75     -28.72
P003586       1994 CH-SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                  160.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     47.75     47.75       7.65
P003644       1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                           0.00     110.00                0.00       0.00      17.47     14.93       0.00
P003404       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV. CON                              0.00       0.00                10.00      o.0o       0.29      1.05       0.00
P003562       1994 XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE                         460.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      0.22      0.22       0.00
P003502       1994 CN-RURAL HEALTH MANPOWER (HLTH4)                  0.00     110.00                 0.00       0.00      4.73      3.99       0.00
P003540       1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                     0.00     150.00                 0.00      0.00      10.71      -5.24      0.00
P003626       1994 FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                              140.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     32.10      32.10     22.60
P003641       1994 YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                            350.00       0.00                0.00       o.0o      34.00     34.00       0.00
P003609       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION                  255.00       0.00                10.00      0.00      63.66     56.16       0.00
P003622       1994 SHANGHAIMTPII                                   150.00       0.00                0.00       0.00       3.89      3.89       0.00
P003595       1994 RED SOILS II DEVELOP                              0.00     150.00                0.00       0.00      21.00     16.35       8.66
P003623       1993 FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                              o.0o      60.00                0.00       0.00      19.44     13.97      12.61
P003473       1993 CH-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELOPMENT               0.00     110.00                 0.00       0.00     10.32     10.26       5.21
P003627       1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                            325.00    165.00                 0.00       0.00     144.73    145.53      60.53
P003632       1993 CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                           0.00      50.00                0.00       0.00       7.51      8.29       7.97
P003559       1993 AGRIC.SUPPORTSERVI                                0.00     115.00                0.00        0.00      4.08      -1.64      0.00
P003592       1993 REF. INSrL.& PREINV                               0.00      50.00                0.00       0.00       5.41      5.98       0.00
P003597       1993 TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                             100.00    100.00                0.00       0.00       4.79      0.44      -2.00
P003580       1993 CHINA-SO. JIANGSU ENVMT PROTECTION PROJ         250.00       0.00                0.00        0.00      9.75      9.ss       0.00
- 53 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD          IDA                  GEF       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Revd
P003570       1993 RAILWAYVI                                        420.00      0.00                0.00        2.82       35.90    38.72      12.23
P003616       1993 TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                              300.00      0.00                0.00        0.00       49.38    44.38       0.00
P003624       1992 CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES IHLTH5)                    0.00     129.60                0.00        0.00       15.31     11.71     11.67
P003568       1992 CH-TIANJIN URBAN DEV& ENVMT                       0.00     100.00                0.00        0.00        4.65      1.97      2.15
Total:   15489.40    3955.60              175.20      800.30    8912.85    4478.47    696.53
-54 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999/00            Bank of Shanghai                0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84      0.00    0.00
1996               Beijing Hormel                  3.57    0.50    0.00    3.30    3.57    0.50      0.00    3.30
1998/00            CIG Holdings PLC                0.00    3.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               Caltex Ocean                   21.00    0.00    0.00   45.00   21.00    0.00      0.00   45.00
1998               Chengdu Chemical                0.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                   0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36      0.00    0.00
1987/92/94         China Bicycles                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden JV                 0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.86      0.00    0.00
1994               China Walden Mgt                0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01     0.00    0.00
1994               Dalian Glass                    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40      0.00    0.00
1999               Dujiangyan                     25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995               Dupont Suzhou                  18.69    4.15     0.00   31.20   18.69    4.15     0.00   31.20
1994               Dynamic Fund                   0.00    10.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.57      0.00    0.00
2000               Elkem Carbon                    6.30    0.00    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Hansom                          0.00    16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996               Jingyang                       40.00    0.00    0.00   92.31   40.00    0.00      0.00   92.31
1998               Leshan Scana                    6.10    1.35    0.00     0.00    4.50     1.35    0.00    0.00
1996               Nanjing Kumho                   9.74    3.81     0.00   27.68    9.74    3.81     0.00   27.68
1995               Newbridge Inv.                  0.00    2.13     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13     0.00    0.00
1997               Ningbo                          0.00    2.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00
1997               Orient Finance                 13.33    0.00    0.00    16.67   13.33    0.00     0.00   16.67
1997/00            PTP Holdings                    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03      0.00    0.00
1997               PTP Hubei                      12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00      0.00   25.38
1996               Pacific Ports                   0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64      0.00    0.00
1998               Rabobank SlFC                   1.80    0,00    0.00     1.80    1.80    0.00     0.00    1.80
1998               Shanghai Krupp                 30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Shanxi                         19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.30    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP                   3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99      0.00    0.00
1995               Suzhou PVC                     18.33    2.48    0.00    18.50   18.33    2.48     0.00   18.50
1998               WIT                             5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri                3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.20    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993               Yantai Cement                  10.39    1.95    0.00    5.54   10.39    1.95      0.00    5.54
1998               Zhen Jing                       0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       248.43    68.03    0.00   372.18   169.24   60.17    0.00  267.38
- 55 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998              PTP Hubei BLINC                   0.00      0.00      0.00   1500.00
2000               SBCF I                            0.00     0.00  15000.00      0.00
2000               SBLAV                             0.00     0.00  15000.00      0.00
2000               SIGC                              0.00     0.00   6000.00      0.00
2000               Shizuishan Carbn                  0.00     0.00   1700.00      0.00
2000               Wan Jie Hospital              15000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               CIG Zhapu                      6000.00   5000.00     0.00      0.00
2000               CIMIC Tile                    15000.00   5000.00     0.00  15000.00
1998              Chengdu Chemical               7400.00      0.00      0.00   8600.00
1997              Chinefarge                     12800.00     0.00      0.00  20000.00
2000              Jinfeng                         9000.00     0.00      0.00   7300.00
1998              Orient Fin A Inc               3333.33      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     68533.33  10000.00  37700.00  52400.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project
East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Asia &   middlh 
China    Pacific  Incoma        Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (mfilionsJ                      1,253.6     1,837     2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, UlS$)                     780      1,000     1,200
GNP (Atlas method. USS bllhions)                      977.8      1,833     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           1.0       1.2       1.1
Labor force (%)                                         1.0        1.3       1.2      GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most tecant estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povetty lite)     5
Urban population (% of toa Ipopulation)                  31         34        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         70         69        69
Itnfant mortality (per 1,000 live bi.ths)                31         35        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               16         22        15                Access to safe water
Access to Improved water source (1 of population)        83         84        86
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      17         IS        16
Gross primary enrollment (% of schoolegs population)    123        119       114              China
Mate                                                  123        121       114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                123        121       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998     11998
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ billions)                           175.6    342.3      938.3     996.3
Gross domestic investmentGDP                  36.5     36.0       38.8      38.3                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              6.4     12.7       21.9      22.1
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    35.3     35.3       43.2      41.2
Gross national savings/GDP                    35.5     35.4       41.9      39.9
Current account balanoelGDP                    .1.4    -0.9        3.1        1.6     Domestic                     Ivsmn
Interest payments/GDP                          0.0      0.7        0.6       0.6      s    t       i c   +         Investment
Total debt/GOP                                 1.2     13.1       16.5       12.8     Savings          \ 
Total debt service/exports                     0.4      9.6        8.5        5.8
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..        .       14.4         .
Present value of debt/exports                   -.                63.3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                  10.3     10.5      7.8        7,1       7.2                China
GNP per capita                        8.9      9.0      6.7        6.3       6.2               Lower-middle-income rou
Expotts of goods and services        19.6     14.0      7.3       13.9       10.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   31.2     25.0       18.6      17.3    30 r
Industry                                      47.4     43.0       49.3      49.7    20
Manufacturing                               40.2      34.5      37.6       37.8     1_
Services                                      21.4     32.0       32.1      32.9
Private consumption                           49.5     52.7       44.7      45.8             94   95   96   97   s8   99
General government consumption                15.2     12.0       12.1      12.9               -GDI            '  GDP
Imports of goods and services                  7.5     13.5       17.5      '19.
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    6.0      4.4        3.5       2.8    30
Industry                                      11.3     14.2        8.9       8.1
Manufacturing                               10.5      13.6       8.7        7.7    20
Services                                      14.0      9.0        8.3       7.5        /
Private consumption                           10.1      8.7        6.2       8.3
General government consumption                 9.9      9.8        8.4       7.9
Gross domestic investment                     11.0     12.0        7.6       3.8             94   95   De   97  95   99
Imports of goods and services                 20.4     12.2        3.0      20.7                   Exports        Imports
Gross national product                        10.5     10.2        7.8       7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 57 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation [%)
Domestic prices                                                                   30
(% chanige)                                                                       3
Consumer prices                               ..    18.0        -0.8     -1.4    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        3.9      8.8       -2.4     -2.2    1C
Government finance                                                                 O
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       94   95   98   97   98   09
Current revenue                               ..    19.3        13.0     14.2    10
Current budget balance                         ..     2.8        1.4      1.2            -     GOP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/defcit                      -3.4    -0.9        -1.2     -2.1
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ n7rillons)
Total exports (fob)                       13,658   52,551   183,529  194,931      200,000 .
Food                                          ..   6,145    10,619   10,459
Fuel                                         ..   4,321      5,181    4,646     10,00oo
Manufactures                                 ..  37,460   163,157   175,003  .__
Total imports (ci)                             ..  59,140   140,166   165,718
Food                                          ..   4,192     3,793     3,618     6,o   _ 
Fuel and energy                              ..   1,650      6,773     8,912
Capital goods                 ..  18,207    56,768   69,469                         0
93  94  9s  90  97  ss  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 25       38        88        81
Import price index (1995=100)                 24       38        89        84                *Exports      *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    104      100        99        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP 1%)
(US$tS millbons)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                 15,046   57,101   207,586   218,711     4
Imports of goods and services             17,842   60,655   165,899   189,799
Resource balance                          -2.796   -3,554    41,687   28,912
Net income                                  -319      229   -16,645   -17,973                                       Vista
Net current transfers                        626      381      4,278    4,943
Current account balance                    -2,489   -2,944    29,321    15,882
Financing items (net)                      2,489    2,386   -23,073    -7,377
Changes in net reserves                        0      558    -6,248    -8,505    -2
memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        ..       ,,  149,811   158,337
Conversion rate (DEC, locaNUSS)              2.3      4.9        8.3      8.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       2,183   44,932   154,603   127,639
IBRD                                         0    2,330     9,644    10,639
IDA                                          0    2,296     8,693     8,907                       G: 4 A: 10,639
Totaldebtservice                              61    5,650    18,186    13,204                         _      :8,907
IBRD                                         0      223       941     1,161
IDA                                          0       14        97       118                          _275
Composition of net resource flows
Offcial grants                             -30      143        91       201                                   E: 24,238
Official creditors                         199    2,277     2,288     3,913        F: 79,578
Private creditors                        1,580    3,801      1,642    -2,945
Foreign direct investment                   57    2,613    41,118   38,752
Portfolio equity                             0     -180    -3,927    -9,836
World Bank program                                                                 A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Commitments                                  0    1,760      2,636    2,311     B-IDA    D - Other mult9lateral  F - Prvate
Disbursements                                0    1,111     2,086     1,780     C- IMF                      G - Short-taer
Prncipal repayments                          0       62       434       558
Net flows                                    0    1,049      1,632    1,222
Interest payments                            0      175       604       720
Net transfers                                0      874      1,028      502
Development Economics                                                                                              8130100
- 58 -



Additional
Annex 11
Environmental Assessment and Resettlement
Background
I.    Natural characteristics of the Huai River Basin, as well as contamination from municipalities,
industry, and agricultural runoff have combined to produce serious environmental degradation to the point
where much of the basin's waterways are well above the Class V category, basically unsuitable for most
uses. The contributing natural characteristics are seasonal low flows and low river gradients which cause
benthic-accumulated organic pollution during the dry months. The Basin has some 4200 control structures
on 191 tributaries. In addition, some 70 percent of precipitation occurs during the summer months, which
forces regional water managers to close the gates for much of the year to store water for irrigation.
2.    The Basin is heavily populated with approximately 150 million, and contains several medium sized
urban areas, 150 major industrial plants including some 3000 small paper mills, tanneries and breweries.
In 1994, a major pollution event occurred where stored polluted water was released into the basin's
waterways causing the shut down of many water supply systems. Since that time, real time monitoring has
been stepped up, with SEPA establishing some 160 national stations.
3.    The Government of China has conmmitted itself to enforce water pollution control legislation,
including carrying out a program of shutting down small, inefficient industrial plants, and providing capital
for construction of treatment plants. By the end of 1996, some 3000 small plants had been closed, and by
end-2000 all industrial enterprises in the Basin will have to comply with environmental regulations for
effluents. With regard to municipal wastewater, over 70 new municipal treatment plants have been
authorized and partially funded through a large capital program managed by the Ministry of Construction.
The complementary role of the Bank is to finance collection networks and treatment plants in 11
municipalities located in Anhui and Shandong Provinces.
Brief project description
4.    The project consists of sub-components in Anhui and Shandong provinces including twelve
municipal wastewater collection/treatment schemes, a pulp and paper mill pollution control project, and an
institution strengthening program (environmental monitoring center for Anhui Environmental Protection
Bureau).
Status of environmental assessments and resettlement action plans
5.    Two EAs, one for Anhui, and the other for Shandong, have been completed and found to be
satisfactory. The Coal Design Institute, which has a Class A licence, prepared the EA for Anhui. The
Shandong Provincial Scientific Research Institute of Environmental Protection prepared the EA for
Shandong. Intemational Advisory Consultants assisted in this process through a process of review and
comment. Provincial RAPs have been completed and found to conform to Bank requirements.
Salient environmental issues
6.  The most important issues which the EAs addressed are:
- 59 -



(a) Sludge Disposal-The EA documents indicate that sludges coming from the treatment plants will be
deposited in local landfills or used as a soil amendment. Written agreements to this affect have already
been signed by the parties.
(b) Discharge Water Quality - Each of the treatment plants must meet the current national standards -
BOD, 30 mg/L; COD, 60 mg/L; and SS, 30 mg/L. It is fully expected that the proposed oxidation
ditches are able to meet these goals when operated properly.
(c) Industrial Discharges - Since this project will not deal directly with industrial discharges, enterprises
must be encouraged to pre-treat prior to discharging directly into the municipal sewer system and
comply with existing sewer standards for BOD, COD, SS, grease, heavy metals, phenols, toxins, etc.
(see GB 8978-88-Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standards).
Table A: Environmental Impacts and Mitigating Actions
Assessed environmental impact             Proposed mitigating actions
A. During Construction                    A. During Construction
Temporary disruption to communities       Compensation and sound day to day
management
Dust and spoils control                   Water spraying for dust control
Noise
Construction traffic                     Re-routing large vehicles
B. During Plant Operations                B. Durin Plant Oeration
Noise                                     Mufflers on power systems
Odors                                     Good plant operation
Unexpected industrial effluents           Monitoring of plant influents
Sludge management                        Safe disposal at landfills or farms
Monitoring and institutional capacities
7.    An environmental protection management system will be established under the project with the
purpose of implementing existing laws and regulations in each of the municipalities. Responsibility to
carry out environmental management and monitoring activities rest with the contractor during construction
and with the treatment plant operator during plant operations. Informnation gathered will be made available
to local and provincial EPBs and to the public if requested. The salient document in this process will be the
Annual Safeguard Compliance Report which will summarize the previous years environmental and social
indicator data. These key indicators of perfornance include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Annually, basic annual operating summary, which includes such information as flows bypassed and for
what period, energy use, sludge amount and disposal, general safety procedures and safety track
record.
(b) Annually, influent wastewater quality: wastewater flows, BOD, COD, SS, phosphorus, nitrogen and a
suite of heavy metals and total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH).
(c) Annually, sludge quality and disposal: basic heavy metals and other toxics, efficacy and safety of
on-going sludge disposal (if landfilled, various landfill indicators , if used as soil amendment, then tests
for heavy metals in soil and produce)
(d) Annually, groundwater quality of underlying acquifer from two-three wells, E-coli and TPH
(e) Quarterly, discharge quality from the treatment plants: wastewater flows, BOD, COD, SS, phosphorus
and nitrogen.
(f) Quarterly, air pollutants: S02, particulate, CO, and noise at the plant's boundaries.
- 60 -



(g) Quarterly, impact of municipal wastewater on recipient. At an appropriate distance downstream
(actual location, to be determined, would be acceptable to the Bank) BOD, COD, SS, phosphorus,
nitrogen, dissolved oxygen and E-coli count.
Public participation and information disclosure
8.    During the 12-month project preparation period leading up to provincial consolidated EAs and
RAPs, many meetings took place with city PIUs, utility companies, city EPBs and other affected city
organizations to discuss the proposed projects and preparation of the sub-component environmental
assessment reports. These meetings have occurred monthly at a minimum and have resulted in full
collaboration with local officials and full support of the project and the EA process. It is estimated that in
total 30-40 meetings have been held with the public and over 50 meetings have been held with local
governnent officials during the development of the projects, in both provinces. As an example, the tables
below outline the basic participation and disclosure process as applied to Luan in Anhui Province. Each of
the other project cities in both provinces were subject to identical procedures.
Table B: Public Consultation - Luan
Substance         By who & with      When           Where           Bank's
whom                                             Requirements
Interview during    EA team (CRAES); April 24-25,    Qingshuihe     OD 4.30 and
site investigation    PMO; PAP       1999           Juligou Villages  OP 4.01
representative                   (proposed
WWTP site)
Draft EA TOR     EA team; PMO; PAP June 15,1999   Meeting room of
representatives;                  Lu'an
deputy of people's                Construction
congress                          Commission
EA TOR           As above            August         Qingshuihe &    OP 4.01
30,1999       Juligou Villages  Consultation
during ToR
Stage
Distribution of   As above           October 18,    Ditto
questionnaires with                  1999
main points of the
proposed project &
key environmental
issues
Draft EA report    As above          Jan 24, 2000    Meeting room of
Lu'an
Construction
Commission
- 61 -



Table C: Information Disclosure - Luan
Document                Date               Location             Bank's Requirements
Copies of EA TOR        August 30, 1999    Qingshuihe & Juligou  OP 4.01
Villages            OD 4.30
BP 17.5
Copies of questionnaires   September 28-30,   As above
with main points of     1999
proposed project and key
envirotunental issues
copies of draft EA report  Jan 27-28, 2000  As above
Final EA report         March 28, 2000     Luan PMO
Notification of         June 26, 2000      Local newspaper
availability of EA & RAP                   "Luan Evening
reports                                    News"
Land acquisition and resettlement
Anhui Province
9.     Avoiding resettlement and minimizing impact on cropland where possible was a key objective
during project design. As a result, resettlement impacts are not large and project affected people (PAP) are
scattered throughout the project areas. Some 376 are affected by resettlement, which is relatively small
compared to the population of the project areas. Most pipes will be laid under the urban roads and there
are 27 pumping stations that require the acquisition of small parcels of land. WWTPs will require the
acquisition of larger parcels of land; however, they will be located in the less densely populated suburban
areas thus minimizing the number of people affected by resettlement. The largest resettlement impact of
the sub-project areas in is Guoyang where 141 people are affected. The project impact is summarized
below.
10.   Acquisition of land and compensation for resettlement will be paid in a rate much higher than the
terms set forth in the national and local regulations. Compensation for all affected structures would be paid
at the replacement cost. The total resettlement budget of Y12.24 million include the basic cost,
administration fee, design fee, monitoring cost and a contingency which is 10% of the basic cost. The land
compensation rates and the annual budget plan for each city are showed in the following table.
- 62 -



Table D: Impact on Land, Homes and People in Anhui Province
Sub-Projects             Land        House Demolition      People
City                                  Acquisition         (sq.m)          Affected
(mu
Huaibei    Sewer network and 5 pumping       6.3               0               31
stations
Bengbu    Sewer network and 3 pumping        9.2              653              28
____________ stations
Huainan   Sewer network and 4 pumping       14.4               0                7
stations
Fuyang    Sewer network and 4 pumping        2.3              622              21
_____________ stations
Bozhou    Sewer networks and 4 pumping       8.2               0                17
stations
Suzhou    Sewer networks and 3 pumping        0                0                0
stations
Luan      Sewer networks, 3 pumping         89.4              130              131
_________   stations and 1 WWTP
Guoyang   Sewer networks, 1 pumping         95.5               0               141
station and 1 WWTP
Total                                       225.2            1405              376
Table E: Land and Resettlement Compensation in Anhui Province
City    Land Compensation (Y/mu)            Annual Budget Plan (Y)          Total Cost
Cultivated  Non-             2000       2001      2002     2003       (Y)
Cultivated
Huaibei   80,000-                                 340,170  129,195  187,920      657,285
Bengbu   32,800-                        132,199    344,978  193,024              670,272
68,000 
Huainan   40,000      15,000-150,000             1,633,860   70,644  262,044    1,966,548
Fuyang                80,000-100,000              498,671                        498,671
Bozhou   40,000         ,_                        206059                         206059
Suzhou*                                                   _
Luan      50,000-     50,000          5,085,231    194,370  115,884            5,395,485
54 000IIIIII
Guoyang  25,000      20,000-22,000    2,845,781                     ___        2,845,781
Total                                 8,063,211   3,218,108 1508,747 1449,964  12,240031
* Pumping stations in Suzhou will be constructed on the free land owed by the State. No structures and no
people will be affected.
11.    Compensation for land acquisition would be paid to the collectives, which will be responsible for
redistributing land among the affected farmers. Part of compensation for resettlement would be paid to the
affected families who would find their own options for livelihood restoration. Affected houses and
enterprises would be provided with alternative plots of land for relocation. All affected labor would be
re-employed in the same enterprises after reconstruction. A detailed implementation schedule for the
resettlement program has been drawn up. The specific compensation and relocation-related activities,
which need to be completed before construction can commence on a given sub-project, have been clearly
- 63 -



listed in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The entire process of resettlement planning has been
participatory. Census and socioeconomic surveys were conducted with the full participation of affected
persons. The disclosure of the RAP has been announced on the local newspaper in each city as shown in
Tables B and C.
12.   The municipal governments were fully involved in the process of RAP preparation.
Implementation would involve the Project Management Offices from the project entities and the local
governments. Internal and external monitoring system has been set up. The internal monitoring report will
be submitted to the Bank twice a year and the external monitoring report will be prepared by the
independent monitoring unit once a year.
Shandong Province
13.   In Shandong Province the number of people affected are 1055. Primarily, there will be seven
pumping stations that require the acquisition of small parcels of land but the wastewater treatment plants
require somewhat larger parcels, but they are located in primarily rural areas thereby minimizing the
number of people affected. The largest resettlement impact will be in Rizhao where 435 people will lose
access to land on a permanent basis. The table below outlines project impacts on local residents:
Table F: Impact on Land, Homes and People in Shandong Province
City          Sub-project    Land-acquisition, House demolition,   People affected
_______________                 ~~~~mu            m2_          _  _ _ _ _ _  _
Heze             Sewer network,           356               798               141
pumping station,
WWTP
Feicheng         Sewer network,           94                264               146
pumping station,
WWTP
Rizhao           Sewer network,           414               90                690
pumping station,
WWTP
Ju Xian          Sewer network            26                120               78
14.   As in Anhui, in Shandong three types of compensation are considered, temporary land use,
permanent land use and for the taking of houses. Compensation varies widely depending whether
permanent, cultivated, the type of crop and other considerations. A comprehensive schedule of rates has
been established and the reader should refer to the RAPs for complete details. The total budget for
resettlement in Shandong Province is RMB 16,342,400 which includes base costs or actual compensation
as well as various administrative, monitoring and contingency costs.
- 64 -



MAP SECTION






I                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 31224
CHINA
G$NAN                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~HUAI RIVER POLLUTION
CONTROL PROJECT
v    PFzoJEOr AREAS
<~~~~  s-u Ati IYQJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4P4 ~~~~~RIVER RAIN BOUNDARZY
U4-Lti CANALS
'-RIVERS/STREAMS
&  PROV NCE CAPITALS
--PROVINCE BOUNDARIRS
MA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OG
SI~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
HENAN                G-'d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERM4
34--~~~~~~~~~~TCMERBE



