Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4597 CHA
Project Agreement
(Huai River Pollution Control Project)
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ANHUI PROVINCE
and
SHANDONG PROVINCE
Dated September 24, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4597 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and Anhui Province and Shandong Province (
collectively, the Project Provinces and, individually, a Project Province).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to one 
hundred five million five hundred thousand dollars ($105,500,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Project 
Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so defined in the Loan Agreement) 
and the preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, 
(i)
Anhui shall: (A) carry out Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project; and 
(B) cause the Respective Project Participants to carry out Parts 
A.3 and C of the Project and also to carry out Parts A.1 and A.3 
of the Project through the concerned Project Company;
(ii)
Shandong shall: (A) carry out Part B.3 of the Project; and (B) 
cause the Respective Project Participants to carry out Parts B.3 
and C of the Project and to carry out Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3 of 
the Project through the concerned Project Company;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the concerned Project Province shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations or cause 
to be carried out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 
and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of this Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Project Province shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and said Project Province, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
said Project Province on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by said Project 
Page  3
Province of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of said Project Province, as well as the 
Project Participants, responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Each Project Province shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of each Project 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each 
Province thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  
The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
Page  4
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Anhui Province:
Anhui Provincial Finance Bureau
238 Funanxi Road
Hefei, Anhui 230061
People’s Republic of China
Facsimile:
86-551-5100162
For Shandong Province:
Shandong Project Management Office
46 Jingwu Xiaoweisi Road
Jinan 250001
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Facsimile:
4102
86-531-7939754
JINANCHA
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province may be taken or executed by the Governor or Vice-Governor of said Project 
Province, or by such other person or persons as said Governor or Vice-Governor shall 
designate in writing, and said Project Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
ANHUI PROVINCE 
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Authorized Representative
Page  5
SHANDONG PROVINCE
By /s/ Ju Kuilin
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for contracts for works that include the supply of sewer concrete pipes 
shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $7,000,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) contracts for 
goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more 
each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (other than 
goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region or the Macau 
Administrative Region of the Borrower and works carried out by contractors from either 
of said regions).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $7,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $138,000,000 equivalent; and (b) goods estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
Page  6
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $390,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more; (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; 
and (iii) regardless of cost, the first two contracts for goods and the first two 
contracts for works for each Project Province that is procured in accordance with Part 
C.1 of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Parts A.3 and B.3 of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Page  7
Services under Part A.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A.3 and B.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or referred to below.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, each Project Province 
shall:
(a)
continue to maintain a project management office (the Project Management 
Office, also referred to as ‘PMO’), with functions satisfactory to the Bank, staffed 
by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for: the overall 
coordination, management, supervision and quality assurance of Project execution; the 
Page  8
supervision of the procurement of goods and services thereunder; the coordination of 
training activities; the preparation and furnishing to the Bank of reports and other 
information thereon; and annual budget preparation for the Project; and
(b)
ensure that each of the Respective Project Participants shall continue to 
maintain a project office with functions satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by 
qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for: the coordination and 
supervision of the execution of its respective part of the Project and, where 
applicable, its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project; the supervision of 
the procurement of goods and services under its respective part of the Project and, 
where applicable, its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project; and the 
preparation and furnishing to PMO of reports and other information thereon. 
Resettlement Action Plan and Environmental Assessment
2.
Each Project Province: (a) shall take, and shall cause the Respective Project 
Participants and Project Company concerned to take, all measures necessary to ensure 
that the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans 
and the Environmental Assessments; and (b) ensure that any proposed revision of the 
Resettlement Action Plans or the Environmental Assessments shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its prior approval.
Financial Arrangements
3.
Each Project Province shall allocate to each of the Respective Project 
Participants an amount of the Loan under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include, without limitation, the following principal terms:
(a)
The principal amount so made available to each Project Participant shall 
be the amount in Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the 
Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of 
each Project Participant’s respective part of the Project and each Project Company’s 
Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Each Project Province shall recover such principal amount so made 
available and an amount equal to one percent of such principal amount, over a period 
of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years, except that the 
principal amount so made available for purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the 
Project shall be recovered over a period of not less than eight (8) years, inclusive 
of a grace period of three (3) years.
(c)
(i)
Anhui shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate not exceeding the 
rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant 
to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement; and 
(ii)
Shandong shall charge interest rate on such principal amount, 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate not 
exceeding the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the 
Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement plus: (A) two 
tenths of one percent (2/10 of 1%) with respect to the amount of 
the Loan allocated for the carrying out of Parts B.1 and B.3 of 
the Project; and (B) five tenths of one percent (5/10 of 1%) with 
respect to the amount of the Loan allocated for the carrying out 
of Part B.2 of the Project.
(d)
Each Project Province shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
4.
Each Project Province shall cause each  of the Respective Project Participants 
to relend the portions of the proceeds of the Loan, which was allocated to it pursuant 
paragraph 3 of this Schedule for the purposes of carrying out its Project Company’s 
Respective Part of the Project, to its Project Company under a subsidiary loan 
Page  9
agreement to be entered into between said Project Participant and each of its Project 
Company: (a) on the principal terms set forth in Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (b) under conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
5.
(a)
Each Project Province shall ensure that each of the Respective Project 
Participants causes its Project Company to:
(i)
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to which said Project Company is a party, all of the 
obligations of said Project Company therein set forth; 
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable said Project Company to perform such 
obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Each Project Province shall exercise, and shall cause each Respective 
Project Participant to exercise, its rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to 
which it is a party in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Bank, the Project Province concerned and said Project Participant, and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which the Project Province 
or said Project Participant is a party or any provision thereof.
Institutional Development and Training
6.
(a)
Anhui shall carry out, and shall cause each of the Respective Project 
Participants and its Project Company to carry out, Part A.3 of the Project in 
accordance with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank, which said action 
plan may be modified only with the agreement of the Bank.
(b)
Shandong shall carry out, and shall cause each of the Respective Project 
Participants and its Project Company to carry out, Part B.3 of the Project in 
accordance with a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank, which said action 
plan may be modified only with the agreement of the Bank.
Maintenance and Quality Control Plan
7.
Each Project Province shall cause each of the Respective Project Participants 
and its Project Company to: 
(a)
furnish to the Bank by October 31 in each year, beginning on October 31, 
2001, an action plan acceptable to the Bank for activities to be carried out the 
following calendar year to improve the maintenance of drainage and sewerage 
facilities, to desludge septic tanks, and to improve the quality of industrial 
wastewater discharges in public sewers; and
(b)
begin implementation of said plan by January 1 of the following year, 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
8.
Each Project Province shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as completed, the 
annual reports on water quality monitoring in the Huai River Basin published by 
agencies that carry out such monitoring in each Project Province. 
Funding by Project Participants
9.
Each Project Province shall cause each of the Respective Project Participants to 
maintain its practice of: (a) carrying out an annual forecast of funds needed to 
implement its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project; (b) updating such 
Page  10
forecast on a quarterly basis if there is a shortfall in funds needed; and (c) timely 
allocating and depositing the requisite amount of monies so forecasted and available 
into a special account for said Project Company.
Monitoring and Reporting
10.
Each Project Province shall: 
(a)
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project, including the Resettlement Action Plans and the 
Environmental Assessments, as well as the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(b)
Prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank semi-annual reports by January 31 and July 31 in each year, beginning on 
January 31, 2002.  Said semi-annual reports shall integrate the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof, 
cover the physical and financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the preceding calendar semester and set out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date. The report due on January 31, 2003, 
shall summarize progress achieved during the period, June 1, 2001, through December 
31, 2002. 
(c)
Prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank annual reports by March 31 in each year, beginning on January 31, 2002, on 
the status of implementation of the Anhui EA and Anhui RAP for Anhui and the status of 
implementation of the Shandong EA and Shandong RAP for Shandong. 
(d)
After furnishing each report referred to in subparagraphs (b) and (c) 
hereof, review said report with the Bank, and promptly take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project (including, when applicable, the 
carrying out of the Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Assessments) and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.  The report due on 
January 31, 2003, that is prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) hereof shall be 
reviewed with the Bank by March 31, 2003, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
For the purposes of paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the terms of 
availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth in Section I of this 
Schedule 3 and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be entered into on the conditions 
set forth in Section II of this Schedule 3.
Section I.
Terms of Availability
1.
The principal amount of each subsidiary loan made by a Project Participant to 
its Project Company, shall be the amount equivalent in Dollars (on the respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies 
so withdrawn on account of said Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project.
2.
Each Project Company shall repay such principal amount and an amount equal to 
one percent of such principal amount over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of 
a grace period of five (5) years, except that Chengwu PM shall repay the principal 
amount and an amount equal to one percent of such principal amount so made available 
to it for purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project over a period of not less 
than eight (8) years, inclusive of a grace period of three (3) years.
3.
Each Project Company implementing the Project in Anhui shall pay interest on the 
principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not 
Page  11
less than the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to 
Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement. 
4.
Each Project Company implementing the Project in Shandong shall pay interest on 
the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not 
exceeding the rate of interest set forth in paragraph 3(c)(ii)(A) of Schedule 2 to 
this Project Agreement plus two tenths of one percent (2/10 of 1%), except for Chengwu 
PM which shall pay interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at a rate not exceeding the rate of interest set forth in paragraph 
3(c)(ii)(B) of Schedule 2 to this Project Agreement plus five tenths of one percent 
(5/10 of 1%).
5.
Each Project Participant shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section II.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal conditions.
1.
Each Project Company shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out the Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with:
(i)
appropriate engineering, financial, public utility (except for 
Chengwu PM)  and technical practices; and
(ii)
appropriate health, safety and environmental standards acceptable 
to the Bank, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and 
(b)
without limitation on the foregoing take all measures necessary to ensure 
that the Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project shall be implemented in 
accordance with its Respective RAP and its Respective EA.
2.
Each Project Company shall undertake to procure the goods and services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods and services exclusively in the carrying 
out of its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project. 
3.
Each Project Company shall undertake to enable the Bank, and the Project 
Participant concerned to inspect such goods and the sites and works included in its 
Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents.
4.
Each Project Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance 
to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Project 
Company to replace or repair such goods.
5.
Each Project Company shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition;
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
Page  12
acceptable to the Bank and the Project Participant concerned; 
(c)
furnish to the Bank and the Project Province and Project Participant 
concerned, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the 
end of each such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for 
such year as so audited; and 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail 
as the Bank, said Project Province and said Project Participant 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Bank and the Project Province and the Project 
Participant concerned all such other information concerning said records, accounts and 
financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank, said Project 
Province, and said Project Participant shall reasonably request.
6.
Each Project Company, except Chengwu PM, shall for each fiscal year, as of 2001, 
undertake:
(a)
to produce total revenues (including, without limitation, the adjustments 
of the structure or levels of wastewater tariffs), equivalent to not less than the sum 
of:
(i)
its total operating expenses; 
(ii)
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds the 
provision for depreciation; and 
(iii)
working capital other than minimum cash;
(b)
to review, before September 30 in each year and on the basis of forecasts 
prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, whether it would meet the requirements 
set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion; 
and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years covered by such review, promptly 
to prepare an action plan acceptable to the Project Participant concerned and the Bank 
(including, without limitation, making adjustments to the structure or levels of its 
tariffs) in order to meet such requirements and promptly take all necessary measures 
to implement said plan before January 1 of the following calendar year.
7.
Each Project Company, except Chengwu PM, shall undertake such measures as shall 
be necessary to ensure that the accounts receivable resulting from its provision of 
wastewater services to customers do not exceed an amount equal to the annual average 
of service fees billed for three (3) months of such services by December 31, 2001, and 
said amount shall decline progressively thereafter to an amount equal to the annual 
average of service fees billed for no more than 1.75 months of such service by 
December 31, 2005.
8.
Chengwu PM shall undertake to establish by July 1, 2001, a unit with functions 
satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be 
responsible for: the coordination and supervision of the execution of Part B.2 of the 
Project; the supervision of the procurement of goods and services thereunder; and the 
preparation and furnishing to Shandong’s PMO of reports and other information thereon. 
9.
(a)
Chengwu PM shall undertake: (i) to maintain a ratio of current assets, 
determined in accordance with paragraph 11(i) of this Schedule 3, to current 
liabilities of not less than 2.0; and (ii) to maintain a ratio of current assets, 
determined in accordance with paragraph 11(j) of this Schedule 3, to current 
Page  13
liabilities of not less than 0.8.
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, Chengwu PM shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by Chengwu PM and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether 
it would meet the requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that Chengwu PM would not meet the requirements 
set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for Chengwu PM’s fiscal years covered by such 
review, Chengwu PM shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
10.
Chengwu PM shall undertake to maintain a debt service ratio coverage of at least 
1.2 times and shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast shows that the 
debt service ratio coverage in all succeeding years is at least 1.5 times.
11.
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "total revenues" means the terms of total operating revenues and 
net non-operating income.
(b)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources 
related to operations.
(c)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, provision for depreciation, but excluding interest and other charges on 
debt.
(d)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(e)
The term "debt " means any indebtedness of a Project Company maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred. Debt 
shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or agreement or other 
instrument providing for such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered 
into.
(f)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by a Project 
Company not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Bank and said Project Company accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Bank has notified said Project Company of its acceptability, provided that 
no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected 
in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of said Project Company.
(g)
The term "working capital other than minimum cash" means the difference 
between current assets, excluding cash in an amount equivalent to one month’s cash 
operating expenses, and current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(h)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between: (i) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; and (ii) expenses, 
including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues 
in subparagraph (h)(i) hereof.
(i)
With respect to paragraph 9(a)(i) of this Schedule 3, the term "current 
assets" means cash, all assets which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including account receivable, marketable 
securities, inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating 
Page  14
expenses within the next fiscal year.
(j)
With respect to paragraph 9(a)(ii) of this Schedule 3, the term "current 
assets" means cash, all assets which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including account receivable, marketable 
securities and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the 
next fiscal year.
(k)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will become 
due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
12.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
13.
Each Project Participant shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right 
of its Project Company to the use of the proceeds of the loan made available under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with said Project Company upon failure by such Project 
Company to perform its obligations under the agreement.
