                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR0000609




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD 4597-CHA)




                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$105.5 MILLION

                                         TO

                           THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR A

                      HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT




                                   January 06, 2009




Urban Development Sector Unit
China Country Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 2008)


                           Currency Unit = Yuan

                               Yuan 1.00 = US$0.13

                                US$1.00 = Yuan 6.84


                                 FISCAL YEAR

                             January 1 - December 31



                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AP         Anhui Province
APPMO      Anhui Province Project Management Office
BOD        Biological Oxygen Demand
COD        Chemical Oxygen Demand
EA         Environmental Assessment
EMP        Environmental Management Plan
EPB        Environmental Protection Bureau
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GIS        Geographic Information System
HR         Huai River
HRB        Huai River Basin
HRPCP      Huai River Pollution Control Project
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion & Results (Report)
MEP        Ministry of Environmental Protection
MOF        Ministry of Finance
NDRC       National Reform & Development Commission
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PIU        Project Implementing Unit
QEA        Quality at Entry
QSA        Quality of Supervision Assessment
RAP        Resettlement Action Plan
SEPA       State Environmental Protection Administration
SP         Shandong Province
SPPMO      Shandong Province Project Management Office
SS         Suspended Solids
WC         Wastewater Company
WWTP       Wastewater Treatment Plant


                      Vice President:     James W. Adams
                    Country Director:     David Dollar
                     Sector Manager:      Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
      Project Team/ICR Team Leader:       Shenhua Wang

                                         CHINA

                          Huai River Pollution Control Project




                                       CONTENTS



A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Profile


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design                     1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes                      3
3. Assessment of Outcomes                                                 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                             11
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                           11
6. Lessons Learned                                                       14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners  15


Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators                                      16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                     26
Annex 3. Outputs by Component                                            28
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis                                 33
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes   44
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR          46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                    57


MAP: IBRD 31224R

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Huai River Pollution
Country:                China                 Project Name:
                                                                    Control Project
Project ID:             P047345               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-45970
ICR Date:               01/23/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    THE PEOPLE'S
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:             REPUBLIC OF
                                                                    CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 105.5M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 105.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Anhui Project Management Office
Shandong Provincial Project Management Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/10/1999    Effectiveness:                          02/20/2002
Appraisal:             10/24/2000    Restructuring(s):                       06/14/2005
Approval:              03/22/2001    Mid-term Review:                        10/19/2004
                                     Closing:             06/30/2005         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sewerage                                                      100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health                 Primary         Primary
Water resource management                                     Primary         Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:          James W. Adams                    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:         David R. Dollar                  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:          Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez          Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:      Shenhua Wang                     Edouard Henri Motte
ICR Team Leader:          Shenhua Wang
ICR Primary Author:      Chandra Godavitarne



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective was: "The project will support Government efforts to
upgrade water quality in the Huai River Basin (one of the most polluted river systems in
China), in particular in the provinces of Anhui and Shandong. This objective would be
achieved through improved collection and treatment of wasterwater in a number of
municipalities in the two provinces in a sustainable manner".

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objective was not altered during the project implementation.




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target     Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value        Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
                                             approval          Target      Completion or
                                            documents)         Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Physical KPI: Anhui Component:
                - Combined Length of Inceptors, Secondary Sewers and Pumping Mains
Value
quantitative or n/a                     629 km             582 km        541 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                06/30/2005         06/30/2008    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Physical KPI: Anhui Component:
                - Number of Pumping Stations
Value
quantitative or n/a                     27                 25            24
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                06/30/2005         06/30/2008    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Physical KPI: Anhui Component:
                - Treatment Plants
Value
quantitative or 0                       2 (total 80,000    4 (total      3 (total 130,000

Qualitative)                            m3/d)              155,000 m3/d) m3/d)

Date achieved 04/01/2001                06/30/2005         06/30/2008    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Physical KPI: Shandong Component:
                - Combined Length of Inceptors, Secondary Sewers and Pumping Mains
Value
quantitative or n/a                     169 km             365 km        363 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                06/30/2005         06/30/2007    06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   Physical KPI: Shandong Component:
                - Number of Pumping Stations
Value
quantitative or 0                       7                  6            6
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                06/30/2005         06/30/2007    06/30/2007



                                             iii

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 6 :   Physical KPI: Shandong Component:
                - Treatment Plants
Value
quantitative or 0                            3 (total 220,000    3 (total        3 (total 220,000

Qualitative)                                m3/d)                220,000 m3/d) m3/d)

Date achieved 04/01/2001                    06/30/2005           06/30/2007      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :   Industrial Wastewater Treatment Plant at Chengwu Paper Mill
                - WWTP capacity utilization
Value
quantitative or 0                            20,000 m3/d        20,000 m3/d     20,000 m3/d
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                    06/30/2005           06/30/2007      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 8 :   Institutional KPI: Anhui Component
                - Regulatory development
                                                                 Each

Value                                       Enhance              municipality    Each municipality
quantitative or n/a                         regulatory policies enforced         enforced higher
Qualitative)                                                     higher
                                                                 wastewater      wastewater tariffs

                                                                 tariffs
Date achieved 04/01/2001                    06/30/2005           06/30/2008      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 9 :   Institutional KPI: Anhui Component
                -Number of staff
Value
quantitative or 135                         As per               423 adequate 423 adequate staff

Qualitative)                                requirements         staff available available

Date achieved 04/01/2001                    06/30/2005           06/30/2008      06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 10 :  Institutional KPI: Anhui Component
                - Staff training (person . day)

Value                                                            4,800

quantitative or 85                          All staff to be well person/days of 4,800 person/days

Qualitative)                                trained              staff           of staff training
                                                                 training



                                                 iv

Date achieved 04/01/2001                   06/30/2005          06/30/2008     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 11 :  Institutional KPI: Anhui Component
                - Institutional development
Value
quantitative or n/a                        8 WCs established8 WCs             8 WCs
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                   06/30/2005          06/30/2008     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 12 :  Institutional KPI: Anhui Component
                -TA (contracts)
Value
quantitative or 0                          2                  3              3
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                   06/30/2005          06/30/2008     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 13 :  Institutional KPI: Shandong Component
                - Regulatory development
                                                               The province

Value                                                          adopted a      The province

quantitative or n/a                        Enhance             major          adopted a major

Qualitative)                               regulatory policies province-wide province-wide
                                                               increase in    increase in tariffs
                                                               tariffs
Date achieved 04/01/2001                   06/30/2005          06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 14 :  Institutional KPI: Shandong Component
                -Number of staff

Value                                                          Adequate staff Adequate staff

quantitative or n/a                        As per              recruited and recruited and

Qualitative)                               requirements        appointed and appointed and
                                                               trained        trained
Date achieved 04/01/2001                   06/30/2005          06/30/2007     06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 15 :  Institutional KPI: Shandong Component
                -Staff training (person day)
Value           n/a                        All staff to be     Adequate staff Adequate staff
quantitative or                            well trained        recruited and recruited and



                                                v

Qualitative)                                                   appointed and appointed and
                                                               trained          trained
Date achieved 04/01/2001                  06/30/2005           06/30/2007       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 16 :  Institutional KPI: Shandong Component
                -Institutional development
Value
quantitative or o                          4 WCs established4 WCs               4 WCs
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                  06/30/2005           06/30/2007       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 17 :  Institutional KPI: Shandong Component
                -TA (contracts)
Value
quantitative or 0                          2                   2                2
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2001                  06/30/2005           06/30/2007       06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from                           Achieved at
                                               approval             Revised        Completion or
                                              documents)       Target Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Intermediate indicators are available in project files for each of the four PDO
                indicators.
                These are available in the
Value           project files for each of
(quantitative   the twelve participating  Available in

or Qualitative) municipalities/wastewater project files

                companies.
Date achieved 04/01/2001                  06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               vi

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                        IP                 Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
 1    05/30/2001        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.00
 2    07/30/2001        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.00
 3    12/03/2001        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        0.00
 4    06/13/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        2.06
 5    09/04/2002        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        3.46
 6    04/07/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                        7.19
 7    10/27/2003        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       11.37
 8    06/23/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       21.50
 9    12/21/2004        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       30.90
10    06/17/2005        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       37.96
11    05/25/2006        Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                55.42
12    06/29/2007        Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                85.73
13    06/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory      Satisfactory                       98.88



H. Restructuring (if any)

                           ISR Ratings at    Amount

Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed at      Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                   Restructuring
              PDO Change                                        Key Changes Made
                             DO      IP      in USD
                                             millions
                                                         The project was restructured in
                                                         December 2005 to: (i) utilize
                                                         loan savings amounting to
                                                         US$21.88 million (31%) and
                                                         US$11.32 million (33%) that
                                                         arose in the Anhui and
                                                         Shandong components,
                                                         respectively, due to over-
                                                         estimation of costs, financing
  06/14/2005                  S       S        37.96     some contracts using own
                                                         funds or national bonds, and
                                                         improved procurement
                                                         efficiency; (ii) finance
                                                         additional collection networks
                                                         and wastewater treatment
                                                         plants in the two Provinces; and
                                                         (iii) increase the civil works
                                                         disbursement percentage to an
                                                         average of 75 %.




                                         vii

I. Disbursement Profile




                           viii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Huai River Basin (HRB) is located in the provinces of Henan, Anhui, Shandong and
Jiangsu, and covers an area of 270,000 km2 between the Yangtze River and Yellow River. Of
the 315 million people who live in the four provinces about 45% reside in the Huai River
catchment region. The Huai River (HR) was one of the most polluted rivers in China with water
quality classified as Class V4 or worse. Pollution has been mainly due to untreated industrial and
domestic wastewater discharges, and non-point agricultural source pollution. The environmental
impacts of water pollution in the HRB were extremely acute.

Improving the water quality in the HRB was a key program in the 9th Five Year Plans (1996 ­
2000) of the four provinces. Starting in the late 1990s, significant efforts were made by cities in
the HRB to construct wastewater treatment plants and control pollution from industries.
However, municipal wastewater control, using bi-lateral funds, focused more on the
construction of treatment plants, with little corresponding effort on the sewage collection. This
would have led to non-operational wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) with little or no flows.
The overall program therefore could not achieve the objectives set for 2000 without a massive
program for construction of collection sewers.

To correct this the Huai River Pollution Control Project (HRPCP) focused on supporting the
efforts of the governments and cities to meet the pollution control targets in the HRB by
financing the construction of sewers, municipal wastewater treatment plants (WWTP), major
industrial control facilities, and as well as institutional strengthening. This was carried out in 12
cities in the HRB within Anhui and Shandong Provinces. The project addressed the key
environmental issues in accordance with national and provincial priorities, as well as the Bank's
country strategy.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The original project development objective was: "The project will support Government efforts
to upgrade water quality in the Huai River Basin (one of the most polluted river systems in
China), in particular in the provinces of Anhui and Shandong. This objective would be achieved
through improved collection and treatment of wasterwater in a number of municipalities in the
two provinces in a sustainable manner."

Achievement of the project development objective was to be measured through performance
indicators set in the PAD (for details please refer to Section F and Annex 1).

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The PDO remained unchanged during the project implementation. Several of the Key
Performance Indicator values were adjusted when the project was restructured at mid-term, in
December 2005. The total length of interceptors, secondary sewers and pumping mains was
changed from 629 km to 582 km in Anhui, and from 169 km to 365 km in Shandong. Treatment


4Surface water quality in China is classified under the Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water. Class V
is one of the poorest grades, described as `suitable for agricultural use and general irrigation/landscaping'.



                                                           1

capacity was increased with the inclusion of two additional WWTPs in Anhui having a total
capacity of 75,000 m3/d.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)

Original beneficiaries. The principal project beneficiaries were 2.5 million people in Anhui
Province (AP) and 800,000 people in Shandong Province (SP), in the participating
municipalities. A much larger number of downstream riparian populations would also benefit
from improved water quality in the HRB.

Revised beneficiaries. About 400,000 additional people (total revised project beneficiaries: 3.7
million people) benefited by the expansion of wastewater service coverage that resulted from the
construction of additional sewer mains using loan savings in Anhui and Shandong Provinces.

1.5 Original Components

Among the cities that met the selection criteria, preference was given to those that had already
commenced construction of WWTPs, but did not have adequate funds to construct sewers. The
project goal was to effectively utilize the investments by constructing systems to collect and
convey sewage to WWTPs. Eight cities in Anhui Province, and four cities and one paper mill in
Shandong Province were selected for project intervention, as summarized in the component
description below.

Component 1: Anhui Province (US$ 152.08 million)

The component consisted of:
(a) wastewater collection and treatment: construction of 633 km of interceptors, secondary
sewers, house connections, pumping mains; 29 pumping stations in the eight municipalities of
Bengbu, Bozhou, Fuyang, Guoyang, Huaibei, Huainan, Lu'an and Suzhou, and two wastewater
treatment plants, of 40,000 m3/d capacity each, in Guoyang and Lu'an5;
(b) environmental monitoring: strengthening the environmental monitoring capacity through
equipment for the monitoring center and laboratories, sampling vehicles and skills enhancement
for technical and managerial staff; and
(c) institutional development and capacity building: institutional development for wastewater
companies, construction management and training.

Component 2: Shandong Province (US$ 74.81 million)

The component consisted of:
(a) wastewater collection and treatment: construction of 169 km of interceptors, secondary
sewers, house connections, and seven pumping stations in the three municipalities of Feicheng,
Heze and Rizhao and the county town of Juxian, including treatment plants in Feicheng (40,000
m3/d), Heze (80,000 m3/d), and Rizhao (100,000 m3/d) including a 3 km sea outfall;
(b) industrial pollution control: construction of a black liquor treatment plant (1,200 m3/d) and a
wastewater treatment plant (20,000 m3/d) at the Chengwu Paper Mill; and
(c) institutional development and capacity building: institutional development for wastewater
companies, construction management and training.


5At the time of project approval, wastewater treatment plants were under construction in the six other
municipalities, supported by bi-lateral financing and/or national programs.


                                                          2

1.6 Revised Components

Following the mid-term review, the project was restructured in December 2005 to include
utilizing loan savings amounting to US$ 21.88 million and US$ 11.32 million that arose in the
Anhui and Shandong components, respectively, to finance additional sewers and wastewater
treatment plants in the two provinces. Project components were also revised to cancel some
sewers which were built along with separate road projects; or delete sewers that were redundant
due to city master plan revisions. The additional works are described below:

Anhui Component

(a) about 100 km of additional sewers and seven pumping stations in Bengbu, Huainan and
Lu'an, and two new WWTPs in Huainan (50,000 m3/d) and Bengbu (25,000 m3/d).


Shandong Component

(a) constructed approximately an additional sewers and one pumping station in the urban areas
of the original project cities; and
(b) in Rizhao, constructed a 50,000 m3/d WWTP using loan funds, in the west in Rizhao, and a
second WWTP of 50,000 m3/d capacity at the original location (in the east of the city) using
own funds.6

1.7 Other Significant Changes

(a) Anhui and Shandong: increasing the civil works disbursement percentage to an average of
75% due to the increasing demand for counterpart funds caused by the change in the Chinese
Yuan - USD exchange rate which was 8.30 at the time of appraisal but which had changed to
6.86 at loan closure.
(b) Shandong: Heze, Rizhao and Juxian upgraded wastewater treatment plants to meet Class 1A
discharge standards in Heze, Rizhao and Juxian using own funding, under direction of the
Environmental Protection Bureau.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation and design. The project was designed to complement the ongoing efforts in
Anhui and Shandong7 Provinces by focusing on investments in municipal wastewater sector.
The project sought to maximize benefits through financing collection sewers in cities where
treatment capacity was being created with other funding but where there was a lack of adequate
collection sewers. The Shandong Province component also addressed wastewater management
more broadly, by including a focus on two additional facilities, both of which were major
polluters in their region. These were the wastewater facilities in Rizhao, whose pollution
discharges had an impact on the Bohai Sea, and the Chengwu Paper Mill, which had high
mercury pollution from its electrolytic process. Eventually, physical investments in the project
evolved into a manageable intervention in municipal wastewater collection systems and



6The Bank declined to finance this treatment plant because the proposed treatment did not represent the least cost
design.
7The Shandong component for wastewater management was just 10% of the Province's investment program in the
HRB.


                                                        3

treatment plants in eight cities in Anhui Province, and in four cities and a paper mill in
Shandong Province.

Drawing on experience from earlier Bank-funded projects, sustainability was addressed in the
project design through: (a) ensuring raising of tariffs to levels adequate to support the
development of WCs as financially viable operations; (b) the importance of adequate monitoring
and data bases, as well as the need to link the data to investment planning with regard to
wastewater treatment.

Adequacy of participatory processes. A participatory process involving affected people and
other stakeholders was used to prepare and implementing the Resettlement Action Plans (RAP)
and Environmental Management Plans (EMP), in conformity with Government policies and
procedures and the requirements of the World Bank.

Risks and mitigation measures identified at appraisal. The assumptions made at appraisal
reflected a sound understanding of the risks involved in the project. A realistic approach was
taken, including achievable targets for financial performance, and significant emphasis was
placed on institutional development and staff training. The timely availability of counterpart
funding was identified as a risk, and although this risk was addressed and efforts made to
mitigate it, delays in counterpart funding still had some adverse impact on the project
implementation.

Quality at entry. Key features of project design included: (a) conduct of modeling studies to
form the basis of a basin-wide monitoring system in the two provinces; (b) maximizing
environmental benefits through financing extensive collection networks in project cities where
only treatment capacity was being created with other funding, to increase the wastewater
collection rate significantly in the two Provinces; (c) demonstration of mitigation measures to
reduce pollution from the paper industry; (d) addressing sustainability issues through creation of
wastewater companies, enhancing their autonomy, operation as commercial enterprises,
introduction of sound utility practices, and covenanting financial performance criteria in the
legal agreements; and (e) overall reduction of pollution in the Huai River Basin. There was no
QAG assessment conducted for this project.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation of the two components is summarized below, including key issues:

Anhui Component

(a) Institutional development. All project cities established wastewater companies (WC) to
operate their management autonomously from the local government. The WCs have a
comprehensive set of management and financial regulations and procedures, and an independent
external audit. These companies are all single shareholder state-owned enterprises under the
supervision of relevant local governments. They are adequately staffed for the current
responsibilities.

(b) Financial performance. All WCs were in compliance with the financial performance criteria
specified in the legal agreements, even though three out of twelve WCs were only financially
viable due to government subsidies. Financial viability of WCs could have improved had they
been able to collect wastewater charges from self-supply water users. Anhui Province plans to


                                                  4

increase tariffs to achieve full cost recovery, but this will be done gradually, as the Province is
relatively less developed than Shandong Province. Nonetheless, the cost recovery performance
achieved in the project thus far is a positive achievement. See Annex 4 for more information on
the financial performance of project WCs.

(c) Physical works. The project financed 541 km of collection sewers and four WWTPs with
total capacity of 155,000 m3/d. One WWTP in Bengbu and a few kilometers of collection
sewers, financed with loan savings, were incomplete at loan closure. These works were
completed in September 2008 and became operational in November 2008. All WWTPs
connected by the project sewers operated at over 80%, with the exception of the Guoyang
WWTP, which was operating at about 50% capacity. The project also financed environmental
monitoring equipment and development of a Provincial Environmental Monitoring Information
System (MIS).

Having said that:

(d) Low effectiveness of project management. The Anhui Provincial Project Management
Offices (APPMO) provided overall project coordination, monitoring and reporting, supported by
the project management consultant. Lack of experience in some Project Implementation Units
(PIU) in construction management slowed the project implementation.

(e) Shortage of counterpart funds: Some municipalities were not able to provide counterpart
funds as needed on time, due to other infrastructure investment needs.

(f) External factors for delay of implementation: The outbreak of the SARS epidemic in 2002
and the serious floods of 2004 both contributed to delays in implementation. In addition,
complaints in the procurement process caused the State Council committee in charge of ICB to
put the investments on hold, which caused a delay of over six months.

Shandong Component

(a) Physical works. The project financed three wastewater treatment plants (total capacity of
170,000 m3/d), and 363 km of collection sewers, compared to the target of 176 km at appraisal.

(b) Good project management. Project management and coordination was carried out by the
Shandong Provincial Project Management Office (SPPMO), which had gained considerable
experience under the previous Bank-financed Shandong Environment Project, and its continuing
role in the ongoing Second Shandong Environment Project (SDEP II). This continuity of project
management has proved very valuable, and enabled completion of the component, including
additional works with a two-year extension.

(c) Wastewater treatment options for Rizhao. Discussions between the task team and Rizhao
WC continued for about one year, and implementation delay also occurred due to a revised
proposal by Rizhao to adopt a treatment process for its proposed 100,000 m3/d WWTP, which
the task team considered unnecessary and not the least cost option. Ultimately, the compromise
reached was to construct a 50,000 m3/d WWTP at the original location in the east using the
enhanced treatment process using own funds, and a project-financed 50,000 m3/d WWTP in the
west of the city using the oxidation ditch process.




                                                  5

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design and implementation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was carried out in accordance
with the performance indicators. M&E was done through separate semi-annual progress reports
prepared by APPMO and SPPMO. The reports were based on information collected from the
implementing agencies through monitoring outcomes, outputs, compliance with financial
covenants, and the weights-based performance indicator matrix described in the PAD. The
quality of monitoring from the provinces varied in their rigor, with the Shandong component
monitoring being more complete. Reporting on monitoring and evaluation from the Anhui
component focused more on outputs, and did not include the performance monitoring indicators
for WCs. Bank supervision teams carried out their own monitoring and evaluations and reported
the relevant issues in the implementation status reports (ISR). The project's M&E system was an
integrated part of the government's reporting system, and thus contributed to the quality of
reporting at various government levels.

Although not specified as an indicator, water quality data for the basin rivers indicating changes
were requested at the time of ICR preparation. This data is included in this report demonstrating
the contribution of the project to the improvement of the HR water quality as the development
objective.

Utilization. By collecting data as specified in the M&E system, the project management and
supervision missions effectively utilized the M&E system to gauge progress and to timely
identify problems related to the implementation schedule and suggest necessary corrective and
follow-up actions.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social safeguard issues. Project agencies addressed these matters in accordance with the agreed
resettlement programs. External monitoring of safeguard implementation was carried out in
accordance with the legal agreements. Annual safeguard compliance reports prepared by PIUs
have been submitted regularly.

Environmental issues. PIUs implemented environmental safeguards in compliance with the
environmental management plans and the Bank's safeguard policies. Safeguards reports were
submitted to the Bank regularly.

Procurement and financial management. Procurement activities were carried out satisfactorily
in both Provinces. Financial management complied with the Bank and government
requirements.

External audit. The accounts of each WC and the Chegnwu Paper Mill were satisfactorily
audited by independent auditors according to the requirements set out in the legal agreements.

2.5 Post-completion Operation / Next Phase

All WWTPs, including two WWTPs (Bengbu No.3 and Huainan) which became operational
about in November, 2008, has full funded operation and maintenance budgets, and each WWTP
currently has adequate trained managers and staff, according the established procedures. Each
WC responsible for operating WWTPs has established formal planned maintenance systems. It
is expected that the WCs will continue to set performance indicators such as those used during



                                                  6

project implementation. As such, it is foreseen that post-completion operation of facilities will
continue satisfactorily. WCs will continue their efforts to levy and collect wastewater charges
from self supply water users. Three WWTPs in Anhui Province, i.e., Suzhou, Huainan and
Fuyang, are being operated and managed by private sector contractors.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory

The project development objectives remained fully consistent with the national government
priorities for reducing pollution and improving water quality in the country's major rivers, and
entirely consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy throughout the project
implementation period. The project design and implementation as described in the Section 2.1
and Section 2.2 above were carried out satisfactorily to achieve the project objectives.

At loan closure in June 2008, HRB environmental protection remained a priority in the ongoing
Country Partnership Strategy. Building on the local capacity developed, the experience and
lessons learnt in project design and implementation of the HRPCP, the Bank has continued its
support to, and collaboration with the two Provinces with new investment operations, i.e.,
Second Shandong Environment Project and the Bengbu Integrated Environment Project
(Anhui), approved 2006 and 2008, respectively. Through these interventions, the Bank has
provided support to the country, provinces, and municipalities to contribute to achieving the
targets on water pollution control in the 11th Five Year Plan.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory

The Project achieved substantially the project development objectives measured against the
performance indicators agreed at loan negotiations8 (see Annex 1 for details).

Though not part of the key indicators, and also though only partly attributable to the project,
data gathered at project closure indicates an improvement in the water quality of rivers in the
HRB. The completion of 12 wastewater collection and treatment systems significantly reduced
the pollution loads, which would otherwise have discharged to the local watercourses. The
project also contributed to enhanced sustainable environmental management practices in the two
provinces.

Achievement of project objectives was measured against the weighted performance indicators
set out in the PAD. Based on these performance indicators, the project exceeded the targeted
performance, reaching 112% of its set targets (see Annex 1, Table 1.1). The following outcomes
were listed in the Project Design Summary in the PAD:

(a) Treatment of domestic and industrial pollution in the wastewater treatment plants in the
project cities up to installed capacity. The WWTPs in Anhui Province are operating at nearly
90% capacity, (except Guoyang which is operating at about 50% capacity, where the city's
major industry has decided to construct its own treatment facility), and between 70% and 80% in


8
 The rating for DO in the final ISR (ISR-13) should be `satisfactory' as the text clearly specifies no change.
However, `Moderately Satisfactory' was entered in error.


                                                        7

Shandong Province. This level of capacity utilization at commissioning is considered highly
satisfactory for the two provinces, and is significantly higher than the national average.

(b) Appropriate staffing, staff training, and successful institutional development. Staffing and
training in the WCs were satisfactory: Autonomous wastewater companies were formed at
project appraisal, with Boards of Directors and a General Manager to manage the affairs of the
companies. The WCs did not have control of their revenues, except in Rizhao and Heze. The
respective Finance Bureaus provided operating budgets to WCs. Adequate staff for all WWTPs
were recruited and trained properly as described in Section F.

(c) Improvement in water quality in basin rivers. Improvements in water quality were not
included in the key indicators, because the project's impacts are only a fraction of the impacts
on water quality in the Huai River Basin. Nonetheless, data on water quality during the project's
implementation period was collected. This data indicated some improvement in the water
quality in four out of eight tributary rivers in Anhui province, and major improvements in all
four tributary rivers in Shandong province. The completion of 12 wastewater collection and
treatment systems significantly reduced the pollution loads, which would otherwise discharge to
the local watercourses. It is reasonable to conclude that the project contributed to water quality
improvements. More information is available in Annex 1.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Anhui Component: Moderately Satisfactory
          Shandong Component: Satisfactory

(a) Economic performance of the project

The economic justification of the project was based on cost effectiveness, and no economic rate
of return was calculated. Instead, each sub-project was assessed based on development impact
(its likely contribution to achieving the primary development objective) and using least cost
analysis, with least cost options selected in every case.

All project components have been constructed as appraised, at lower than appraised costs,
project costs have been effectively controlled, and the primary development objective has been
achieved. In Rizhao, the revised component was also justified as a least cost solution, at lower
than envisaged cost, and with the primary development objective also having been met. It is
reasonable to presume that the economic benefits from the project are at least as great as
estimation at project appraisal and in all probability greater, due to the additional works that
were carried out using loan savings.

Direct economic benefits from the project are difficult to translate to monetary values, in part
because of difficulties in obtaining reliable data from the project areas. These benefits include:
(i) reduced pollution discharges to Basin rivers; (ii) improved water quality downstream of the
urban areas with a subsequent favorable impact on drinking and irrigation water; (iii)
contribution to improved public health due to increased wastewater collection and centralized
treatment; (iv) savings by industries discharging to municipal sewers, rather than fully treating
wastewater prior to discharge; and (v) permanent and temporary job creation on which normal
economic multipliers can be applied. The project also provided a major indirect economic
benefit by facilitating the continued expansion of the twelve project cities in an environmentally
sustainable manner. The expansion of these municipalities is part of China's response to rural-



                                                  8

to-urban migration pressure, which is itself consistent with the country's economic development
strategy.

Shandong has accepted the central government's guidelines, recommending all municipal utility
companies to adopt the minimum average wastewater tariff of Y0.80/m3 and accordingly
mandated minimum tariffs in all municipalities. All four WCs generated sufficient revenues in
2007 to largely meet their O&M and debt payment obligations, while tariff levels in Anhui
Province were lower and generally adequate to meet operation and maintenance costs, but
inadequate to meet debt-servicing obligations.

Both Anhui and Shandong Provincial Governments need to take action to enable their WCs to
collect wastewater tariffs from self-supply water users as this could increase WC revenues by an
average of between 15% and 40%.

(b) Financial performance of the project

The financial justification of the project was not the traditional method normally used for
"revenue generating" sub-components. This means that there was no comparison of the
estimated financial rate of return (FRR) with the weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
Instead, the financial viability of the sub-components was appraised based on an assessment of
the long-term financial sustainability of the WCs. This appears to have been a reasonable
approach.

Anhui Province WCs. In five out of eight cities, sufficient wastewater revenues are generated for
the wastewater companies to satisfy operation and maintenance and debt service. The three
remaining cities, Guoyang, Suzhou and Fuyang, depend on special subsidies from their
respective Finance Bureaus to meet revenue shortfalls. Under guidance from the central
government, the local governments are committed to increase tariffs gradually to ensure the
WC's sustainable operations.

Shandong Province WCs. All four cities generated sufficient wastewater revenues for the
companies to meet their financial obligations for O&M and debt-servicing in 2006, together
with an operating surplus in two cases. Financial projections prepared by the companies indicate
that with only modest tariff increases operating surpluses can be sustained over at least a five
year period. These financial projections are provided in Annex 4.

All Shandong cities adopted the average wastewater tariff of Y0.80/m3, recommended by the
Central Government, and mandated by the Provincial Government. The average wastewater
tariffs in all Anhui cities are still lower than the rates assumed at appraisal. More details of
tariffs increases in each of the cities during the course of project implementation are provided in
Annex 4.

In each city, the local water supply company collects the wastewater charges in their water
supply bill. Self-supply industrial users are normally billed by the local water resource office.
All proceeds from the wastewater tariff are remitted initially to the local Finance Bureau, and
from where they are remitted in full to the wastewater company. Income collection performance
achieved by each water supply company is satisfactory. Although the continued involvement of
the local Finance Bureau could be argued as diluting the financial autonomy of the wastewater
companies, in effect, this is not the case as the arrangement is merely one of "funds pass
through". However, this arrangement served well in the initial years when the newly established


                                                    9

WCs faced the challenges of dealing with institutional, technical, and financial matters in
addition to managing construction.

Unit costs of the wastewater O&M have been calculated based on the current situation with
somewhat under-utilized WWTPs. They are also estimated for the future situations when the
WWTPs are fully utilized. All unit costs are within or below the benchmark range of Y0.4/m3 to
Y0.7/m3 set by the Chinese Ministry of Construction.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The satisfactory rating is justified because:

·   The key project development objective measured against the performance indicators matrix
    agreed at loan negotiations was substantially achieved.
·   Water quality of the Basin tributary rivers, which are used by several million people,
    improved due to reduced pollution discharges from project cities, and contributed to the
    improved water quality in the Huai River.
·   All components and additional works were constructed using least cost options, and at costs
    less than those estimated at appraisal, even though implementation took two and three years
    longer than planned in Shandong and Anhui, respectively.
·   Institutional development of WCs was partially achieved in both provinces.
·   Nine out of twelve of the WCs generated adequate revenues to meet their operating expenses
    including debt service.
·   Financial sustainability was achieved in both provinces, with some room for improvement in
    Anhui Province.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The significant changes include transition of municipal wastewater operations into autonomous
state-owned WCs, including training of adequate staff and the development of all procedures
required for smooth operation. Secondly, the project successfully promoted the introduction of
higher wastewater tariffs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.




                                                 10

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low

The completed facilities have been in operation, in sequence, since 2004, with a high rate of
utilization in eleven out of twelve cities. Environmental and institutional benefits have
encouraged strong interest from the municipal and provincial governments for sustainable
operation of collection sewers and wastewater treatment plants financed by the project.
Municipal Governments have continued their commitment to provide financial support to meet
shortfalls until the WCs become fully financially viable. The project outcomes are considered to
be at negligible risks with evidenced governments' effort to improve WWTP operation and
management efficiency, continuous investment in wastewater infrastructure, and stronger
commitment for wastewater tariff increase and collection.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The project design and preparation were supported by a team of Bank experts with a range of
appropriate skills. There was a careful assessment of previous urban environmental projects in
China. The project design took a sensible basin-wide approach during formulation and
preparation. A significant feature of project design was the incorporation of about 900 km9 of
collection networks to service five treatment plants financed under the project10 in addition to the
nine new treatment plants that were constructed in both provinces with other funding. The Bank
made a significant and timely intervention to maximize the utilization of WWTPs, by financing
the construction of extensive collection sewer networks, and strengthening their management
capability. Supporting the effective utilization of WWTPs which were funded by other sources
fully demonstrated the Bank's strategic correctness and leading position in the development of
wastewater management in China.

Project design incorporated formation of autonomous WCs to operate on commercial lines
adopting good utility practices. The project also included technical inputs and support for
institutional strengthening and capacity building, to enhance the Government's commitment for
sustainable operation of the WCs.

The project design team correctly anticipated the challenges of sustaining the financial viability
of municipal service providers, and made provision for subsidies to meet shortfalls. Financial
covenants included assurances from the Provincial Governments that they would cause the
municipalities to effect the required changes to tariffs in a timely fashion. However, the
challenges of collection of charges from self-supply water users, and raising tariffs in Anhui
Province proved to be particularly difficult, which impacted on revenues and the financial well-
being of some WCs.



9The combined length of sewers in the two Provinces was increased, following inclusion of additional works
financed by loan savings, from 799 km to 904 km. Two additional WWTPs were also financed using loan savings.
10At appraisal, sewage collection systems were planned for five project-financed WWTPs. The project also
included one WWTP for the Chengwu Paper Mill, which didn't require sewage collection systems. At mid-term,
two additional project-financed WWTPs were included, making for a total of eight WWTPs financed by the project,



                                                      11

Project preparation first focused on the broader basin approach covering four provinces using a
river basin approach, which did not materialize because other funding was secured by one
province and the other did not wish to take part in the Bank-financed project.


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The supervision performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory. Supervision missions identified
and highlighted weaknesses in project management, contract management and institutional
development. The task team relentlessly pursued improvements in detailed designs, construction
management and implementation, utility management and compliance with financial
performance covenants.

The team leadership was handed over to a field based staff in a seamless manner for the final
two years of the project. This same task team oversaw the preparation of the Second Shandong
Environment Project and the Anhui Bengbu Integrated Environment Improvement Project,
which enabled closer supervision of the HRPCP. With the SPPMO in charge of all three Bank
urban operations in Shandong, and APPMO in charge of two Bank urban operations in Anhui,
there was frequent contact and coordination between the Bank and the two provinces, in
particular in the last two years when the Task Team Leader (TTL) was based in the field office.

The schedule of formal supervision missions does not fully reflect the Bank's support for
HRPCP, as many issues were concurrently addressed during various missions to Shandong and
Anhui. Extensive inputs including weekly communications with the APPMO in the latter stage
of the project period to accelerate the progress of the Anhui Component. The mission team had
high expertise with sound knowledge of international and regional practices.

The task team and Bank management responded favorably to the Borrower's request to utilize
nearly 30% of loan savings that accumulated due to lower contract prices and the traditional
norm-based estimates the agencies were required to use at appraisal. Both Anhui and Shandong
Provinces were able to maximize project benefits and utilize all the loan proceeds, albeit with
extensions of the loan closing date.


Safeguards Compliance
Rating: Satisfactory


Members of the task team from the Beijing office satisfactorily carried out the supervision of
implementation of safeguard issues. The team carried out sufficient field visits to review
progress and ensured the submission of the external monitor's report on safeguard
implementation.


Fiduciary Compliance
Rating: Satisfactory


Financial management and procurement activities were carried out satisfactorily by members of
the task team from the Beijing office. Quick, and sometimes instant responses, were provided to
the clients' requests for clarification and guidance on procurement matters.



                                                 12

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory, based on the satisfactory ratings in the above areas.


5.2 Borrower


(a) Government Performance
Rating: Anhui Province: Satisfactory
          Shandong Province: Satisfactory

Anhui Province. The Anhui Provincial Government was committed to the project development
objective. The Government coordinated with a number of departments to resolve problems
during implementation, provided necessary counterpart funds albeit with some delays, and
facilitated approval of land acquisition and urban planning. In some cases it took time to resolve
such difficulties, leading to a project implementation delay of three years beyond the original
completion date. There were also several external factors which delayed progress in
implementation, including shortage of counterpart funds, delays due to complications in the ICB
process, and the SARS epidemic and serious floods in 2002 and 2004, respectively. Two
WWTPs and few collection sewers that were incomplete at project closure have been completed
about four months later, and are operational. To the credit of the Province, all components, both
original and additional works, were completed despite the difficulties experienced, and will
contribute to achieving the project development objective.

Financial covenants. Financial performance criteria for WCs were included in the legal
agreements, including a requirement for the provinces to cause WCs to generate adequate
revenues to meet O&M costs and debt service payments. However, achieving the required
performance was facilitated by the definition of net income as `revenue from operations and
non-operating income', which implicitly allowed the inclusion of government subsidies.11
Therefore, all WCs were in compliance with the major financial covenants. When only counting
tariff revenues, five out of eight of the project WCs in Anhui generated adequate revenue to
meet O&M costs and debt service payments. Anhui Province intends to have its WCs achieve
full cost recovery through increased tariffs in the near future, but has proceeded cautiously due
to its economic conditions.

Shandong Province. The decision of the Shandong Provincial Government (SPG), in 2003,
requiring all municipal utility companies adopt the minimum average wastewater tariff
recommended by the central government (Y0.80/m3), facilitated improvement of finances of all
WCs in the Province. All WCs were in compliance with the project financial covenants, and all
project WCs in Shandong generated adequate tariff revenues to meet O&M costs and debt
service payments. SPG also ensured that counterpart funding was available in a timely manner.
As a parallel activity, the SPG implemented an industrial pollution control program that
decreased pollution discharges to the Basin Rivers. SPG could have been more proactive in the
wastewater institutional development by taking action to ensure that self-supply water users paid
wastewater charges.




11Project Agreement, Schedule 3 "Principle Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements", Section II,
Paragraph 11(a).


                                                     13

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Anhui Province: Satisfactory
          Shandong Province: Highly Satisfactory

APPMO and PIUs. APPMO comprising of senior staff from the Provincial Financial Bureau and
Construction Commission, actively cooperated with the PIUs to accelerate project
implementation. Some of the PIU staff from the eight cities had insufficient experience in
managing construction of civil works; they managed, however, to implement the project with
the support of the project management consultants. PMO/PIU working staff had good working
attitude to perform duties and most difficulties have been overcome to achieve the PDO. All
WCs met the financial performance criteria. The companies enjoyed a substantial degree of
autonomy, even though they did not have full control of the wastewater revenues. The Lu'an
WC performed best with a stable management and good management. Project progress reporting
was generally satisfactory.

SPPMO and PIUs. SPPMO and PIUs were adequately staffed, experienced and managed the
project in a diligent and effective manner. Their internal communication lines were clear and
worked effectively to assure the project progressed well in most of implementation period. All
wastewater companies met the financial performance criteria. The companies enjoyed a
substantial degree of autonomy, and control of the wastewater revenues. The Feicheng WC
performed best in financial management, generating enough revenue to meet all operating costs
and generate a surplus. Despite the delays, the Chengwu Paper Mill completed the black liquor
treatment and wastewater treatment subprojects in 2007. It also complied substantially with the
project's financial performance targets for 2005 and 2006. Project progress reporting was
comprehensive and of good quality.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The central and provincial governments, as well as the participating municipalities, showed
strong commitment to the project throughout its preparation and implementation phases. All
agencies performed well in implementing the physical aspects of the projects components,
despite the financial constraints and additional time required to complete implementation. All
original and additional components were completed in Shandong Province, and substantially
completed in Anhui Province by the loan closing date12.

6. Lessons Learned

(a) A basin-wide approach could be adopted if a new, similar project were to be initiated. At the
time of appraisal it was considered too ambitious to adopt a comprehensive basin-wide approach
for the project. Today, the greater awareness of water pollution in China increases the likelihood
that a multi-province basin-wide approach could be adopted. It is recommended that future
similar projects explore the possibility of a comprehensive approach, consisting of a Bank-led
multi-agency effort encompassing agriculture and other major factors that have an impact on
water quality.

(b) Collection of wastewater charges from self -supplied-water industries affected the financial
performance of WCs. There is good justification to levy wastewater charges on all users who


12All the remaining works have been completed by December 2008.



                                                    14

discharge wastewater to city sewer systems. Theoretically, wastewater charges should be levied
on self supply water users; however, some users receive no service from WCs as their
wastewater is discharged to river systems. The issue of self supply water users acquired greater
focus because revenue from this group of consumers could have impacted positively on the
financial health of WCs. There is a need to be realistic about collection rates from self supply
water users, and this issue is best addressed after consolidation of plant operations, say, in about
three years, and with provincial government support to set up regulations and enforcement
powers for WCs. As a first step, it is recommended that the Bank raises this issue through policy
dialogue at a national level, and encourage the introduction of necessary laws and regulations
for self-supply water user, and the use of ground water ­ a scarce and depleting resource.

(c) The project's implementation timeline. Project implementation was affected by the SARS
epidemic and serious floods. This notwithstanding, a project implementation period of four
years provided little flexibility for start up problems and unforeseen events. The project
implementation period needs to be set realistically, and consistent with the urban/environment
project profile for the region, which is about six to seven years, on average.

(d) Complaints in procurement process caused the State Council committee in charge of ICB to
put the investments on hold, thereby causing delays. Such delays may occur regardless of
whether or not complaints are valid. The level at which such complaints need to be resolved
(State Council) is too high for the project teams to effectively address. This is a relatively
common problem for Bank-financed projects in China. It is recommended that the Bank
consider adopting some mechanism to resolve complaints in ICB procedures in a consolidated
way.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrowers comments are presented in Annex 7. Shandong Province raised no major issues
in its borrower's ICR. Anhui Province raised several issues which are commented on below:

(i)     Issue: Difficulties encountered in the institutional and financial reforms required under
        the project, particularly in autonomy of WCs in terms of tariff collection and enterprise
        management. Comment: Through the implementation of the project, the Bank team also
        acknowledges that the autonomous collection of tariffs of WCs is not necessarily an
        advantage. The Municipal Finance Bureaus are in a stronger position to ensure a high
        rate of wastewater tariff collection.
(ii)    Issue: Lower than expected bidding costs, and awarding contracts to the lowest bids
        leading to frequent construction delays. Comment: After considering this issue, the Bank
        team believes the issue should be studied by the Bank procurement unit.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Not applicable



                                                  15

                                Annex 1: Performance Indicators
                         CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project



The framework for project performance indicators agreed at loan negotiations is summarized
below.

Performance Indicators for WCs. The performance of WCs was to be evaluated against three
broad indicators: physical, with five sub-indicators; institutional, with three sub-indicators; and
financial, with three sub-indicators. Physical indicators were assigned a weight of 60%, while
institutional and financial indicators were given a weight of 20% each. Sub-indicators and their
respective weights were as follows:

    (a) Physical Indicators: Lengths of (i) combined sewers, (ii) sanitary sewers, (iii)
        interceptors, (iv) treatment capacity, and (v) volume of wastewater treated. The first four
        were output indicators and the fifth an impact indicator. Each sub-indicator was given a
        20% weight.
    (b) Institutional Indicators: Number of staff; staff training; and impact of institutional
        development. The first two output indicators were given a weight of 25% each, and the
        third, the impact indicator, was given a weight of 50%.
    (c) Financial Indicators: Net income; debt-servicing coverage; and accounts receivable. All
        three are impact indicators. Net income was assigned a weight of 50%, while the other
        two were assigned 25% each.

Weights. Based on investment amounts in the two provinces, and their relative importance,
weights were assigned as follows: Anhui Province ­ 67%; Shandong Province 33%. Within each
province, relative weights of 12.5% were assigned to each of the eight WCs in Anhui Province,
while the four WCs and the Chengwu Paper Mill in Shandong were assigned 20% each.

Indicators for Chengwu Paper Mill. The physical indicators (treatment capacity, treated output,
and output quality), and financial indicators (quick ratio, current ratio, and debt-servicing
coverage ratio) were assigned 50% weight each. All indicators, except treatment capacity, are
impact indicators. Weights assigned to sub-indicators were: Physical: 20%, 40% and 40%; and
Financial: 25%, 25% and 50%, respectively.

Assessment of Performance. A score of 80 or higher out of 100 was considered satisfactory
performance.

Additional Impact Assessment. As part of the ICR evaluation, the task team collected additional
data to establish the impact/contribution of the project and associated investments on pollution
load reductions and water quality of the local basin rivers. This was in addition to assessing the
WC performance using the performance indicator matrix agreed at negotiations. |The results are
presented below.




                                                 16

Table 1.1: Achievement Rate of Project Performance Indicators
(all numbers in the table represent the percentage achieved at the time of ICR (December 2008) against targets set in the PAD (February 2001)

                                                                                                                                                                  Weighted
                                  Physical Indicators (60%)             Institutional Indicators (20%)              Financial Indicators (20%)
                                                                                                                                                                Performance
                               Total                                                               Inst.                        Debt
                                                         WWTP          Number          Staff
                               Sewer       Capacity                                                Devt.     Net Income       Service         Accounts
                              Length13                Utilization14     of Staff     Training
                                            (20%)                                                 Impact        (50%)           Cov.        Receiv. (25%)
                                                          (20%)         (25%)         (25%)
                               (60%)                                                              (50%)                        (25%)
 Anhui
 Bengbu                         81%          n/a15        121%                                                                                                       91%
 Bozhou                         92%          n/a          106%                                                                                                       96%
 Fuyang                         44%          n/a          113%                                                                                                       61%
 Guoyang                        35%         100%           63%                                                                                                       42%
 Huaibei                        76%          n/a          115%                                                                                                       86%
 Huainan                       127%          n/a          116%                                                                                                       125%
 Lu'an                         224%         100%          101%                                                                                                       175%
 Suzhou                         86%          n/a          103%                                                                                                       90%
 Anhui Total                    86%         194%         108%16         100%          100%        80%17         100%           100%             80%18                104%
 Shandong
 Feicheng                      292%         100%          100%                                                                                                       215%
 Heze                          148%         100%           94%                                                                                                       127%
 Rizhao                        254%         100%           95%                                                                                                       192%
 Juxian                        283%          n/a           91%                                                                                                       235%
 Shandong Sub-total19          214%         100%           95%          100%          100%         80%          100%           100%              80%                138%


13Total sewer length is the combined length of interceptors, secondary sewers, and pumping mains
14No clear targets for volume of wastewater (WW) treated were given in the PAD. Hence, the utilization of WWTPs in project cities is used as a meaningful
substitute. The assumed target is set at 80% of capacity for all WCs. Actual utilization rates (Annex 4: Table 4.5) have been measured against this target.
15Not all cities had WWTPs planned at the time of the PAD. Therefore it is impossible to assign a percentage of actual achieved against target. In this case, the
weighted performance of physical indicators for that city has been based on 75% for total length of sewers, and 25% for WW treated
16Provincial total numbers have been calculated using the utilization ratios per city weighted by the treatment capacity per city, against the target utilization at 80%
of capacity (in other words, the aggregate percentages stated are not simply the average of the above percentages)
17Institutional development impact has received a score of 80, because three WCs still required subsidies to cover debt service coverage
18Accounts receivable has received a lowered score due to the lower than expected collection rates from self-supply water users in several cities
19The Chengwu Paper Mill treatment plant's performance indicators can only be reconciled with the cities'aggregate performance, due to different weightings



                                                                                   17

                                Physical Indicators (50%)                                                              Financial Indicators (50%)
                                                                                                                                               Debt
                           Treatment      Treated       Output                                                      Quick         Current      Serv.
                            Capacity      Output        Quality                                                     Ratio20        Ratio     Coverage
                            (20%)         (40%)         (40%)                                                       (25%)         (25%)        Ratio
                                                                                                                                               (50%)
 Chengwu                    100%          75%21          100%                                                         n/a           n/a        100%         95%

 Shandong Total                                                                                                                                            129%
 Project Overall
                                                                                                                                                           112%
 Weighted Total



(A) Assessment Based on Performance Indicators Matrix Agreed at Negotiations.

As shown in the table above, the project's overall performance exceeded the performance indicator targets, reaching 112%, mainly as a
result of the effective utilization of loan savings for additional sewer network and treatment plant construction.




20The Chengwu Paper Mill treatment plant's quick ratio and current ratio have not been calculated because the plant has no separate balance sheet
21Calculated using the same method as the WW treated column for the cities, i.e. the actual utilization rate (60%) as compared to the assumed target of 80%



                                                                                18

Table 1.2: Performance Indicators, Planned against Actual

                                     Total Sewer Length                          Treatment Capacity                     Pumping Stations
                             PAD          Mid-Term      Completed          PAD        Mid-Term      Completed         Planned      Completed
                             (km)           (km)           (km)          (m3/d)          (m3/d)        (m3/d)

 Anhui
        Bengbu               100.4            83            81                           25000        2500022            4            4
        Bozhou                68.3            63            63                                                           3             223
        Fuyang                94.7           46.5           42                                                           4            4
       Guoyang                71.1            25            25            40000          40000         40000             3            3
        Huaibei               98.9            81            75                                                           4            4
       Huainan                90.2          134.5          115                           50000         50000             3            3
         Lu'an                35.7            83             8024         40000          40000         40000             3            3
        Suzhou                70.1            66            60                                                           1            1

 Anhui Sub-Total             629.4          58225          541            80000          155000       155000             25           24

 Shandong
       Feicheng                24            65.9           70            40000          40000         40000
         Heze                 76.2          118.7          112.7          80000          80000         80000             4            4
        Rizhao                53.1           135           135           100000          100000       100000             3            3
        Juxian                 16            45.3          45.3
       Chengwu                  0             0              0            20000          20000         20000

 Shandong Sub-Total          169.3          364.9          363           240000          240000       240000             7            7

 Project Total               798.7          946.9          904           320000          395000       395000             32           31




22The wastewater treatment plant at Bengbu was completed in October 2008, after project completion, but before the time of the ICR.
23One pumping station's equipment procurement was completed, but the civil works were cancelled during project implementation and it was approved recently to
be brought into the Bengbu Integrated Environment Improvement Project;
24Seven more km of sewer has been finished than was planned in the original component of Lu'an city
25Although the Amendment to the Loan Agreement lists 604 km of sewers, about 22 km of sewers were cancelled before project implementation in Bengbu,
Huainan and Lu'an, resulting in a planned length of 582 km of sewers after the mid-term review



                                                                               19

(B) Summary of Additional Assessment on Pollution Load Reductions and Water
Quality (at ICR Stage)


In addition to the performance indicators agreed at negotiations, data was collected on
pollution load reduction and water quality at or close to the discharge points in the rivers
to which treated wastewater was discharged. This data was collected by the project cities
based on information obtained from the local Environmental Protection Bureaus. It must
be noted that the water quality indicators do not reflect accurately the impact of the
project investments, but does provide a broad view of the impact of the project
contribution to improving water quality. Other important factors may have contributed to
both the improvement and deterioration of water quality in the tributary rivers.


The water quality in the tributaries of the Huai River was measured before project
implementation, between 1999 and 2000, and again at project completion in June 2007. The
following graphs show water quality downstream of the WWTP discharge points in the rivers
running past the respective cities, both in terms of CODCr and BOD5. For a more detailed
explanation of the implications of the following data, please refer to the Attachment to Annex
1: "Explanatory Note on Water Quality Classifications, Water Quality Parameters and
Designated Uses".


Shandong Province Water Quality


Graph 1.1: Water Quality in Kangwang River (Feicheng)


   160

   140

   120

   100
                                                           CODCr mg/L
    80
                                                           BOD5 mg/L
    60

    40

    20

     0

       1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007



Graph 1.2: Water Quality in Zhushui River (Heze)


   350

   300

   250

   200                                                     CODCr mg/L

   150                                                     BOD5 mg/L

   100

    50

     0

       1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007



                                               20

Graph 1.3: Water Quality in Shu River (Juxian)


  180

  160

  140

  120

  100                                                  CODCr mg/L

   80                                                  BOD5 mg/L
   60

   40

   20

    0

      1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007



Graph 1.4: Water Quality in Dongyu River (Chengwu)
(no BOD5 data available)


  100
   90
   80
   70
   60
   50                                                  CODCr mg/L
   40
   30
   20
   10
    0

      1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007




         Table 1.3: COD/BOD/SS Load Reduction After Operation of WWTP

            Pollution                                 Year
              Load
   City
           Reduction      2002        2003        2004    2005     2006   2007
           (Ton/yr)

             CODCr         --          --         609     1654     2671   8700
 Feicheng    BOD5          --          --         155     537      930    2622

               SS          --          --         339     1084     1573   3510

             CODCr         --          --         --      2508     5179   7251

  Heze       BOD5          --          --         --      672      1583   2216

               SS          --          --         --      1416     2837   3972

             CODCr         --         801         1273    1653     2132   2236
  Juxian     BOD5          --         384         575     668      882    916

               SS          --         578         894     975      794    852

             CODCr         --          --         --       --      --     6521
  Paper
   Mill      BOD5          --          --         --       --      --     2222

               SS          --          --         --       --      --     --



                                             21

Anhui Province Water Quality


Graph 1.5: Water Quality in Guo River ­ Bozhou Section (Bozhou)


 70

 60

 50

 40                                                 CODCr mg/L

 30                                                 BOD5 mg/L

 20

 10

  0

    2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008



Graph 1.6: Water Quality in Ying River (Fuyang)


 60

 50

 40
                                                    CODCr mg/L
 30
                                                    BOD5 mg/L
 20

 10

  0

    2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008



Graph 1.7: Water Quality in Guo River (Guoyang)


 60

 50

 40

                                                    CODCr mg/L
 30
                                                    BOD5 mg/L
 20

 10

  0

    2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008




                                           22

Graph 1.8: Water Quality in Kuai River (Huaibei)
(no CODCr data available for 2000 to 2002)


  50
  45
  40
  35
  30
                                                        CODCr mg/L
  25
                                                        BOD5 mg/L
  20
  15
  10
   5
   0

      2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008



Graph 1.9: Water Quality in Laopei River (Lu'an)
(no data available for 2000, no CODCr data for 2001 and 2002)


  20
  18
  16
  14
  12
                                                     CODCr mg/L --
  10
                                                     BOD5 mg/L --
   8
   6
   4
   2
   0

      2001 2002  2003 2004 2005 2006  2007 2008



Graph 1.10: Water Quality in Hui River (Suzhou)


  60

  50

  40

                                                        CODCr mg/L
  30
                                                        BOD5 mg/L

  20

  10

   0

      2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008




                                             23

Table 1.4: COD, BOD and SS Load Reduction After Operation of WWTP


                                                               Year
 Pollution Load Reduction                                                                    The first
         (Ton/yr)          2000    2001      2002      2003    2004   2005    2006    2007    half of
                                                                                              2008
                 CODCr      --      --        --       6806    8088   8000    9700   14261.5   --
  Bengbu         BOD5       --      --        --       2216    3671   3954    4879    7598     --

                  SS        --      --        --       2208    8076   6874    8574   13989     --

                 CODCr      --      --        --        --      --     --      --     386.6    960
  Bozhou         BOD5       --      --        --        --      --     --      --     212      528

                  SS        --      --        --        --      --     --      --     193      480

                 CODCr      --      --        --        --      --     --     3231    6604    4587
  Fuyang         BOD5       --      --        --        --      --     --     1561    2765    1900

                  SS        --      --        --        --      --     --     3023    3457    2320

                 CODCr      --      --        --        --     120    949    1204.5  1335.2   822.1
 Guoyang         BOD5       --      --        --        --     87.2   554.8   657     821.3   391.5

                  SS        --      --        --        --     80.8   507.4   618.7   764.2   328.1

                 CODCr      --     1225      2025      3038    3532   4534    3959    6200    2846
  Huaibei        BOD5       --     642       936       1935    1526   2025    2205    2538    1081

                  SS        --     898       1349      1850    2450   3220    3749    4520    2710

                 CODCr      --      --        --        --      --    1588    2361    2125    1131
 Huainan         BOD5       --      --        --        --      --    753     866     919      517

                  SS        --      --        --        --      --    1301    2110    1248     521

                 CODCr      --      --        --        --      --     --     987     2528    1544
  Lu'an          BOD5       --      --        --        --      --     --     740     1896    1158

                  SS        --      --        --        --      --     --      --      --      --

                 CODCr      --      --        --        --     1104   2484    2898    3726    2172
  Suzhou         BOD5       --      --        --        --     480    1080    1260    1620     --

                  SS        --      --        --        --     960    2160    2520    3240     --




                                                         24

Attachment to Annex 1

Explanatory Note on Water Quality Classifications, Water Quality Parameters and
Designated Uses

Water Quality Classifications. Surface water quality in China is classified under the
Environmental Quality Standard for Surface Water issued by the State Environmental
Protection Administration in April 2002, as follows:

Class I         Naturally unpolluted and specific nationally designated water sources
Class II        Water bodies designated as Class A, protection areas for potable water use,
                habitat of rare aquatic organism, spawning grounds of fish and shrimp, and
                feeding grounds of young fish
Class III       Water bodies designated as Class B protection areas for potable water use,
                fishing areas including winter grounds and migration channels of fish and
                shrimp, and aquatic plants, and swimming areas
Class IV        Water bodies designated for general industrial use and recreation without
                direct contact with human skin
Class V         Water suitable for agriculture use and general irrigation/landscaping use

Water Quality Parameters. Whether a water body meets the classification is determined by
a number of parameters. Key parameters include: pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), permanganate
index, COD, BOD5, ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N), total phosphorus (P) and total ammonia
(NH3. The table below indicates the limiting values of parameters applicable to the different
classifications. Designated sources of water for potable use must achieve at least Class III.
Ideally, water sources for major cities should reach Class II. Targets are set based in the
intended water use and the location.

           Limiting Values of Key Water Quality Parameters for Surface Water

         Clarification
    No.  Standard            Class I         Class II      Class III     Class IV     Class V
         Item
    1    Water           Water temperature variation caused by factitious environment should be
         temperature     limited in the range of:
         (C)             Max. Weekly Average Temperature Rise 1
                         Max. Weekly Average Temperature Drop 2
    2    pH                                                   6-9
    3    DO              Saturation       6              5             3            2
                         factor 90%
                         (or 7.5)
    4    Permanganate    2                4              6             10           15
         index
    5    COD             15               15             20            30           40
    6    BOD5            3                3              4             6            10
    7    NH3-N           0.15             0.5            1.0           1.5          2.0
    8    Total P         0.02 (0.01 for   0.1 (0.025 for 0.2 (0.05 for 0.3 (0.1 for 0.4 (0.2 for
                         lakes and        lakes and      lakes and     lakes and    lakes and
                         reservoirs)      reservoirs)    reservoirs)   reservoirs)  reservoirs)
    9    Total NH3       0.2              0.5            1.0           1.5          2.0



                                                   25

                                  Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing
                             CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project



                Table 2.1: Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                        Appraisal Estimate      Actual        Percentage of
              Components
                                          (US$ millions)     (US$ millions)    Appraisal
ANHUI COMPONENT
Sanitary sewers, interceptors                  84.57              65.26           77%
Pumping stations                               12.97              12.40           96%
Wastewater treatment plants                    14.24              14.45          101%
Operational equipment and vehicles              2.03               3.27          161%
Anhui environmental monitoring center           0.69               0.60           87%
Services, training and study tours              4.61              14.67          318%
                                Subtotal     119.11              110.70          93%
Physical & Price Contingencies                 22.38              18.05           81%
                Anhui Component Total        141.49              128.70          91%
SHANDONG COMPONENT

Sanitary sewers, interceptors, pumping
                                              22.1                27.37          124%
stations

Wastewater treatment plants                  29.88                23.34           78%
Operational equipment and vehicles            0.83                 3.12          376%
Services, training and study tours            2.72                 7.26          267%
Sub-total                                    55.53                61.09          110%
Physical & Price Contingencies               10.44                10.44          100%
          Shandong Component Total           65.97                71.53          108%
                    Total Project Costs       207.46             200.23          96%




                                                   26

                Table 2.2: Project Cost by Sub-Components (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                                        Appraisal
                                                                                             Percentage of
                     Components                        Estimate (US$ Actual (US$ millions)
                                                                                               Appraisal
                                                        millions)*
Bengbu Wastewater interception & treatment                 27.42             25.30              92.3%
Bozhou Wastewater interception & treatment                  8.73             11.30              129.4%
Fuyang Wastewater interception & treatment                  6.20             6.72               108.4%
Guoyang wastewater interception & treatment                 8.25             7.19               87.2%
Huaibei wastewater interception & treatment                 9.19             9.59               104.4%
Huainan wastewater interception & treatment                30.15             32.52              107.9%
Lu'an wastewater interception & treatment                  21.54             22.02              102.2%
Suzhou Wastewater interception & treatment                 11.51             9.91               86.1%
Anhui Environmental Monitoring Center                       0.60             0.60               100.0%
Institutional Strengthening, Construction Supervision
                                                            3.55             3.55               100.0%
& Training
           Total Anhui Component Cost
                                                           127.14           128.70              101.2%
              (including contingencies)
Feicheng Wastewater interception & treatment                9.78             8.35                85%
Heze Wastewater interception & treatment                   20.46             18.83               92%
Rizhao Wastewater interception & treatment                 20.02             26.91              134%
Juxian Wastewater interception                              2.09             2.68               128%
Chengwu Wastewater treatment                               10.26             6.26                61%
Institutional Strengthening, Construction
                                                            5.30             8.50               160%
Supervision, Land Acquisition, Services & Training
         Total Shandong Component Cost
                                                           67.91             71.53              105%
              (including contingencies)
  *Note: Refers to appraisal estimate at project mid-term review



                                                Table 2.3: Financing

                                                            Appraisal
                                                                          Actual       Percentage of
                         Source of Funds                    Estimate
                                                                       (US$ millions)    Appraisal
                                                         (US$ millions)
            Borrower Agencies                                 101.96        94.73          93%
           Comprising
           Anhui Province                                      70.25        57.45
           Shandong Province                                   31.65        37.28
           International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                              105.50       105.50         100%
           and Development
           Comprising
           Anhui Province                                      71.25        71.25
           Shandong Province                                   34.25        34.25
           Total                                              207.46       200.23          96%




                                                           27

                                Annex 3: Outputs by Component
                        CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project



1. Anhui Province Outputs

A. Wastewater Investment

(1) Bengbu Component
Original component (US$15.36 million at Appraisal; Final: US$12.80 million, completed: June
2008)
The original component was satisfactorily implemented between 2003 and 2008. This included
laying 46 km of pipeline and the construction of three pumping stations. Currently, 44 km of
pipelines have been laid and two pumping stations have been completed. 2 km of pipelines have
been cancelled, and equipment installation for the third pumping station has been cancelled
because the party in charge of the civil works of the pumping station is not planning to construct
it. The procurement of seven vehicles, some office equipment and other goods has been
completed through provincial centralized procurement.

The additional component (US$12.06 million at Appraisal; Final: US$12.50 million, completed
June 2008)
The additional component was satisfactorily implemented between 2006 and 2008. This included
laying 37 km of pipeline and the construction of a WWTP with 25,000 m3/d, as well as one
pumping station (including the supply and installation of equipment) and one office building. To
date, 37 km of pipeline, one pumping station and the civil works of the WWTP were completed
in September, 2008, and commissioned in November 2008. The commissioning of the WWTP,
will contribute to reducing the discharge of water pollution discharges from Bengbu to the Huai
River. Procurement of four operational vehicles and office equipment, laboratory instruments
and chemical medicine supplies has been cancelled.

(2) Huainan Component
Original component (US$11.14 million at Appraisal; Final: US$16.71 million, completed: June
2008)
The original component was satisfactorily implemented between 2002 and 2008. This included
laying 107.5 km of pipeline and the construction of four pumping stations. Currently, 90 km of
pipeline has been laid; and about 17.5 km of pipeline has been cancelled. The construction and
equipment installation of all four pumping stations and the procurement of office equipment and
three vehicles have been completed.

The additional component (US$19.01 million at Appraisal; Final: US$15.81 million, completed:
June 2008)
The additional component was satisfactorily implemented between 2006 and 2008. This included
the laying of 27 km of pipeline and the construction of a WWTP with 50,000 m3/d, as well as
two pumping stations (including the supply and installation of equipment) and one office
building. The sewer pipelines, two pumping stations and the WWTP have been completed in the




                                                28

fourth quarter of 2008. The PIU has cancelled the procurement of five operational vehicles,
office equipment, laboratory instruments and chemical supplies.

(3) Lu'an Component
Original component (US$14.76 million at Appraisal; Final: US$15.38 million, completed: June
2008)
The original component was satisfactorily implemented between 2003 and 2008. This included
the laying of 43 km of pipeline, the construction of three pumping stations, and the construction
of a 40.000 m3/d WWTP. To date, about 50 km of pipeline has been laid, three pumping stations
have been completed, and the WWTP has been constructed. The procurement of the WWTP's
equipment supply and installation, and procurement of four operation vehicles has been
completed.

The additional component (US$6.78 million at Appraisal; Final: US$6.64 million, completed:
June 2008)
The additional component has been satisfactorily implemented between 2006 and 2008, which
includes 40 km of pipeline laying and three pumping stations. The pipelines and the three
pumping stations were completed in the fourth quarter of 2008. Procurement of monitoring
devices and vehicles and office equipment and laboratory instruments has been cancelled.

(4) Bozhou Component (US$8.73 million at Appraisal; Final: US$11.30 million, completed:
June 2008)
The component was satisfactorily implemented between 2002 and 2008. This included the laying
of 63 km of pipeline and the construction of four pumping stations. Currently, 55 km of pipeline
has been laid and all four pumping stations have been completed and are in operation. The
procurement of vacuum trucks and vehicles and office equipment has been completed.


(5) Fuyang Component (US$6.20 million at Appraisal; Final: US$6.72 million, completed:
June 2008)
The component was satisfactorily implemented between 2002 and 2008. This included the laying
of 46.5 km of pipeline and the construction of three pumping stations. Thus far, all 42 km of
pipeline has been laid, (4.5 km of pipeline has been cancelled) three pumping stations have been
completed and are operating. The procurement of six vacuum trucks and vehicles and office
equipment has been finished.

(6) Huaibei Component (US$9.19 million at Appraisal; Final: US$9.59 million June 2008)
The component has been satisfactorily implemented between 2002 and 2008, which includes 81
km of pipeline laying and four pumping stations. Thus far, all 75 km of pipeline have been laid
(6 km of pipeline have been cancelled), and four pumping stations have been completed and are
under operation. Procurement of one vacuum truck and office equipment has been completed.

(7) Suzhou Component (US$11.51 million at Appraisal; Final: US$9.91 million, completed:
June 2008)
The component has been satisfactorily implemented between 2002 and 2008, which includes 66
km pipeline laying and three pumping stations. The three pumping stations and sewer lines were
completed in the fourth quarter of 2008.



                                                29

(8) Guoyang Component (US$8.25 million at Appraisal; US$7.19 million June 2008)
The component has been satisfactorily implemented between 2002 and 2006, which includes 25
km pipeline laying and one pumping station. Thus far, 25 km of pipeline have been laid. One
pumping station has been finished and put into operation. Procurement of three vacuum trucks
and vehicles and equipment of WWTP has been completed.

B. Anhui Provincial Environmental Monitoring Center
(US$0.60 million at Appraisal; Final: US$0.60 million, completed: June 2008)
Implementation was rated satisfactory between 2002 and 2008. Renovation works were
completed for the laboratory building. Monitoring instruments, equipment and utility vehicles
were purchased for supplementary and replacement purposes, which significantly improved the
monitoring capacity and the level of management. A provincial environmental information
system has also been developed in Anhui.

C. Institutional Strengthening, Construction Supervision and Training
(US$3.55 million at Appraisal; Final: US$3.55 million, completed: June 2008)
Five technical assistance (TA) packages consisting of Package A, Package B, Individual
Consultant Package, Package C and Package C Extension, were implemented satisfactorily
between July 2002 and June 2008.

2. Shandong Province Outputs

(1) Feicheng Wastewater. (US$5.09 million at Appraisal; Final: US$5.12 million, completed:
June 2007)
The appraisal target was to construct 4.5 km of secondary sewers, 19.5 km of pumping mains
and 40,000 m3/d capacity wastewater treatment plant. The sub-component outputs exceeded the
targets set at appraisal, as the 40,000 m3/d WWTP and a total of 70 km of sewers and pumping
mains were constructed, and additional equipment for sewer network maintenance and water
quality analysis and monitoring was procured. Loan savings were utilized to construct additional
sewers and procure additional equipment.

(2) Heze Wastewater. (US$ 10.92 million at Appraisal; Final: US$ 11.03 million, completed:
June 2007)
The appraisal target was to construct 76.2 km of interceptors and secondary sewers, four sewage
pumping stations, and a wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of 80,000 m3/d. The sub-
component outputs exceeded the targets set at appraisal, as the 80,000 m3/d WWTP and a total of
112.7 km of sewers were constructed, and additional equipment for sewer network maintenance,
pumping station controls, odor control system and WWTP effluent disinfection system was
procured. Loan savings were utilized to construct additional sewers and procure additional
equipment.

(3) Rizhao Wastewater. (US$10.41 million at Appraisal; Final: US$10.54 million, completed:
June 2007)
The appraisal target was to construct 53.1 km of interceptors, secondary sewers and pumping
mains, three sewage pumping stations and a 100,000 m3/d capacity wastewater treatment plant.
The sub-component outputs exceeded the targets set at appraisal, as two WWTPs of 50,000 m3/d



                                               30

capacity each, and a total a total of 135 km of sewers were constructed. Loan savings were
utilized to construct additional sewers.

(4) Juxian Wastewater. (US$0.98 million at Appraisal; Final: US$0.98 million, completed:
June 2007)
The appraisal target was to construct 16 km of interceptors and secondary sewers. The sub-
component outputs exceeded the targets set at appraisal, as a total of 45.3 km of sewers were
constructed. Loan savings were utilized to construct additional sewers. The WWTP is currently
treating about 29,000 m3/d, and the effluent quality is meeting the discharge standards.

(5) Chengwu Paper Mill Wastewater. (US$4.90 million at Appraisal; Final: US$4.59 million,
completed: June 2007)
The appraisal target was to construct the black liquor treatment section (capacity 1,200 m3/d) and
mid-section wastewater treatment plant (capacity 20,000 m3/d).

(6) Institutional Strengthening, Construction Supervision and Training. (US$1.6 million at
Appraisal; Final: US$1.32 million, completed: June 2007). Shandong implemented this
component satisfactorily, between 2002 and 2007, in two consultancy packages.




                                                 31

                   Summary Outputs of the Project, and Parallel Investments

     City/               Sewers              WWTPs               Total: Project& Non
     Item                                                               Project
                   Project   Non-Prjct  Project     Non-Prjct     Sewers     WWTPs
                   (km)        (km)     (m3/d)       (m3/d)       (km)        (m3/d)
ANHUI
Bengbu              81          40      25,000       200,000      121.0      225,000
Bozhou              63         11.6        0         80,000        74.6       80,000
Fuyang              42         104.2       0         100,000      146.2      100,000
Guoyang             25          16      40,000         0           41.0       40,000
Huaibei             75          35         0         80,000       110.0       80,000
Huainan             115         5.4     50,000       110,000      120.4      160,000
Lu'an               80         22.1     40,000       40,000       102.1       80,000
Suzhou              60          0          0         80,000        60.0       80,000
      Subtotal      541        234.3    155,000      690,000      775.3      845,000
SHANDONG
Heze                113         n/a     80,000         0          113.0       80,000
Feicheng            70          n/a     40,000         0           70.0       40,000
Rizhao              135         n/a     100,000        0          135.0      100,000
Juxian              45          n/a        0         40,000        45.0       40,000
Chengwu              0          0       20,000         0             0        20,000
      Subtotal     363*         n/a     240,000      40,000       363.0      280,000
          Total     896         n/a     395,000      730,000      1,130.3    1,125,000

n/a- not available




                                            32

                            Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis

                          CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project

Economic Performance of the Project

The project objective was: "The project will support Government efforts to upgrade water
quality in the Huai River Basin (one of the most polluted river systems in China), in particular in
the provinces of Anhui and Shandong. This objective would be achieved through improved
collection and treatment of wasterwater in a number of municipalities in the two provinces in a
sustainable manner". This included provision of wastewater collection and treatment facilities;
development of efficient wastewater companies through improved autonomy, increased capacity,
financial performance and the improved management of facilities. The project financed a total of
eight WWTPs and a large network of sewers (about 900 km) in twelve cities in two provinces to
collect wastewater for a total of sixteen WWTPs. The project-financed networks maximized
utilization of the capacity that was in the process of being created, and reduced pollution
discharges to the Basin Rivers.

The project was expected to contribute about 20% pollution reduction in the short-term. It was
assumed that it would not be possible to significantly improve water quality and reach the
targeted standards. This was because continuing efforts would be required to reduce both point
and non-point source pollution, including the reduction of industrial pollution which was being
addressed as a complementary activity by the respective provinces. The Shandong component
included wastewater treatment in one paper mill. This represented the only project intervention
in industrial pollution reduction.

Justification and Benefits. Economic justification of the project was based on cost effectiveness;
the economic rate of return was not calculated. Instead, each sub-project was assessed based on
development impact (its likely contribution to achieving the primary development objective) and
using least cost analysis, with least cost options selected in every case.

Least cost analysis was undertaken before appraisal, and during preparation of detailed designs.
Least costs were assessed for the various technical solutions available, including: wastewater
interception ratio; realistic population projections; water demand and wastewater generation
projections; the number, size and site of the WWTPs, including phasing to correspond to
expected wastewater flows; quality of wastewater, treatment options and discharge standards to
be met; pipe network alignments and optimum hydraulic conditions; and sludge disposal.

The feasibility studies and detailed designs compared feasible options based on capital and
operational costs, the amount of pollution that would be removed, water quality outcomes, and
site locations that minimized resettlement and displacement of people. Chosen least cost
solutions were based on the present value of the investment for the maximum environmental
impact that could be achieved, including operating costs and the precautions not to create excess
treatment capacity due to uncertain wastewater flows. At project completion (or soon thereafter),
all WWTPs in Anhui were operating at near capacity, except in Bozhou, and all WWTPs in
Shandong were operating at between 70% to 80% capacity.




                                                  33

Class 1B discharge standard was judged to be the least cost treatment option. However, for some
cities in Shandong to comply with the water quality requirements mandated for the south-north
water transfer project the treatment was subsequently upgraded to Class 1A, with own funding.
To date, the Class 1B discharge standard has been adopted for the WWTPs in the eight project
cities in Anhui. Pollution discharges in project cities were reduced as illustrated in the below.

                 Table 4.1: Project Benefits: Reduction of Pollution Discharges

                      Total Pollution Generated        2010 Pollution Reduction        Actual Pollution Reduction
                      in 2010 in the Absence of           Target by Project &            by Loan Closure (2008)
                      the Project Investments26         Associated Investments

                       BOD t/d         COD t/d          BOD t/d         COD t/d          BOD t/d          COD t/d

    ANHUI

    Huaibei         23.0            43.0              14.4            24.0             7.9             19.2

    Bengbu*         60.0            113.0             18.0            30.0             NA              NA

    Huainan*        32.0            59.0              18.0            30.0             NA              NA

    Fuyang*         30.0            56.0              18.0            30.0             NA              NA

    Bozhou          15.0            29.0              14.4            24.0             4.3             7.8

    Suzhou          32.0            60.0              7.2             12.0             NA              NA

    Lu'an*          32.0            60.0              7.2             12.0             NA              NA

    Guoyang         13.0            25.0              7.2             12.0             2.2             4.5

    Total           229.0           430.0             111.6           186.0            14.4            31.5

    SHANDONG

    Feicheng        15.0            34.0              6.8             13.2             5.6             12.40

    Heze            23.0            64.0              7.7             15.3             6.34            14.49

    Rizhao          78.0            156.0             26.0            52.0             27.00           53.00

    Ju County       75.0            42.0              6.8             15.2             7.00            17.30

    Total           191.0           295.0             47.3            95.7             45.94           97.19

*Note: NA=not available; there is no statistical data available for actual pollution reduction in the first half year of
2008 for Bengbu, Huainan, Fuyang, Suzhou and Lu'an


The PAD projected a COD reduction of 2,400 tons/yr by 2010, after improvements at the
Chengwu Paper Mill (Shandong). By end 2007, the total COD reduction achieved was 2,200
tons/yr. For Anhui, a targeted COD reduction of 67,890 ton/yr (equivalent 186.0 ton/d) by 2010,
was projected in the PAD. After the project implementation and improvements of all WWTPs in
the end of 2007, the total COD reduction achieved in six project cities, excluding Fuyang and
Lu'an where data was not available, was 207,530 ton/yr (equivalent to 569 ton/d), which is
significantly higher than the set target.

26Projections made at project appraisal



                                                          34

All project components have been constructed as appraised (except Rizhao where the revised
component was also justified as a least cost solution), at lower than envisaged cost and with the
primary development objective also having been met. It is therefore reasonable to conclude that
the economic benefits from the project are at least as great as were assumed at appraisal and
probably greater, due to the additional works that were undertaken from loan savings.

Though not quantified, the direct economic benefits from the project are: (a) improved water
quality downstream of the urban areas, including irrigation and public health benefits for
downstream river users; (b) improved public health in urban areas due to improved wastewater
collection; (c) savings by industries that now discharge to municipal sewers as it is now only
necessary to pre-treat rather than fully treat wastewater prior to discharge in order to meet
standards; (d) increased land values in the urban areas; and (e) permanent and temporary job
creation during construction and operation phases, on which normal economic multipliers can be
applied.

An additional benefit to the physical infrastructure improvements was the establishment of
autonomous wastewater companies, introduction of wastewater tariffs and the principle of cost
recovery; all of which have contributed to the improvement and sustainability of wastewater
services in the project cities. However, financial viability was only achieved partially, as
approximately half the wastewater companies still require government subsidies to meet their
debt-servicing payments.

In addition the Project has provided a major indirect economic benefit by facilitating the
continued expansion of the Feicheng, Heze and Rizhao municipalities in an environmentally
sustainable manner. The expansion of these municipalities is part of China's response to rural-to-
urban migration pressure, which is itself consistent with the country's economic development
strategy.

Key assumptions made at appraisal that potentially could have adversely affected the economic
performance of the project appear to have proved robust. These include population growth,
wastewater flows and the optimum size of the WWTP.

Financial Performance of the Project

The financial justification of the Project at appraisal was not made by the traditional method
normally used for "revenue generating" sub-components. That is, there was no comparison of the
estimated financial rate of return (FRR) with the weighted average cost of capital (WACC). It
was argued in the PAD that because of the circumstances of the Project the calculation of the
FRR was not a meaningful exercise. Instead the financial viability of the sub-components was
appraised based on an assessment of the long-term financial sustainability of the PIUs.

Wastewater revenue collection in both Provinces was satisfactory. Efforts made by some WCs to
improve their finances through the collection of charges from self-supply industries were
partially successful. Feicheng achieved a reasonable collection rate (75%), and collection rates in
the other cities ranged from 10% (Juxian) to 30% (Rizhao). Among project cities in Anhui,
Bengbu, Huainan and Lu'an have not implemented charges to self-supply industry water users



                                                  35

yet. Huaibei achieved a reasonable collection rate of 76% in 2005 and improved to 79% in 2006.
The collection performance in other cities indicated a range from 7% in Guoyang to 66% in
Bozhou in 2005, somewhat improving to 18% in Guoyang to 70% in Fuyang in 2006.

Anhui Province WCs

In five out of eight cities, sufficient wastewater revenues are generated for the wastewater
companies to satisfy operation and maintenance requirements, and debt-servicing in 2007. The
three remaining cities, Guoyang, Suzhou and Fuyang, depend on special subsidies from their
respective Finance Bureaus to meet revenue shortfalls. Local governments will increase tariffs
gradually to ensure the WC's sustainable operations.

Shandong Province WCs

All four cities generated sufficient wastewater revenues for the wastewater companies to meet
their financial obligations for O&M and most of the debt-servicing in 2006. There was also an
operating surplus in two cases in Shandong. Financial projections prepared for the Shandong
WCs indicate in each case that operating surpluses will again be generated in 2007 without any
further tariff increase, and that operating surpluses can be sustained over at least a 5-year period
with only modest tariff increases. Financial projections are provided at the end of this Annex.

Since appraisal, each city has made a series of tariff increases such that the 2007 tariffs are at
least as high, and in some cases, higher than was assumed at appraisal.

           Table 4.2: Summary Wastewater Tariff History in Project Cities (Y/m3)

                          At Appraisal         2003                         2007
                                                             2003                         2007
           City            (as stated in    Assumed at                 Assumed at
                                                            Actual                       Actual
                               PAD)         time of PAD                time of PAD

    Shandong Component

    Feicheng              0.21             0.40           0.40         0.57            0.8

    Heze                  0.38             0.38           0.40         0.71            0.8

    Juxian                Not stated       Not stated     0.27         Not stated      0.8

    Rizhao                0.25             0.25           0.27         0.66            0.8

    Anhui Component

    Bengbu                0.35             0.69           0.38         0.69            0.67

    Bozhou                0.34             1.02           0.38         1.59            0.77

    Fuyang                0.43             1.16           0.38         1.37            0.51

    Guoyang               0.35             0.35           0.38         1.56            0.35



                                                  36

    Huaibei                0.35                 0.70               0.35           0.77              0.67

    Huainan                0.34                 0.34               0.38           0.79              0.68

    Lu'an                  0.35                 0.35               0.38           0.35              0.35

    Suzhou                 0.35                 0.35               0.30           0.86              0.60


Note: The above tariffs are broad averages - different rates apply to domestic, industrial and commercial customers.


In each city the local water supply company collects the wastewater tariffs on their water supply
bill. Self-supply industrial customers are normally billed by the local water resource office. All
proceeds from the wastewater tariff, collected by the water supply company, are remitted
initially to the local Finance Bureau, and in most cases, this revenue is remitted in full to the
wastewater company. Income collection performance achieved by each water supply company
is satisfactory. However, the collection of charges from self-supplied industries is a continuing
problem, with only Feicheng achieving a reasonable collection rate (75%) and collection rates in
the other cities ranging from 15% (Juxian) to 30% (Rizhao) in Shandong. In Anhui, the project
cities of Bengbu, Huainan and Lu'an have not yet implemented charges to self-supplied
industries. Huaibei achieved a reasonable collection rate of 76% in 2005 which improved to 79%
in 2006. The collection performance in other cities indicated a range from 7% in Guoyang to
66% in Bozhou in 2005. This improved to 18% in Guoyang to 70% in Fuyang in 2006. Further
details on historical collection rates and accounts receivables are provided in Table 4.3 below.
Although it may be argued that the continued involvement of the local Finance Bureau is diluting
the financial autonomy of the wastewater companies, this, in effect, is not the case as the
arrangement is merely one by which funds pass through the company. This is primarily done for
regulatory reasons stipulated by the Chinese Ministry of Finance. However, it has the potential
advantage of allowing local government administrative action to be used in support of the
income collection process.

              Table 4.3: Shandong: Accounts Receivable and Tariff Collection Rate
                                Feicheng                 Heze                 Rizhao                Juxian
             City
                             2005      2006        2005        2006      2005       2006        2005      2006
    Accounts Receivables
                            47        46         50          118        60         55          45       45
    (days)
    Collection rate
                            -         80%        -           99%        -          94%         -        95%
    Water Supply Co
    Collection Rate
                            -         75%        -           15%        -          30%         -        10%
    Self Supplies




                                                         37

                     Table 4.4: Anhui: Accounts Receivable and Tariff Collection Rate
              Huaibei     Bengbu       Huainan       Fuyang        Bozhou         Suzhou        Guoyang       Lu'an
            2005  2006  2005   2006  2005   2006  2005   2006    2005   2006   2005   2006    2005   2006  2005   2006
Accounts
Receivables 86.0   59.5 55.5   80.8  57.1   50.2  90.4    58.8  144.4    72.1  113.6  100.2   260.2  127.1 68.0   42.7
  (days)
Collection
Rate Water  68%    51%  84%    93%   89%    88%   84%     84%    63%     69%    77%    59%    41%    65%   95%    93%
Supply Co
Collection
Rate Self   76%    79%   --     --    --     --   29%     70%    66%     68%    21%    18%     7%    18%    --     --
 Supplies


     Capacity Utilization

     The WWTPs in Anhui Province are operating at nearly 90% capacity, (except Guoyang which is
     operating at about 50% capacity, where the city's major industry has decided to construct its own
     treatment facility), and between 70% and 80% in Shandong Province. This level of capacity
     utilization at commissioning is considered highly satisfactory for the two Provinces, and is
     significantly higher than the national average.

                         Table 4.5: Anhui: Capacity Utilization (at June 30, 2008)

                                  City                               Current Utilization

                                Bengbu                                       97%

                                Bozhou                                       85%

                               Fuyang27                                      90%

                               Guoyang                                       50%

                                Huaibei                                      92%

                               Huainan                                       93%

                                 Lu'an                                       81%

                                Suzhou                                       82%




     27 Fuyang WWTP is currently managed and operation by Tianjin Capital Environmental Protection Group Company
     Limited (TCEPGC).



                                                        38

                      Table 4.6: Shandong: Capacity Utilization (at June 30, 2008)

     City                                Current              Current              Unit Cost at
                                       Utilization           Unit Cost          Full Utilisation

     Feicheng                              80%                  0.65                  0.54

     Heze                                  75%                  0.5                   0.49

     Juxian                                73%                  0.25                  0.29

     Rizhao                                76%                  0.39                  0.32


Financial Projections (Compliance with Financial Covenants)

Financial projections/compliance with financial covenants, prepared for all the WCs in both
provinces are available in the Project File, and are summarized in the series of tables below.

ANHUI PROVINCE WCs

                   Table 4.7A: Bengbu Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

         Item\Year           2001     2002    2003  2004   2005    2006   2007   2008    2009   2010

  BENGBU WC

  I Tariff Revenue           23.15    23.01  20.00  26.15  32.38   32.48  29.47  32.00   33.00  33.00

  II Operating expenses        -       -        -    8.03   8.76   10.63  11.40  12.31   13.30  14.36

  III Debt service            0.80    1.50    3.50   6.81   6.09    9.13  12.28  12.60   10.00  10.00

  IV Depreciation              -       -        -    9.21   9.07   10.16  12.60  12.60   12.70  12.80

  Net Income                 23.15    23.01  20.00   8.61  14.55   11.69   5.47   7.09    7.00   5.84

  Debt service coverage
  ratio
                             28.94    15.34   5.71   2.62   3.88    2.39   1.47   1.56    1.97   1.86
  (net income/ total debt
  service)




                  Table 4.7B: Huainan Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

            Item\Year             2001  2002 2003  2004   2005    2006   2007   2008    2009   2010

    HUAINAN WC

    I Tariff Revenue              5.13  6.15 6.57  12.22  31.49   28.60  30.45  31.97  32.30   32.96

    II Operating expenses          -      -    -    -     15.96   15.46  17.61  17.88  18.77   19.71

    III Debt service               -    0.80 0.80  1.24   2.18    4.71   7.21   7.88    9.42   9.83

    IV Depreciation                -      -    -    -      -       -      -      -     11.63   11.63

    Net Income                    5.13  6.15 6.57  12.22  15.53   13.14  12.84  14.09   1.91   1.63

    Debt service coverage ratio
    (net income/ total debt        -    7.69 8.21  9.89   7.12    2.79   1.78   1.79    1.44   1.35
    service)




                                                        39

                        Table 4.7C: Huaibei Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

          Item\Year                 2001       2002       2003       2004        2005       2006   2007       2008       2009        2010

HUAIBEI WC

I Tariff Revenue                    2.25       2.23        5.56      5.93       16.59       17.79  19.97     20.30      20.60       21.20

II Operating expenses                 -          -          -        1.80        6.00       9.00   9.00      10.50      11.40       11.40

III Debt service                    0.41       1.14        1.12      2.79        2.55       7.16   8.10       8.10       8.10        8.10

IV Depreciation                       -          -          -          -         5.52       5.57   5.61       7.11       8.61        8.61

Net Income                          2.55       2.23        5.56      0.11        4.57       2.72   4.86       2.19       0.09        0.69

Debt service coverage ratio
(net income/ total debt             6.22       1.96        4.96      1.30        3.96       1.16   1.29       1.15       1.07        1.15
service)




                        Table 4.7D: Fuyang Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

          Item\Year                 2001       2002       2003       2004        2005       2006   2007       2008       2009        2010

FUYANG WC

I Tariff Revenue                    4.25       5.05        5.37      6.33       10.50       14.22  16.19     18.92      26.00       30.00

II Operating expenses                 -          -          -        5.08        5.11       19.16  24.64     24.71      27.38       27.38

III Debt service                      -        0.04        0.68      1.47        1.44       3.30   2.96       2.90       2.90        2.90

IV Depreciation                       -          -          -          -           -          -      -          -          -          -

Net Income                          4.25       5.05        5.37      1.24        5.39       -4.95  -8.44      -5.78      -1.38       2.63

Debt service coverage ratio
(net income/ total debt               -       129.5        7.85      0.85        3.74       -1.50  -2.86      -1.99      -0.47       0.91
service)
Note: Tariff revenue is not sufficient to pay the service fee to the TCEPGC since 2006, not along the depreciation or debt service. Therefore, it
should be adjusted. At this stage, the Fuyang Municipal Government plans to provide subsidies to cover O&M and service debt. In the meantime,
it plans to gradually close the self-supply wells and further improve collection efficiency.




                        Table 4.7E: Bozhou Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

          Item\Year                 2001       2002       2003       2004        2005       2006   2007       2008       2009        2010

BOZHOU WC

I Tariff Revenue                    0.39       1.12        1.04      1.73        2.82       2.74   5.50       7.30       8.00        8.00

II Operating expenses                 -          -          -          -           -        1.00   3.00       3.00       3.00        3.00

III Debt service                      -        0.24        0.27      0.36        0.96       1.35   2.15       4.10       4.35        4.35

IV Depreciation                       -          -          -          -           -          -    2.40       2.50       3.60        3.60

Net Income                          0.39       1.12        1.04      1.73        2.82       1.74   0.10       1.80       1.40        1.40

Debt service coverage ratio
(net income/ total debt               -        4.65        3.88      4.80        2.92       1.29   1.16       1.05       1.15        1.15
service)




                                                                        40

                        Table 4.7F: Suzhou Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

          Item\Year                 2001      2002       2003        2004       2005       2006        2007      2008       2009       2010

SUZHOU WC

I Tariff Revenue                    2.33      2.51       3.62        5.96       5.95       6.76        8.37       9.43     14.50       16.10

II Operating expenses                 -         -          -         1.61       2.77       2.85        7.50       7.50      9.59       10.11

III Debt service                      -       0.41       0.41        0.45       0.30       3.28        3.30       3.05      3.10        3.10

IV Depreciation                       -         -          -         3.72       4.65       4.65        4.66       4.67      7.67        7.67

Net Income                          2.33      2.51       3.62        0.43       -1.67      -0.74      -3.79      -2.74      -2.76      -1.68

Debt service coverage ratio
(net income/ total debt               -       6.16       8.82        9.17      10.07       1.19        0.26       0.63      1.58        1.93
service)
Note: Tariff revenues can recover O&M costs and a portion of depreciation or debt service. Although the net income has turned negative since
2005, it is able to cover debt service requirements throughout the projection period, except for 2007 and 2008.




                         Table 4.7G: Lu'an Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

                 Item\Year               2001   2002      2003      2004      2005       2006       2007        2008      2009        2010

      LU'AN WC

      I Tariff Revenue                   5.51   5.02      5.17      5.39      7.63       12.10      12.80      13.89     14.74       15.62

      *Pipeline Construction
                                           -      -         -         -         -          -         6.00       9.92     10.00       10.00
      Revenue

      II Operating expenses                -      -         -         -         -        6.00        6.00       6.00      6.00        6.00

      III Debt service                   0.20   0.74      0.32      0.74      1.15       9.87       10.56      10.30     10.61       10.93

      IV Depreciation                      -      -         -         -         -        2.32        2.98       5.17      6.01        9.10

      Net Income                         5.51   5.02      5.17      5.39      7.63       3.78        9.82      12.64     12.73       10.52

      Debt service coverage ratio
                                         27.0
      (net income/ total debt                   6.78      16.07     7.27      6.65       0.62        1.21       1.73      1.77        1.80
                                          0
      service)
*Note Pipeline construction fees have been collected as a portion of revenue by Lu'an Water Company since 2007.




                       Table 4.7H: Guoyang Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

                 Item\Year               2001   2002      2003       2004        2005       2006       2007       2008     2009       2010

      GUOYANG WC

      I Tariff Revenue                   0.79   0.71      0.76       0.80        1.04        1.43      1.45       2.61     3.20       3.20

      II Operating expenses                -      -         -        0.42        0.45        0.88      1.86       2.13     2.10       2.10

      III Debt service                     -    0.59      0.58       0.81        1.18        2.43      1.32       1.13     1.00       1.00

      IV Depreciation                      -      -         -          -           -          -          -          -        -         -

      Net Income                         0.79   0.71      0.76       0.38        0.59        0.55      -0.41      0.28     0.90       0.90

      Debt service coverage ratio
      (net income/ total debt              -    1.20      1.31       0.47        0.50        0.23      -0.31      0.25     0.90       0.90
      service)
Note: Tariff revenue can recover O&M costs during the projection period except in 2007, mainly due to low collection performance. Anhui
Provincial Finance Bureau provides a special subsidy to the county level wastewater treatment plants at Y 3 million per year for every
10,000m3/d treatment capacity since 2008. The municipality will impose discharge fees to the three major industrial factories that discharge
wastewater into the WWTP for centralized treatment. It will also apply wastewater tariffs to self- supplied customers. By providing some
subsidies, it is expected the company can comply with O&M and debt-servicing after 2008.




                                                                        41

SHANDONG PROVINCE WCs

                   Table 4.8A: Rizhao Wastewater Company (Unit: Yuan million)

       Item\Year            2007     2008     2009     2010      2011      2012       2013      2014        2015

RIZHAO WC

B. Total Revenues          18.8083   19.50    19.80    19.80     19.80     19.80     19.80      19.80      19.80
C. Operation &
                           11.30     11.50    11.60    11.60     11.60     11.60     11.60      11.60      11.60
Maintenance Expenses

D. Depreciation Expense     6.79      6.90    6.95      6.95     6.95      6.95       6.95       6.95       6.95

E. Debt Service Payment     4.40      6.70    6.70      6.70     6.70      6.70       6.70       6.70       6.70
F. Change in Working
Capital Other Than          0.70      0.70    0.80      0.80     0.80      0.80       0.80       0.80       0.80
Minimum Cash




                                Table 4.8B: Juxian Wastewater Company

             Item\Year          2007    2008   2009    2010    2011    2012     2013      2014       2015

    JUXIAN WC

    B. Total Revenues           4.28    4.42   4.70    6.06   6.251    6.452    6.653     6.854       7.14
    C. Operation &
                                2.70    2.80   3.00    3.20   330.00   3.50     3.80       4.00       4.22
    Maintenance Expenses

    D. Depreciation Expense     1.12    1.15   1.15    1.15    1.15    1.15     1.15       1.15       1.15

    E. Debt Service Payment
    F. Change in Working
    Capital Other Than          0.20    0.20   0.20    0.30    0.30    0.30     0.30       0.30       0.30
    Minimum Cash




                              Table 4.8C: Feicheng Wastewater Company

           Item\Year            2007    2008   2009    2010    2011    2012      2013      2014       2015

    FEICHENG WC

    B. Total Revenues         13.9316 14.3050 15.5700 15.5700 16.4700 16.4700   16.4700   16.4700    16.4700
    C. Operation &
                               6.670   7.524  7.722   7.722   7.920    7.920    7.920      7.920     7.920
    Maintenance Expenses

    D. Depreciation Expense     3.79    4.08   4.08    4.08    4.08     4.08     4.08      4.08       4.08

    E. Debt Service Payment
    F. Change in Working
    Capital Other Than          0.80    0.80   0.80    0.80    1.00     1.00     1.00      1.00       1.00
    Minimum Cash




                                                     42

                                 Table 4.8D: Heze Wastewater Company

             Item\Year        2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014    2015

     HEZE WC

     B. Total Revenues       26.7910 27.6240 27.3585 27.7788 28.1480 28.4079 28.4079 28.5440 28.5440
     C. Operation &
                              10.980 12.500  12.500  13.000  13.500  13.800  14.000  14.200  14.200
     Maintenance Expenses

     D. Depreciation Expense  3.500   4.800  5.600   5.600   5.600    5.600   5.600  5.600    5.600

     E. Debt Service Payment
     Total Debt Service
     Payment                  13.533 13.2376 12.9422 12.6468 12.3514 12.0559 11.7605 11.4651 11.1697
     F. Change in Working
     Capital Other Than       0.800   0.800  0.800   0.800   0.900    0.900   0.900  0.900    0.900
     Minimum Cash


Assumptions Made

The calculations and conclusions described in this Annex are based on information provided by
the individual project implementing units (the PIUs).

It is assumed that no major extension to the wastewater facilities will be needed in any of the
cities during the period to 2015, or will be funded from an expanded revenue base. The only
possible exception to this is Juxian where there is a potential requirement to upgrade the WWTP
to full secondary treatment.




                                                    43

       Annex 5: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
                   CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project



                                 Task Team Members


       Names                 Title               Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
                                          China Department,
                    Senior Municipal
Edouard Motte                             Urban Environment Municipal Engineering
                    Engineer
                                               Division
Jaraslov Kozel      Sanitary Engineer        Consultant      Sanitary
Johanngeorg
                    Financial Specialist     Consultant      Financial Analysis
Renkewitz
                    Financial Management   Resident Mission,
Tony Shen                                                    Financial Management
                    Specialist                  China
                                            Development
Hua Wang            Economist                                Economic Analysis
                                         Research Department
Wu Ning             Financial Analyst        Consultant      Financial Analysis
                    Senior Procurement     Resident Mission,
Liu Zhentu                                                   Procurement
                    Specialist                  China
                    Resettlement           Resident Mission,
Youlan Zou                                                   Resettlement / Social
                    Specialist                  China
                    Environmental          Resident Mission,
Chongwu Sun                                                  Environment
                    Specialist                  China
Margaret Png        Counsel                Legal Department  Legal
Supervision/ICR
                    Lead Management                          TTL/Institutional
Raja Iyer                                  EAP Urban Unit
                    Specialist                               Analysis
                                           Resident Mission, TTL/Financial Analysis
Shenhua Wang        Financial Specialist
                                                China        (since 11/01/06)
                    Senior Environmental   Resident Mission,
Chongwu Sun                                                  Environment
                    Specialist                  China
                                           Resident Mission,
Chaogang Wang       Social Specialist                        Social Development
                                                China
                    Resettlement           Resident Mission,
Youlan Zou                                                   Resettlement
                    Specialist                  China
                                           Resident Mission,
David I             FM Specialist                            Financial Management
                                                China
                    Senior Procurement     Resident Mission,
Liu Zhentu                                                   Sociology
                    Specialist                  China
                                           Resident Mission,
Yi Dong             FM Specialist                            Financial Management
                                                China



                                         44

                                         Resident Mission,
Mingyuan Fan       Municipal Engineer                      Engineering
                                              China
                                         Resident Mission,
Xiuru Huang        Program Assistant                       Financial/Institutional
                                              China
Margaret Png       Legal Specialist        EAP Legal       Legal
Robert Leonard
                   FM Specialist       Loan Administration Financial Management
O'Leary
                                         Resident Mission,
Xuemei Guo         Program Assistant                       Team Assistant
                                              China
                   Social/Resettlement   Resident Mission, Social, Land Acquisition
Jun Zeng
                   Specialist                 China        and Resettlement
Chandra Godavitarne Municipal Engineer     Consultant      Engineering
Miki Endo          Operations Officer    EAP Urban Unit    Project Management
Vellet Fernandes   Program Assistant     EAP Urban Unit    Program Assistant




                                       45

                              Annex 6: Summary of Borrower's ICR
                         CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project



Summary of Borrower's ICR: Anhui Province

Original Objectives
Reference is made to the World Bank Project Appraisal Report (PAD), No. 4597-CHA, February
28, 2001. The project's development objective was: "The project will support Government
efforts to upgrade water quality in the Huai River Basin (one of the most polluted river systems
in China), in particular in the provinces of Anhui and Shandong. This objective would be
achieved through improved collection and treatment of wasterwater in a number of
municipalities in the two provinces in a sustainable manner".

Progress in meeting the development objective was to be measured in terms of: (a) treatment of
wastewater in the project-financed (and other) wastewater treatment plants up to capacity; and
(b) institutional development and financial viability of newly established wastewater treatment
companies.

Revised Objectives
There was no revision to the major objectives as originally determined throughout the project
implementation period. There were substantial loan savings during the early part of project
implementation. As a result, during the mid-term review of the project (AHPCP), a number of
works were proposed and added to the original project in order to increase the original treatment
level and capacity and to complete the original design of works.

Original Components
The original components of AHPCP consist of three components which are wastewater
investment, Anhui Provincial Monitoring Center, and Technical Assistance and Training;
The project also supported policy and institutional reforms to establish well performing and
sustainable wastewater agencies and to provide financing for wastewater collection system and
treatment plants.

(A) Wastewater Investment
This component financed investments for construction of wastewater treatment systems in eight
municipalities, i.e., Bengbu, Bozhou, Fuyang, Guoyang, Huaibei, Huainan, Luan and Suzhou.
The investments included: (a) 630 km sewer network, including secondary sewers and house
connections (branch sewers), interceptors, pumping stations and transmission mains; (b) 27
pumping stations; and (c) 2 wastewater treatment plants with 40,000 m3 per day.


A summary description of the construction of wastewater treatment system in eight project cites
is given below.




                                                46

                      Secondary                      Pumping       Pumping      Treatment
                                    Interceptors
          City           Sewers                       Mains         Stations       Plants
                                         (km)
                          (km)                         (km)          (Unit)        (m3/d)

    Bengbu            28.5          70.4            1.5           5             --

    Bozhou            10.0          58.3            --            4             --

    Fuyang            10.0          81.7            3.0           4             --

    Guoyang           35.0          36.1            --            1             40,000

    Huaibei           28.5          70.4            --            5             --

    Huainan           39.0          48.6            2.6           4             --

    Lu'an             5.0           28.3            2.4           3             40,000

    Suzhou            22.0          47.6            0.5           3             --

    Total             178           441.4           10            27            80,000


(B) Anhui Environmental Monitoring Centre


This component supported strengthening the capacity of the Anhui Environmental Monitoring
Centre (AEMC) by:

(a) upgrading the equipment in AEMC and other laboratories in the project cities; and
(b) providing vehicles for field sampling, and improving technical and managerial skills of staff.

(C) Technical Assistance and Training

This component included the Technical Assistances (TA) for institutional development of
municipal sewerage companies of the project cities and construction management, as well
domestic and overseas training for staff of above companies and other relevant project agencies.

Revised Components
During the mid-term review, a number of new works with close relation to the original project
components were added. There were some revisions and additions to the institutional
strengthening and training component as well. All those revisions and additions were subject to
the discussions with the World Bank supervision missions. The revised and additional
components as approved had been recorded in the World Bank's Aide Memoires.

After the mid-term review, overall project components included about 580 km of sewer network,
32 pumping stations and four wastewater treatment plants, comprising two of 40,000 m3/d
capacity each, one 50,000 m3/d and one 25,000 m3/d capacity.



                                                47

The additional components included to utilize loan savings from the AHPCP included:

(a) construction of an additional 25,000 m3/d WWTP, 36.5 km of associated sewer network, and
a pumping station in Bengbu City;
(b) construction of an additional 50,000 m3/d WWTP, 27 km of associated sewer network, and
three pumping stations in Huainan City;
(c) construction of 3 pumping stations, one sewer network monitoring building and 40 km of
additional sewer network in the new development area of Lu'an City; and
(d) technical assistance and training for the additional components.

Quality at Entry
Quality at entry at project appraisal proved to be largely satisfactory. The objective of project
was consistent with the mid-term and long-term development of the national and municipal
governments. The integration and system of Huai River pollution control was considered
significantly in the project design, which was also adequately combined with the former project
experience conducted in China by the World Bank.

Quality at entry was affected by the higher cost estimates, incomplete economic assessment, and
underestimate of likely difficulties in the institutional reforms and system restructuring. During
the mid-term review, there were some revisions and additions to the components. However, the
above revisions and additional components did not result in an overall change of the project; nor
was it necessary to change any policies or strategies of the World Bank.

Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

Outcome/Achievement of Objectives
The project is highly significant to the improvement of Huai River basin pollution. By the end of
July, 2008, 541km of sewer network, 31 pumping stations and two WWTPs of 40,000 m3/d
capacity and one WWTP of 50,000 m3/d were completed .The total cost to completion was about
RMB 0.77 billion, comprising about 97.0% of the original estimate. All the loan proceeds
allocated to the Anhui component were utilized by loan closure.

The wastewater collection ratio and the wastewater treatment capacity have improved
significantly in the eight project cities. The municipal sewerage companies have completed
institutional reforms, and have been autonomous companies operating on a commercial basis.
Monitoring instruments and equipment and vehicles for field sampling have been procured in the
AEMC which have been used to build the provincial environmental information system.

Outputs by Components
See Annex 3

Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return
The net present value and economic rate of return of the overall sub-components was not
calculated during appraisal.




                                                  48

Financial Rate of Return
At present, wastewater tariff collection of eight municipal sewerage companies is in charge of
their respective government administration, which makes allocation of budgets to the companies
per their financial needs for the normal operation and debt service. Under this system, the
management of tariff collection and disposal belong to institution system instead of corporation
system. From the financial point of view, WCs are not financial entities which can take full
responsibility for their own profits and losses, and account independently. Therefore, it is
difficult to calculate the financial internal rate of return for all the municipal sewage companies.

Institutional Development Impact
The eight project cities have established municipal sewerage companies with independent
business operations for institutional development per the operations requirement. Each company
schedules, respectively, the business plan, operation and financial projection report per the
World Bank's requirement. The technical assistance specialists had a positive impact on the
institutional development in the municipal sewerage companies with a great deal of professional
training and technical guidance for financial and operational management. Each company set
reasonable targets with corresponding staffs, developed and established company's rules and
regulations and trained a batch of core members of operation of wastewater treatment plants,
which strengthened the operation and administration ability of wastewater treatment plants and
municipal sewerage companies, as well as laid a good foundation for the sustainability
development of the municipal sewerage companies for the future.

Wastewater tariffs were introduced in the municipal sewerage companies in the eight project
cities. The collection percentage and rate of tariff increase have also increased gradually. At
present, except Suzhou, Fuyang and Guoyang, the average tariff has increased to a level of
Y0.80/m3, and is anticipated to meet the requirement of the World Bank in other five project
cities. It is projected that there will be a continuing increase in tariffs shortly before long.

The management model has been changed significantly in wastewater treatment plant
management. The WWTPs of the three cities of Guoyang, Lu'an and Huaibei are being managed
by the municipal WCs. The management of five WWTPs has been outsourced to private
operators.

Technical assistance for institutional capacity development and training was provided in the
following contract packages and services:
·        Financial management service and training(Package A)
·        Technology management service and training(Package B)
·        Individual specialist consulting service
·        Technology management service and training (Package C)
·        Technology management service and training (Package C Extension)


The management unit (the employer) of above technical assistance package A,B ,C and package
C extension and individual consulting service contracts was the Anhui Provincial Management
Office(i.e., APMO). The technical assistance package A supported the PIUs in financial



                                                   49

management, and made it possible for them to computerize financial management. It also
provided training in financial management, accounting practice, development of operation plans
and appraisal, and assisted the PIUs to implement the wastewater tariff collection. Technical
assistance package B, C and individual consulting service contracts provided design review,
procurement and construction supervision management and the relevant domestic and overseas
training during the project implementation, which was helpful to ensure that project procurement
and disbursement was in accordance with procedures and requirements of the World Bank, and
would facilitate satisfactory implementation and outputs. Technical assistance package C
extension continued the consulting service of package B and C and provided technology service
of project management for the original and additional components up to the extended loan
closing date.

Poverty Reduction and Social Development
In addition to the main objective of environmental improvement, there were significant social
benefits. In project areas, over six hundred permanent jobs have been provided in the drainage
companies and many temporary jobs were created during the construction of project, supporting
for the local economic development. Construction of collection sewers enabled co-
implementation of some urban road projects. Over five million people are benefiting from the
environmental improvements, resulting from increased wastewater service coverage and
reliability, and from the establishment and improvement of the sewerage system in eight project
cities. The expanded sewerage connection service and wastewater treatment systems have
improved the condition of the poor communities. In conclusion, project implementation
facilitated local economic development, community stabilization and employment opportunities.

Environmental Improvement
The mitigation of water pollution of Huai River will benefit the residents in both project cities
and in rural areas downstream of the project area, in terms of health, hygiene and agriculture
production, etc.

Project implementation resulted in increased sewage interception, and controlled the
deteriorating trend in several tributaries of Huai River such as Guo River, Songtang River, Mo
River, Ying River and Pi River in Anhui Province, and made the water quality improve
gradually, which can be seen from the monitoring indicator data detailed in Annex 8.

The establishment of Anhui Provincial Environmental Monitoring Center significantly
strengthened provincial monitoring ability and facilitated improvement of the level of
supervision on environmental monitoring.

Effect of Land Requisition and Resettlement
The PIUs provided reasonable compensation to the affected people for the land acquisition and
resettlement, in accordance the World Bank's requirements and State Government's
compensation standards for land acquisition.
External monitoring, made by Hefei Coal Mining Scientific Research Institute indicated that the
standard of living of resettled residents is higher than before resettlement, and that compensation
for land requisition and resettlement was paid on time to the affected people.




                                                  50

The State Government and the World Bank attached more importance to the land acquisition and
resettlement, which caused the continuous upward revision of compensation rates, and extra
expenditure demanded by affected people, which impacted the project progress, especially, the
construction of wastewater networks. The detailed implementation status in eight project cities is
described in Annex 6.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Factors outside Control of Government or Implementing Agency
·       The SARS outbreak in 2003 and Bird Flu concerns in 2005 temporarily disrupted the
        construction program due to movement restrictions that were imposed. In total these
        events resulted in a delay of several months.
·       Serious floods from May to August of 2003 and in the summer of 2007 in the Huai River
        Basin in Anhui Province and snow disaster all around the nation in January 2008 also had
        a disruptive effect on the construction program, and resulted in some works to be
        suspended and others to be rescheduled.
·       The Wenchuang Earthquake in 12th May, 2008 impacted construction because many
        construction labor from Sichuan Province returned for succor, which caused temporarily
        the lack of construction capacity and impacted the project implementation progress.
·       Market price escalation of major construction materials such as steel and cement during
        2006 and the first half year of 2008, caused problems for construction progress on some
        civil works contracts which had been bid on a fixed price basis.
·       The change of the exchange rate of RMB against USD had a immediate effect on the
        disbursement of project fund, also increased the pressure on the procurement of
        counterpart
·       Unexpected adverse geological conditions caused delays in some civil works contracts.


Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
Shortage of counterpart funds
In the early project implementation period, municipalities of eight project cities did not make
adequate allocations from their local government and urban maintenance budgets to meet the
counterpart funds as required and committed, which impacted extensively the project
implementation and management. Later on, because of the availability of financing from the
China national bonds and local governments, difficulties in fund shortage were substantially
alleviated for the municipal sewage companies.

Difficulties in land requisition and resettlement
Divergence of opinion between the affected people and the implementation agencies on the cost
standard and the scope of compensation increased the expenditure for land acquisition and
resettlement, and in turn also delayed project implementation progress.




                                                 51

Change in city planning
Due to the changes of the some cities master plans, parts of pipeline networks of project cities
were not constructed on schedule, and had to be laid on the changed alignments. Some pumping
stations also had to be constructed on the new locations.

Lack of the World Bank financing project experience
Due to lack of the experience in the World Bank project procedures and competitive bidding
processes, the design institutes spent considerable time and effort preparing technical
specifications and related technical documents.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
Institutional and financial reforms
According to the PAD, institutional and financial reforms were required in the Project
Implementation Units (PIUs). However, under the China's financial system and management of
state-owned enterprises, the PIUs encountered enormous difficulties in the reforms to obtain
autonomy in tariff collection and enterprise management. It was not easy to find immediate
solutions to the problems and conflicts that confronted project entities in funding, project
implementation and long-term enterprise development, which had impacts on project
implementation.

Low bidding costs
Changes in project costs were obvious from project appraisal to tendering period. In the term of
civil works and equipment procurement, the lowest bid values were approximately 65-75% of
the cost estimated in the PAD. Due to contract variations and claims for damages, the final
values of contracts were often much higher than contract values for the civil work contracts. Due
to the requirement to award contracts to the lowest evaluated bids, additional difficulties were
encountered in project management, resulting in frequent construction delays.

Staff redeployment
Frequent staff redeployment, especially of the team leader and financial staff was not helpful for
project management, which impacted significantly on the project implementation progress and
the construction quality.

The World Bank project procedures
Unfamiliarity of design institutes and implementation agencies with the World Bank procedures
and requirements in procurement, construction management and contract management and
disbursement, delayed detailed design preparation, project implementation and disbursement
applications.

Costs and Financing
Costs
Project costs by components are shown in Annex 2, where the final project costs is compared
with project appraisal estimate in PAD. Project costs by procurement method are shown in
Annex 2. The total project cost, including interest during construction, is currently estimated at
US$139.26 million, which is about 99.56% of estimated project cost of US$139.87 million at




                                                52

appraisal. The final project cost is slightly lower than the appraisal estimate for main three
reasons:

(a) the exchange rate of RMB against USD changed significantly during the project
implementation.
(b) the physical project as implemented incorporated a number of reductions in project scope and
also some increases, as described above. This makes direct comparisons of actual with estimate
costs less than straight-forward; and
(c) because of the contract variations and delays for various reasons. the final project costs were
much higher than bid prices.

Financing

The original and revised allocation of the loan account is tabulated below:


                                                 Original                            Revised
                                Original Loan                        Revised Loan
    No.      Category                            Disbursement                        Disbursement
                                (US $ million)                       (US $ million)
                                                 Percentage (%)                      Percentage (%)

    1        Civil Work         50.30            43.5                48.99           75

    2        Goods              15.97            100                 17.28           100
             Consulting
    3        Service            3.545            100                 3.545           100
             &Training

    4        Unallocated        --                                   --

    Total                       69.815                               69.815


The necessary counterpart funds were provided through a mixture of national debt, local
government allocation, funds from tariff collection and the PIU's own resources. The final
financing split is expected to be Loan 51.16%; Government 48.84%, compared to the appraisal
split of Loan 50.94%; Government 49.06%. Annex 3 provides the detailed project financing
status.

Sustainability

Rationale for Sustainability Rating
Overall, the project can be considered sustainable; however, in the short-term there are some
transitional issues, especially, the issue of local tariff rates and collection percentages, in
particular .Sustainability would depend on: (a) the ability of staff to operate and maintain the
facilities, (b) the effectiveness of institutional measures, and (c) proper financial arrangements
that provide for financial sustainability.

It is believed that the institutional, operational and financial sustainability can be well maintained
for Bengbu, Bozhou, Huainan, Huaibei and Lu'an municipal sewerage companies. The Lu'an
municipal sewerage company has generated adequate revenue since 2006 from tariffs, to become
financially sustainable. Although sustainability can be maintained in the institutional and



                                                   53

operational aspects for Fuyang, Guoyang and Suzhou municipal sewerage company, the
sustainability was not achieved up to now, in financial terms, if operations were supported only
by respective wastewater tariff revenue and government allocation. Adequacy of the tariff rate
and collection percentage is the key issue for Fuyang, Guoyang and Suzhou municipal sewerage
company.

In order to achieve the financial sustainability, the Provincial Government has pressed local
municipal governments to introduce residential wastewater tariffs and gradually increased the
tariff of residents and other industries in accordance with national policies.
Tariff systems have been maintained in all project cities, and there were two or more tariff
increases during project implementation.

Provincial government requirements are that tariff rates are raised on a regular basis so that cost
recovery and marginal profits could be maintained. Municipal governments, who are in charge of
tariff revisions, would determine the tariff rates based on local situations and conditions. Tariff
rates and collection percentages are generally higher in large cities, while they are more
problematic in cities facing economic difficulties. The difference between them depends on the
public awareness on the importance of wastewater facilities and construction costs, as well as the
local people's affordability and willingness to pay.

At the time of preparation of this report, wastewater tariff rates have been increased as per
business plan or are on the way to be increased in the municipal sewerage companies in the eight
project cities. In terms of the mid-term and long-term runs, the collection percentage and tariff of
wastewater is expected to increase gradually, and sustainability is reasonably well assured with
the population increases and sustainable development of industry.

Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation
All major project components have been successfully operating in eight project cities in Anhui
by the fourth quarter of 2008. Staff training was given high priority to ensure a smooth transition
to regular operations and staff is well equipped with the necessary skills to operate and maintain
the facilities in the eight WCs. All WCs have short-term as well as longer-term operational plans,
linked to their five year and longer term business plans.


Bank and Borrower's Performance


Bank
The World Bank's performance during the identification, preparation and appraisal phases of the
project is considered highly satisfactory and the diligence of the Bank staff was much
appreciated by all the implementing agencies. During the project implementation period, support
was received from the Bank on utilization options of the loan savings as well as the approval of
the new additional components. The World Bank's flexible and supportive role during
supervision was of much assistance, in addition to supervision of project implementation.

The World Bank staff involved in this project were highly appreciated in terms of timely
instructions to the PIUs on the World Bank's procedures, review, comments, supervision and
approval of bid documents. A number of task managers from the World Bank had worked on this


                                                  54

project, and all of them had made valuable contributions to the successful implementation of the
project.

Borrower
The national and provincial government's commitment to the project remained strong and
supportive in all phases of the project during its inception, preparation and implementation. The
APMO, City PMOs and PIUs resumed active management functions throughout the project.
Each PIU designated necessary resources to execute the sub-component.

The APMO occupied the pivotal role in coordinating the efforts of the eight PIUs involved in the
implementation, and received high levels of cooperation. The APMO has worked hard to
improve their effectiveness, especially in the project implementation planning and project
management systems.

From 2002 to 2008, the components of eight Project Implementation Units experienced
counterpart funding difficulties, which were successfully addressed through national debt with
national government supports.

The municipal governments in the project cities have given the utmost support for the successful
implementation of the project-related land acquisition and resettlement and construction at all the
sub-component sites. During project implementation, the municipal governments assisted to
solve various issues such as mobilizing counterpart funds, auditing procedures, and institutional
reforms in departments, to facilitate significantly the project progress.

Lessons Learned
The AHPCP is an important project for the Anhui Province to significantly curb its pollution and
to create a sustainable environment for its economic and social development. The
implementation process has been a successful and valuable experience for all the Project
Implementation Units involved. Lessons have been learned in respect of physical
implementation, project management and in the process of institutional and financial reform
undertaken to facilitate project sustainability. A brief summary of experience and lessons learned
is presented below:


·       Significant capacity development in procurement, contract and overall management of
        projects, and capacity in financial management have been achieved.
·       Good construction supervision, contract management systems and good international
        practices have been adopted, with improvements being made in contact management,
        cost control, quality control, etc. Quite a number of staff involved in project also
        benefited from training on project management and construction management provided
        by the international consultants. This good experience will influence future project
        management in China.
·       The "low bid principle" was biased and overemphasized in the procurement of civil
        works. Reduced attention to cost related factors, contract variations as well as claims for
        damages resulted in slow construction progress and management difficulties during
        project implementation.



                                                  55

The potential difficulties in institutional and financial reforms were underestimated, There were
a number of obstacles that made it difficult to promote systematic reforms in public utilities
when the execution environment was not ideal locally. As result, there were loss of time and
delays.




                                                  56

                       Annex 7: List of Supporting Documents
                   CHINA: Huai River Pollution Control Project



1. Project Feasibility Studies and Project Proposal

2. Project Appraisal Document

3. Loan Agreement

4. Project Agreement

5. Mission Aide Memoires and Back-to-Office Reports

6. Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports

7. Semi-annual Project Progress Reports




                                           57

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 31224R
                                                                                        I
                     113°               114°                  115°                     I
                                                                                     I      116°                              117°                            118°                                 119°                                           120°                                                     121°
                                                                                    I
                                                                                   I
                                                                                 I
                                                                                I
                                                                                  I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA
                                                                                    I
                                                                                      I
                                                                                       I
                                                H E B E I                                I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HUAI RIVER POLLUTION
                                                                                          I                                       JINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CONTROL PROJECT
                                                                                           I
                                                                                            I
                                                                                             I

                                                                                               I
      S H A N X I                                                                             I
                                                                                                I                                          Feicheng
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                  I
                                                                                                   I          Feicheng         40,000 m3/d 0 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT AREAS

36°                                                                                                                            70 km              0 km                                                                                                                                                                           36°                                  PROJECT CITIES

                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                         S H A N D O N G                                                           Juxian
                                                                                                    I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SUMMARY OUTPUTS OF THE PROJECT
                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                 GrandI                                                                           0 m3/d                40,000 m3/d                                                                                                                              AND PARALLEL INVESTMENTS
                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                        I                                                                         45.3 km               0 km
                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                        Canal
                                                                                                            I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 City
                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                              I                                                                    Juxian
                                                                                                               I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WWTP m3/d                     WWTP m3/d
                                                                                                                I
                                                     Heze                                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sewers km                     Sewers km
                                                                                                                   I     SiHe
                                                                          Heze                                                                           Beng
                                                                                                                    I                                                                                                               Rizhao No. 1                                               Rizhao
                                           80,000 m3/d 0 m3/d                                                                                                   He
                                                                                                                                                                                             Rizhao No. 2
                                           112.7 km     0 km                                                                                                                                                                                                        50,000 m3/d 0 m3/d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PROJECT­FINANCED                 PARALLEL INVESTMENTS
                                                                                   Chengwu                                                                                      He                                                                                  135 km                                    0 km
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Rizhao
35°  YellowRiver  (Huang He)                                                     (Paper Mill)                                                                                         ShuHe                                                                                                                                      35°
                                                                                                                                                                                               50,000 m3/d 0 m3/d                                                                                                                                                     RIVER BASIN BOUNDARY
                                                                            Chengwu Paper Mill                                   Weishan Hu                                Yi                  135 km                0 km
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I I I I I          CANALS
                                  ZHENGZHOU                             Wastewater: 20,000 m3/d
                                                                        Black liquor: 1,200 m3/d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS/STREAMS
                                                                                                                                             Si He                                                                                                                                      Y E L L O W                                                                   PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                             I I I I I I I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S E A
                                                                                                                                      I                    I                                                Yunyan                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                       I                    I

                                                                                                                                        I             I I    I
                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                             Huaibei                     I                                                                      He
                                                                                                                                          I I I I I I
                                                                                                                                                               I
                                                                                                                                                                I
                            H E N A N                                                                                                     Grand    Canal
                                                                                        0 m3/d                    80,000 m3/d                                    I                                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                  I                              XinyiHe                             I
                                                                                        75 km                     35 km                                            I                                                                     I
34                                                                                                                                                           Luoma                                    J I A N G S U                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                                                                                     34°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                             Huaibei                             Hu    II

                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                        Bozhou                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                 I                                                             I           He
                                                                                                                                                                                    I I I                                                        I    ng
                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                        I
                                 Sha            0 m3/d        80,000 m3/d      Bozhou                                                                                                       I
                                    He                                                                                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                55 km         12 km                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                           Kuai                      Xinsui       Suzhou                        I                     Guangai ZongqIuI                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                                              SheyaI  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                     Suzhou         0 m3/d            80,000 m3/d                 II I II        bei
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                                                 I                                                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                       Guoyang                                 Guoyang         He                            He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                                                                    60 km             0 km                                 I                                                                                                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                               I                                                 I
                                                             40,000 m3/d 0 m3/d                                                                Tuo  He                 Hongze                                                                                       ang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                 GI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I

                                                             25 km          16 km                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                               Hu                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                         Bengbu No.3                                                Baima                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                            Bengbu                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hu    SuGrand Canal                               Xinyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                                  I

33°                                                         Fuyang                                     Xifei         Guo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                                                                             RUSSIAN
                                                                                                             He         He               (Huaishang)                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                25,000 m3/d 100,000 m3/d                                                                                                                                         33°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                                                         FEDERATION
                                                   0 m3/d         100,000 m3/d             Fuyang                                                               81 km                  40 km                              I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                                                 I
                                                   42 km          104 km                                      A N H U I              He                                                                                     I   Gaoyou                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                          Bengbu No.1                                                                        I  Hu                                               I                                                                                                                       HEILONGJIANG

                                                        Hong                                             Ying                    Huai                                                                                         I                                                   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I                                                    I
                                                                              Huai   He                      He                                                                                                                 I                                                     I                                                        MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                      Huainan                                                                                     I                               I            I      I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JILIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I   I  I    I I         I II   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I            I   I  I                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I  I I I              I    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I    I III  I I   I I   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I  I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I          II I I I                                                                                        LIAONING
                                                 Huai He                                                                                              Huainan                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I            I           I I IIII                                                 MONGOL                            D.P.R. OF
                                                                                       Chengxi                                 Wabu                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                          50,000 m3/d 110,000 m3/d                                                                                                                                      I                                                                NEI    BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                                                                                                 KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BEIJING
                                                                                            Hu                                 Hu                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                          115 km              5.0 km                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                                                                    I                                                                         HEBEI  TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   REP. OF

32°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Yellow    KOREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANDONG         Sea
               H U B E I                                                                                                                   HEFEI                                       (C Jiang)                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                                                                III II III
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                   NANJING                               I                            R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I (Chang ze iver
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Yangt                                          I   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I II II I         32°                                        SHANXI


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        QINGHAI            NINGXIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I           Jiang)                                                                                                                           JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GANSU                                                  Area of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                        Lu'an                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SHAANXI       HENAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I                                                                                                                                                   Map      East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                                                                                                                              ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                                                                                                                                       China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                                                                                                                       SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                                                                                                                                Sea
                                                                                                           Lu'an                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I                                                              SICHUAN                            HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                                                                                                 ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                    40,000 m3/d 40,000 m3/d                                Chao
                                                                                    80 km                       22 km                              Hu                     YangtzeRiver                                                                                              I                                                                             CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                                                                                JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                                                                   HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                          SHANGHAI                        GUIZHOU                                FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I I
       0   20   40   60   80 100                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tai Hu                                 I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                                    YUNNAN                                                         TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GUANGXI     GUANGDONG
31°            KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I                                                                                                           PACIFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                 SHANGHAISHANGHAI                                                      HONG KONG             OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                                                                                   MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I                                   LAO        VIETNAM
                113°                114°                   115°                          116°                                  117°                              118°                                   119°                                               120°                                             I      121°                        P.D.R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I                                                             HAINAN                      PHILIPPINES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JANUARY 2009

