Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3495-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 2, 1982
East Africa Department
Central Agriculture Division
I  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  |



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   =       Zaires (Z)   =  000 Makuta (k)
US$1.00                         =       Z 2.9 1/
Z 1.00                          =       US$0.35 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                  British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                     =       3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha) = 100 ares       =       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                =       0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)        =       0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                 =       2.2 pounds (lb).
1 liter (1)                     =       0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)            =       2,205 pounds (lb)
1 bale of lint                  =       100 kilograms (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
La COTONNIERE  Societe Cotonniere et Agricole du Kasai et Maniema
COTON-ZAIRE    La Cotonniere du Zaire
CSCo           Caisse de Stabilisation Cotonniere
EDF            European Development Fund
ESTAGRICO       Societe Cotonniere et Agricole de l'Est
INERA          Institut National pour 1'Etude et la Recherche
Agronomiques
ONAFITEX       Office National de Fibres Textiles
ONATRA         Office National de Transports
OR             Office des Routes
PMKO           Projet Mais au Kasai Oriental
PNM            Programme National Mais
PNS            Projet Nord-Shaba
PRONAM         Programme National Manioc
SNCZ           Societe National des Chemins de Fer Zairois
SOFIDE         Societe Financiere de Developpement
SOTEXCO        Societe Textile et Cotonniere
FISCAL YEAR
Government   : January 1 to December 31
CSCo    : January 1 to December 31
La COTONNIERE: January 1 to December 31
ESTAGRICO    : January 1 to December 31
SOTEXCO      : January 1 to December 31
1/   On June 19, 1981 the Zaire was devalued to Z 1.00 = SDR 0,1575 or
SDR 1.00 = Z 6.35.  This is equivalent to about Z 1.00 = US$0.18
or US$1.00 = Z 5.5.



ZAIRE                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.i
I.    BACKGROUND
A.    Project Background ...           ....................................       1
B.    Agricultural and Agro-Industrial Sectors                   ...............  1
C.    Government Services to Agriculture  .... ............                       6
D.    Agriculture Development Strategy  .......................    9
E.    Bank Group Support for Agriculture  ........a.........#...    il
II.    THE COTTON SUB-SECTOR . ........... ....... .    ..................... .          4
III.   THE PROJECT ............................. e..... e .....    24
A.    General Description                           .................................  24
B.   Detailed Features  .................... .......... .....                    25
C.    Project Costs ..           .     .     ..... ... ..............*  28
D. Financing                          ................ 28
E.    Procuretnent  .. ....................... c ...... ..... .                  31
F. Disbursement .........                                                        31
G.   Accounts and Audits ... *............... *.....* ....                      32
H.    Environmental Impact .................................    32
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...            ...        ..........................   33
A.    The Cotton Companies  ...... ......  ...... o. ... .......    33
B.  CSCO ..............   35
C.    Project Implementation Schedule                .................. O...36
D.   Project Completion Report    ..............................    36
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING ....................                ...    37
A.    Technical Features  .....................................    37
B.    Production Estimates  ....................................    39
C.    Farmers' Benefits  .....................................    40
D.    Marketing  .......................................                         41
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS  .... ......................................    41
VII.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION                 .........................    45
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................   47
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Zaire in
November/December 1980, composed of Messrs. S. Capoluongo, R. Egli, S. von
Klaudy, Ms. C. Kimes (EAPCA), and Mr. J.M. Guimard (consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
1.   Supporting Tables
1.   Project Costs
2.   Financing Plan
3.   Shares of Financing Sources
4.   Summary of IDA Financing
5.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
6.   Projected Income Statements
7.   Projected Cash Flow
8.   Projected Balance Sheet
9.   Government Project-Related Cash Flow
10.   Economic Rate of Return
2.   Charts
1.   Organization of the Cotton Sub-Sector
2.   Estimated Implementation Schedule
3.   Material Available in Implementation Volume
4.   Documents in the Project File
5.   Maps
IBRD 15029     Areas of Intervention of the Four
Major Cotton Companies
IBRD 15030R    La COTONNIERE and ESTAGRICO, Areas
of Cotton Production and Location of Ginneries
IBRD 15031R    SOTEXCO, Areas of Cotton Production and Location
of Ginneries



ZAI RE
SECOND COTTON RERABILITATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Project Background
1.01)     A review of the cotton sub-sector in Zaire was carried out in
March 1980 by an IDA mission which updated the Bank Group's information on
developments sînce the major institutional reorganization of 1978-79 (paras
2.14-17). The mission concluded that cotton production in Zaire could be
substantially increased by improvîng marketing operatîons, rehabilitating
exîsting processing facilities, and strengthening extension servîces.  In
April 1980, the Caisse de Stabilisation CoLonniere (CSCo) (para 2.15), the
Governtment institution responsible for regulating cotton sub-sector activi-
ties, elaborated a four-year emergency rehabilitation project for the cotton
sub-sector (paras 3.01-03) and requested Bank Group f inancial participation
in this project. The detailed report prepared by CSCo on the rehabilitation
project and the findings of the March mission were the basis for appraisal of
the proposed Project. This report is based on the fîndings of an appraisal
mission which visited Zaire in November/December 1980 consisting of Messrs.
S. Capoluongo, R. Egli, S. von Klaudy, Ms. C. Kimes (EAPCA) and Mr. J.M.
Guimard (consultant). No sîgnifîcant changes were made în project design
following appraisal.
1.02      The Project is part of a long-term rehabilitation program which
started in 1978 and which has included a substantial reorganization of sub-
sector institutions. The main objective of the four-year rehabilitation
Project is to increase seed cotton production from an expected 23,000 tons
in 1981 to about 55,000 tons by 1984/85 in the areas of the three major
cotton companies: La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO, and ESTAGRICO. Total national
production would then amount to about 65,000 tons and would enable the
domestic textile mills to operate at full capacity; it would also reduce the
need for cotton and cloth imports. To achieve these objectives, the Project
would (a) strengthen the extension services of the cotton companies operating
in these areas; (b) improve the marketing operations and processing facilitîes
of these companies by providing vehicles, equipment and spare parts; (c) sup-
ply insecticides and farm tools to cotton farmers; and (d) rehabilitate
the road infrastructure through manual road maintenance undertaken by the
cotton companies. The Project also aims at increasing food crop production
in the cotton areas through strengthening extension services and improving
transport conditions and marketing operations of cotton companies.
B. The Agricultural and Agro-Industrial Sectors
1.03      Zaire, as one of the most populous and largest countries of Africa,
has a large, mostly untapped potential for agricultural development. Total
population was about 26 million in 1979, growirg at a rate estimated at



about 2.7% a year; 70-75% of the total livg in rural areas. While population
density is relatively low (about 11 per km ), population is unevenly dis-
tributed, with concentrations around Kinshasa, Lubumbashi, the large mining
complexes, Kisangani, and Zaire's eastern frontiers. Elsewhere, vast areas
remain almost uninhabited. Zaire-s urban population has grown rapidly since
independence and is large by African standards (25-30%). Zaire's rural popula-
tion includes many of the poorest people in Africa, and their standard of
Living and income levels have declined during the past five years. Zaire's
estimated 1979 GNP per capita was US$260, and while no reliable figure is
available for the rural population, per capita income was probably less than
US$50.
2
1.04      Zaire covers a vast area, totalling over 2.3 million km , lying
on both sides of the Equator. It is a country of sharp contrasts, including
almost every type of ecology and topography except deserts. Broadly defined
there are four major regions: (a) the rain forest, straddling the equator,
occupies close to 50% of the total land area and receives between 1,600 and
2,000 mm of rainfall a year; soils are generally poor with limited potential
for crop development. (b) Adjacent to the rain forest are areas of mixed
forest and savannah, with rainfall between 1,000 and 1,200 mm a year; the
predominant crop is manioc, while coffee and cocoa flourish. (c) North and
south of the mixed forest and savannah areas are savannah belts, covering
about 35% of total land area; annual dry seasons are longer here, and soils
and topography offer good possibilities for agricultural development. (d) The
eastern tropical uplands are mountainous and plateau areas, with rich volcanic
soils in parts and relatively reliable rainfall between 1,400 and 2,000 mm a
year; the potential for development of many crops is excellent. Of Zaire's
total land area, 30-35% is considered to have a good potential for agricul-
ture (crops and semi-intensive ranching). At present, only a small part of
this potential is productively exploited, with 3-4% of the total land area
(7-10 million ha) under cultivation or developed as ranches; of this, the
estimated area under annual and perennial crops in any given year is between
4 and 6 million ha.
1.05      Agriculture is vital to Zaire's economy, although its contribution
to GDP and to exports in recent years has been far below the proven potential.
Agricultural production has been severely hampered by political turmoil
following independence, deterioration of Government services, unfavorable
farm prices (para 1.14), nationalization policies (1.11), and the general
deterioration of Zaire's economy. Consequently, agriculture's share of GDP
has fluctuated considerably during the past twenty years. In 1959 the sector
accounted for about 25%; this share declined to 16-17% for most of the 1960's
and early 1970's due to contraction in the modern commercial sub-sector (para
1.09). Since the mid-1970's, agriculture has again been contributing about
25% to GDP, but this largely reflects the decline of other sectors of the
economy and the relative resilience of the subsistence sub-sector (para 1.08).
Agriculture provides employment and support to 70-75% of the working popula-
tion and is the basis for a large segment of the manufacturing sector which
employs an additional 10% of the population.



-3 -
1.06      The contribution of agriculture to total exports has also changed
significantly in the past two decades. In 1959, the share of agricultural
products in the total value of exports was about 39%, valued at US$183 mil-
lion. The principal exports were palm oil products (30% of total agricultural
exports), coffee (25%), cotton (15%), and rubber (12%). By 1966, the total
volume and value of agricultural exports had dropped by more than half,
representing 16.5% of total exports and valued at US$77 million. Agricul-
ture's share of total exports hovered at this general level for much of the
1970's, increasing to about 20% in 1978. The trend in cotton exports over
the past twenty years reflects the general decline in agricultural exports:
in 1959, cotton accounted for 15% of agricultural exports and 5% of total
exports, but by the mid-1970's exports had totally ceased and production was
no longer sufficient to satisfy domestic demand (para. 2.05). Similarly,
palm oil exports decreased dramatically from a maximum of 190,000 tons in
1959 to zero in 1979.
1.07      The share of agricultural products in imports has increased substan-
tially in recent years, reflecting the failure of the agricultural sector to
feed the population and to supply needed raw materials. In 1978, food imports
accounted for about 20% of the total value of imports; textiles for further
manufacturing represented 3%, consumer goods, 5%, and agricultural inputs, 2%.
The increased reliance on food imports is particularly striking: in 1976,
the estimates of food imports included 70,000 tons of rice, 15,000 tons of
sugar, 19,000 tons of meat, 42,000 tons of fish, and 123,000 tons of flour. -
Zaire, once a maize exporter, imported about 175,000 tons in 1978. Even so,
food imports are insufficient to meet demand; serious shortages occur, leading
to rapid increases in prices.
Production Systems
1.08      Zaire's agricultural sector is sharply divided into a traditional
subsistence sub-sector and a modern commercial sub-sector. The traditional
sub-sector comprises between 3-4 million farming units, occupying from 4.5-6
million ha. The average farm has about 1.5 ha of crop land and supports an
average of six persons. Of the total population employed by the agriculture
sector, an estimated 75% are engaged in subsistence farming. Farming systems
vary widely, depending on the region and local traditions. Throughout Zaire,
however, traditional farming techniques rely almost exclusively on hand labor
and have changed little over the past century. In many areas a bush fallow
system is the rule, as soil conditions require extended fallow periods to
restore soil fertility. In most communities, land is communally owned, but
crops belong to individual farmers. The predominant crops grown on tradi-
tional farms are cassava, maize, rice, cotton, peanuts, vegetables, and
tropical fruits, particularly bananas. About 100,000 traditional farms own
cattle, representing about 60% of the total national herd, and goats and
sheep are found in many areas. Traditional farms produce virtually all
cotton, 20% of robusta coffee, 80% of arabica coffee, 30% of marketed oil
palm fruit, and 20% of tea; they account for about 60% of the total value of
agricultural production.



- 4-
1.09      The modern sub-sector, which developed during the pre-independence
era, has generally stagnated or declined in importance. It includes two
principal categories of production units: large, corporation-owned plantations,
using modern techniques, and smaller, individually owned farms and ranches,
normally established by colonial farmers. In 1970, there were an estimated
1,200 holdings, controlling a total area of about 2 million ha; the number of
units has declined to about 800 today. 'While size varies widely, the average
holding is estimated at about 2,300 ha, employing about 390 people. The
largest units are held by foreign owned companies (all of which now have
Zairian participation), with full Zairian corporate identity. The smallest
modern sector enterprises are only a few hectares and are essentially family
farms; many of these have been abandoned in recent years. Principal products
of the modern sub-sector are oil palm, sugar, rubber, tobacco, coffee, cocoa,
and cattle. It accounts for about 40% of the total value of agricultural
production and employs about 25% of the total population who work in the
agriculture sector.
Agro-Industrial Enterprises
1.10      Zaire-s manufacturing sector is dominated by vertically integrated
agro-industrial enterprises. Principal agro-industries include palm oil
production, sugar processing, coffee drying plants, cotton ginning and textile
production, beverages (beer and soft drinks), milling and rubber, meat and
wood processing. Most plants are old and badly maintained and operate at
levels well below their capacity, largely because of declines in agricultural
production. The textile industry, operating at 45-50% of its capacity, is a
prime example (para 2.13). It is estimated that spinning and weaving accounted
for about 35% of capital/intermediate goods production in 1976, and clothing
and fabric printing represented about 15% of consumer goods production.
1.11      Until 1973, almost all major industrial and agro-industrial enter-
prises were owned by foreign and locally based expatriate interests. The
-zairianization" measures of 1973-74, however, transferred ownership of
many firms in the transportation, commerce, agriculture, and agro-industrial
sectors to private Zairian hands. In 1974-75, the Government's "radicaliza-
tion" measures nationalized about two-thirds of the firms in the manufacturing
sector, which nevertheless continued to be mostly managed by their former
expatriate owners and managers. The "zairianization" and "radicalization"
measures resulted in severe dislocation of the distribution system of manufac-
tured goods, a drastic decline in the level of industrial investment, and a
substantial deterioration in relations between the private sector and Govern-
ment. Due to concern over the lack of adequate maintenance and replacement
of plant and equipment, the Government initiated a "retrocession" program
in 1976-77 to return ownership of nationalized firms and many "zairianized"
enterprises to their former foreign owners. Former owners were required
to find Zairian partners to purchase 40% of their shareholdings; in some
instances, such as that of the regional cotton companies which the proposed
Project would assist (paras. 2.16, 2.18-2.20), the Government holds between
30 and 40% of the shares.



- 5 -
1.12      The economic crisis in Zaire has depressed the investment environ-
ment. Following "retrocession" in 1976/77, it became evident that agro-
industrial enterprises had experienced net disinvestment since the late
1960's and were in major need of modernization and rehabilitation. Private
foreign investment has not been forthcoming, however, due to continued uncer-
tainty (including quasi-impossibility of profit repatriation), and shortages
of foreign exchange, imported raw materials, and spare parts. In this
environment, the Societe Financiere de Developpement (SOFIDE, para 1.15) has
become the major source of the long-term foreign exchange financing required
to preserve Zaire's industrial base and to restore agricultural and agro-
industrial production.
Marketing and Prices
1.13      Marketing of most agricu]tural crops is dominated by the private
sector. Parastatal bodies have also been established to provide marketing
services for the major commodity groups (para 1.20), but their impact has been
limited due to financial resource constraints and managerial weaknesses. The
quality of marketing services has significantly deteriorated during the past
decade due to the worsening state of the transport network and fleet, storage
problems, and zairianization measures (para 1.11) which drove many traders
away from rural areas. The stagnant production situation (para 1.04) coupled
with the marketing constraints mentioned above have resulted in either perma-
nent shortages or in intermittent supply of agricultural products to urban
areas. Marketing of export crops is handled by commercial plantations
or trading agents. Cotton marketing is discussed in para 2.06.
1.14      During the 1970s, the Government of Zaire regulated the prîces of
many agricultural commodities in an attempt to protect farmers and urban
consumers. However, the complex system of official and minimum prices
resulted in distortions in resource allocation and did not offer adequate
production incentives. In recognition of the negative production impact of
the pricing system, the Government liberalized its policy in June 1981. The
principal points are as follows: (i) The Executive Council (equivalent to
the Cabinet) will set minimum producer prices for the key fooderops (cassava,
corn, paddy), above which market forces are free to operate; it is the Govern-
ment's stated policy to review these minimum producer prices every six months
to coincide with Zaire's two growing seasons. (ii) Similarly, the Executive
Council will set a minimum producer price for cotton at the national level,
but the regional cotton companies will be free to pay more in response to
local conditions and opportunities (para. 2.10). (iii) The ex-factory prices
for processed agricultural commodities (e.g. textile products) will be estab-
lished by the industries concerned on a cost plus 20% profit margin basis.
(iv) Ex-factory prices of basic agricultural commodities (sugar, palm oil,
and wheat flour) will be established by the industries concerned on a cost
plus 20% profit margin basis; the Department of National Economy and Industry
and regional authorities have 30 days to comment and/or object before a
proposed price structure can go into effect. It is too early to assess the
effects of this liberalized system; if adhered to, it should provide better
incentives for both producers and processers of agricultural commodities.



-6 -
It is doubtful, however, whether the Government will be able to guarantee the
minimum producer price for foodcrops as no buyer-of-last-resort exists to
exercise that function.
Agricultural Credit
1.15      Agricultural credit is not well developed in Zaire, and the lack of
credit available for productive enterprises is an important obstacle to the
sector's development. Agricultural credit is provided by six commercial
banks and by SOFIDE, a development finance company established in 1970. 1/
These institutions provide loans to medium- and large-scale enterprises, but
lack of foreign exchange is a major lending constraint. SOFIDE established
an agricultural department in 1976 and has since then rapidly expanded its
lending for livestock, fruit and vegetable production, forestry, and agro-
industries. Agricultural lending accounted for 22% of SOFIDE-s total lending
in 1976 and 33.5% in 1977. Between 1976-78, SOFIDE approved 80 agricultural
projects, totalling 9 9 million. Credit for smallholder agriculture is
virtually non-existent in Zaire; the only source of such credit is lending
within the context of a few area specific development programs. To address
this credit gap, the Government intends to establish an Agricultural Credit
Bank to provide financial resources for the country's farmers. However no
specific steps for its creation have been taken yet.
Foreign Exchange
1.16      The acute shortage of foreign exchange and the absence of clear
mechanisms for its allocation pose critica'l problems for agriculture sector
institutions. Private companies lack foreign exchange to import inputs, spare
parts, and new equipment; fuel is in short supply; and the Governnent has
allocated minimal foreign exchange for imports of fertilizers, veterinary
supplies, tools, and other inputs. While the Central Bank is responsible for
coordinating allocation of foreign exchange resources, no effective mechanism
exists for assessing relative priorities among competing demands or for
ensuring that allocations are made to priority activities. To address this
weakness, the Government is establishing a Working Group (para 1.26), composed
of representatives of the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, the
Department of National Economy, the Central Bank, and the National Businessman's
Association (ANEZA), to review foreign exchange allocation policies, to
propose a rational allocation mechanism, and to establish annual foreign
exchange requirements of the agricultural sector.
C. Government Services to Agriculture
General
1.17      The role of Government institutions in promoting and regulating agri-
cultural development in Zaire has until recently been relatively restricted.
1/   SOFIDE has benefitted from five IDA credits totalling US$53.7 million
and IFC has a 19% subscription of initial share capital; in addition,
SOFIDE has received technical assistance from FAO.



- 7 -
The private sector, largely comprised of Belgian and other external interests,
dominated modern agricultural activities, while support to traditional agri-
culture was practically non-existent. Agricultural research was one of the
few areas for which Government assumed responsibility. Since the early
1970's, however, the Government has considerably expanded its involvement in
the sector through a variety of measures, including partial State ownership
of agricultural enterprises, price controls, marketing activities through
parastatals, and allocation of foreign exchange.
1.18      The institutions responsible for agricultural and rural development
are poorly organized, and the roles of the various agencies not clearly
defined. Difficulties are compounded by frequent changes in institutions
and by problems of coordination among agencies. The principal institution in
the sector is the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development, which is
responsible for agriculture policy, extension services, research, and tech-
nical supervision of the parastatal institutions. The Department of National
Economy, through its involvement in reviewing and setting producer and ex-
factory prices (para 1.14), also affects agricultural development. The
Department of Portfolio supervises parastatals and commercial enterprises in
which the Government holds shares, and the Department of Education administers
agricultural education. Regional authorities also play a role in developing
the areas under their jurisdiction.
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
1.19      The Department of Agriculture and Rural Development (DOA) is headed
by a State Commissioner for Agriculture, with two State Secretaries under him,
one for Agriculture and one for Rural Development. The Agriculture Division
of the Department has particular responsibility for preparation, implementa-
tion, and follow-up of large, production-oriented projects including projects
receiving foreign support; the Rural Development Division concentrates on
provision of rural services, such as water supply, and on cooperative develop-
ment. DOA has about 16,000 staff directly employed and a substantial number
is employed in parastatals and projects.  Services provided are generally
weak due to poor staff training, low salary levels, and inadequate physical
and financial resources. In many areas of the country, extension work by the
Government has virtually ceased because extension workers have no access to
inputs or means of transport. This situation is gradually improving as the
Government has startea to equip extension supervisors with jeeps or motor-
bikes, and extension agents with bicycles. In some regions, agricultural
enterprises and development projects are operating extension services on
behalf of the Government; this is the case in the cotton growing areas of
Zaire (para 2.24). The Department is also not able to carry out its responsi-
bilities for planning, preparation, implementation, and supervision of
proiects due to lack of trained personnel. Furthermore, DOA has a weak
financial management structure, wïth rudimentary budgetary procedures and
financial controls; this results in disbursement problems and poor public
Investment performance in the sector. IDA staff are addressing these problems
via an on-going sectoral dialogue with Department officials (para 1.29); in
addition, a technical assistance project, designed to strengthen DOA's capacity
for development planning, project preparation and implementation, and policy
analysis, was appraised by IDA staff in May/June 1981.



-8 -
Parastatal Institutions
1.20      In 1971, the Governiment began to establish regulatory parastatals
("offices") for each major agricultural produet.  The principal responsibility
of these bodies was to regulate trade and exports for their respective com-
modity. Some offices also financed marketing activities, while others became
directly involved in production activities following the nationalization of
zairianized enterprises in 1974 (para 1.11). In May 1978, the Goverment
initiated a complete reorganization of these commodity agencies due to acute
management and financial problems; some offices were dissolved completely,
while others were replaced with new parastatal institutions. In the case of
the cotton sub-sector, the existing parastatal was dissolved and the Caisse
de Stabilisation Cotonniere (CSCo) was created to take over cotton sector
activities on a more limited basis (paras 2.14-2.15). Three regulatory para-
statals are operating at present: CSCo (cotton), Office National pour le
Developpement de lElevage (ONDE, livestock), and Office Zairois du Cafe
(OZACAF, coffee). Because of the poor financial record of offices in the
past, the new parastatal agencies have found it virtually impossible to
borrow funds through commercial sources, and this has exacerbated the basic
management problems that all have inherited. However, CSCo has emerged as a
relatively efficient agency, and ONDE, established in 1973 as the implementing
agency for the IDA-supported Livestock Development Project (Cr. 397-ZR), has
improved its operational capacity recently.
Agricultural Research
1.21      The National Institute of Agronomic Research and Studies (INERA)
is responsible for agricultural research in Zaire. It is supervised by the
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development but functions as an autonomous
body. Its activities cover plantation and field crops as well as livestock.
INERA has 22 research stations, although only about seven are operating
effectively. INERA inherited an excellent infrastructure, program, and staff
for agricultural research, and has been effectively managed within the con-
straints of the external environment. However, it has faced severe budgetary
shortages over a period of several years and the quality of research has
deteriorated; links with extension services are virtually non-existent outside
the confines of a few development schemes. Two important crop specific
national programs are being carried out under the aegis of INERA with foreign
assistance: the National Maize Program (PNM) and the National Manioc Program
(PRONAM). Both aim to identify high-yielding and disease resistant seed and
plant varieties for Zaire, and PNM and PRONAM staff are in close contact with
international research institutions. The managerial and operational con-
straints affectirîg INERA are under active review by Government and foreign
aid agencies and may be the focus of a rehabilitation program. Cotton re-
search is discussed in para 2.23.
Agrieultural Education
1.22      Agricultural education is the responsibility of the Department of
Education. A variety of agricultural training programs are available which
prepare students for extension and research work. Graduates are ranked at



- 9 -
three levels of expertise, depending on the length and type of program:
extension workers are usually A3, agronomists A2, and senior agronomists A1
The Yangambi faculty near Kisangani is the principal source of qualified
agronomists. Although Zaire has developed a substantial network of agricul-
tural education institutions, most programs are not well adapted to the
needs of the agricultural sector. Graduates recruited for the extension
services generally require additîonal practical training in order to perform
adequately. Budgetary shortages have afflicted the teaching institutions and
physical plant is generally obsolete, inadequate, and deteriorating. The need
for revitalization of training institutions is widely recognized.
Local Administration
1.23      Regional and local authorîties frequently play an important role
in the design and implementation of rural development programs. Local
administration is coordinated through the Department of Interior and is
based on a four-tier system: eight regions (plus Kinshasa, the Federal
Capital), 24 sub-regions, 133 zones, and several hundred "collectivites".
The Regions are headed by Regional Commissioners, who exercise wide authority
on security and police matters; they also have responsibility for coordination
of development activities within theîr jurisdiction. As part of the Govern-
ment's effort to increase local responsibility for economic affairs (Law No.
008 of January 1978), a network of Regional Economic Development Councils is
being set up to serve as the policy-making apparatus for the economic develop-
ment of the regions and sub-regions. Senior sub-regional and zonal officers
are politico-administrative officials, while the "collectivite" is governed
by a "Chef de Collectivite" who is often the customary chief.
D. Agriculture Development Strategy
1.24      The Government of Zaire has designated the agricultural sector as
the "priority of priorities" and recognizes that agricultural recovery is
essential to the country's economic well being. Nevertheless, agriculture's
share of financial resources during the past decade has been quite low.
Between 1970-1976, the sector's share of the recurrent budget averaged about
2%, increasing to 3% in 1977-78; access to capital funds has also been
limited, and the agricultural component of the draft public investment pro-
gram for 1981-83 represents about 4% of total proposed investments. This low
level reflects the limited absorptive capacity of the sector and the need to
solve basic structural and institutional problems before rapidly increasing
investments. However, to these proposed investments should be added învest-
ments in transport infrastructure and private investments in agriculture
which are expected to contribute to improved agriculture sector performance.
Planning
1.25      Several agricultural planning exercises have been conducted in the
past decade, particularly in response to economic and sectoral crises after



- 10 
1975. These efforts have involved analysis of sector potential and constraints
to development, establishment of objectives and priorities for the sector,
and identification of key areas for investment. The principal initiatives of
recent years have included the Agriculture Recovery Program (1978), the
Mobutu Plan of 1979, and the Minimum Agricultural Program (PAM) of 1980.
However, the lack of effective coordination between broad plans and strategies
for economic development and the formulation and implementation of investment
budgets and projects has meant that agricultural planning efforts have made
little positive contribution to sectoral development. The establishment of
a workable system for planning agricultural development is recognized as
necessary to the achievement of the Government's agriculture sector objec-
tives, and efforts are being made to improve performance in this area.
Agricultural Action Plan
1.26      The Government is in the process of preparing an Agricultural Action
Plan based on a full review of the current situation in the agricultural
sector, which outlines the steps the Government intends to take to reverse
declining agricultural production. The Action Plan will also provide a full
review and analysis of on-going agricultural projects; an agricultural invest-
ment plan for 1981-83, specifically linked to the Planning Ministry's three-
year investment plan; and an analysis of foreign exchange requirements for the
agricultural sector.  Major themes in the Government's agricultural strategy
include improving management of on-going development activities, strengthening
extension services to farmers, increasing the effectiveness of marketing
channels, encouraging private sector involvement in agricultural development,
and rationalizing the activities of public sector institutions responsible for
agricultural policy. As part of the Agricultural Action Plan, the Government
has established a committee (Comite de Conjoncture) to which the Minister of
Agriculture is to report once a month on agricultural policy and programs.
The establishment of this committee is intended to facilitate interministerial
support and coordination for monitoring the performance of ongoing agricultural
development activities and for developing agricultural strategies.  In addition,
working groups are to be created to review key sectoral issues -- marketing
operations, pricing, incentives for private sector involvement, foreign
exchange allocations, agricultural credit--and to make recommendations on
appropriate Government action.
Private Sector Involvement
1.27      The Government is giving greater emphasis to increasing the role
of the private sector in agricultural development. This policy of involving
companies in the national economic recovery effort dates back to 1978 and the
establishment of economic recovery funds (ERF). This system was institution-
alized by Law 79-002 of February 7, 1979, which requires industrial and
commetcial enterprises to participate in,the national economic recovery
effort by signing Development Agreements with the Executive Council (the
equivalent to the Cabinet), whereby they are authorized to establish an
economic recovery fund from the collection of a special sales tax. The
proceeds of this levy are deposited once a month with the Bank of Zaire and
are managed by the enterprise for the Government. The fund is used to finance
development projects with priority given to import substituting productive
activities; in rural areas, maintenance and construction of transport and
social infrastructure are aiso importanit. The enterprises can implement
development projects on their own or sub-contract their implementation to
other companies and organizations under an "Implementation Agreement".



- il -
1.28      To date, the experience with development agreements has varied
widely from company to company; although it has clearly encouraged several
companies to embark on worthwhile schemes, others have initiated poorly
planned activities.   Financial management provisions remain unclear, and in
some instances, the Bank of Zaire has frozen ERF accounts pending clarifica-
tion of the system. The Zairian Government is conducting a full review of
the system and is taking steps to improve coordination. A Secretariat General
in the Ministry of National Economy has been established to review all develop-
ment agreements and to monitor investments and use of funds. The regional
cotton companies have taken on a wide range of activities in their areas of
responsibility, of which extension services and manual road maintenance and
rehabilitation (paras 2.16-17, 3.15) are being financed under economic
recovery funds originating from the textile industry. After initial complica-
tions involving release of recovery funds were cleared up, the system has
functioned smoothly and extension work and road rehabilitation are proceeding.
E. Bank Group Support for Agriculture
1.29      The Bank Group has engaged in several efforts in the past decade
to support Zaire's agricultural development programs. These include, notably,
a sector survey in 1971-72; financing of seven projects to date; assistance
for agricultural planning, most intensively for the Agricultural Working
Group of the Consultative Group for Zaire; and a continuing dialogue with
the Goveroment on agriculture sector issues. The key policy issues under
discussion have included marketing operations, pricing, incentives for private
sector involvement, foreign exchange allocations, and agricultural credit.
It was agreed at the Consultative Group Meeting held in June, 1981 that an
agricultural subgroup would meet in the first half of 1982. The purpose of
the meeting would be to monitor progress made in carrying out the new agricul-
tural strategy (para 1.26) and in handling key policy issues. The meeting
would also provide a forum for the coordination of external donors support
for agriculture and for a review of measures taken to improve project imple-
mentation and their results.
1.30      The Bank Group has supported seven projects for agricultural develop-
ment in Zaire, all of which are under implementation. Bank Group assistance
for the seven on-going projects totals US$72.0 million, of which about 45%
was directed to the commercial agriculture sector, 30% to the smallholder
sector, and 25% to livestock operations. One of the on-going projects bene-
fits cotton farmers in the region of Equateur; the experience of this project
is discussed in Chapter II (para 2.27). In nearly all the projects, implemen-
tation problems have been serious; recurrent problems have included: (a)
lack of appropriate staff; (b) poor financial management and liquidity prob-
lems, including government failure to provide counterpart funds on time; (c)
inappropriate pricing policies; and (d) inadequate marketing infrastructure-.
These problems were reviewed with Government officials during a Country
Implementation Review held in January 1980, and the Government's initiatives
to establish the inter-departmental commission and five working groups (para
1.26) should improve the situation.
1.31      Bank Group support for agricultural development in Zaire during
the next few years will seek to assist the Government in elaborating a



- 12 -
coherent and realistic strategy to revitalize the agricultural sector. The
challenge is to establish an institutional framework within which progress
can be made and to mobilize and coordinate available resources. The Bank
Group approach will include both sector discussions with the Government on key
institutional and policy issues and continued lending operations consistent
with Zaire-s absorptive and implementation capacity. As part of this general
sector strategy, IDA staff negotiated a technical assistance project in March
1982 (para. 1.19) which focuses on institutional constraints in DOA and
on mechanisms for addressing key policy issues. Future lending operations
will give priority to projects which contribute to rehabilitating productive
capacity, increase the supply of basic commodities, and benefit from the
existence of well-run institutions. Intensive supervision of on-going
agricultural projects will continue to be a central part of the Bank Group's
support to the sector; such an effort ensures that existing investments are
made to work and that project objectives and problems are directly related to
the sector dialogue.
II.   THE COTTON SUB-SECTOR
General
2.01      Cotton cultivation has been an important factor in the rural devel-
opment of large area of Zaire since the early 1920's. Introduced to satisfy
the raw material needs of Belgium, cotton cultivation soon stimulated the
construction of infrastructure, the organization of agricultural services and
the development of a monetary economy in the cotton growing areas. Cotton
has never been cultivated on large plantations in Zaire, but has remained
exclusively a smallholder crop grown in rotation with food crops. The market-
ing of seed cotton and its processing into lint are carried out by regional
cotton companies (paras 2.16-22); a parastatal institution, the Caisse de
Stabilisation Cotonniere (CSCo) (para 2.15), supervises the operations of
these companies, administers sub-sectoral policy, and controls lint quality.
It also organizes the distribution of lint among the domestic textile firms
in order to assure equitable distribution of scarce lint between them. The
Zairian Government has accorded considerable importance to the cotton sub-
sector in the country's economic recovery program, and following a major
institutional reorganization in 1978 (para 2.14), the sub-sector is once
again playing an important role in the development of rural areas of Zaire.
Production and Consumption
2.02      Production of cotton increased rapidly after its introduction into
Zaire in 1918, and the 1958/59 campaign culmirnated in a record crop of about
180,000 tons of seed cotton. In that year, it is estimated that about 880,000
smallholder families cultivated cotton and that the area planted with cotton
(370,000 ha) represented about 25% of all cultivated land. Following indepen-
dence, production declined and reached an all-time low of 16,700 tons in
1978. The factors behind this dramatic reversal ranged from the general
deterioration in extension services, research, and road infrastructure to



- 13 -
inadequate pricing policies and the unavailability of spare parts, vehicles,
farm tools, and inputs. These problems were further compounded by deficien-
cies in purchasing, marketing, and seed distribution on the part of ONAFITEX,
the parastatal in charge of the subsector from 1971 to 1978 (para 2.14).
Following a reorganization of sub-sector institutions in late 1978/79, produc-
tion has begun to revive, but the poor state of the roads, transport fleet,
factory equipment, and support services continues to hamper cotton sector
operations. It is estimated that about 300,000 farm families are currently
cultivating cotton on about 90,000 ha or about 2% of Zaire's cultivated land
area. Cotton production in the principal cotton areas during the past decade
is summarized below.
Seed Cotton Production: 1971-1981
('000 metric tons)
Zone      Kasai
Year 1/  Equateur  Haut-Zaire  Zone Uvira  Shaba  Maniema   Oriental  Total
1971       12.9       10.1          3.9        7.6      5.4       18.0      57.9
1972        6.3       12.2          2.7        8.6      5.4       15.8      51.0
1973       12.7       21.2          3.2        6.5      6.1       17.5      67.2
1974        9.8       11.3          3.4        5.0      5.0       14.0      48.5
1975        4.6        6.o          2.6        3.1      2.3        7.9      26.5
1976        3.3        6.3          1.5        3.0      1.7        8.0      23.8
1977 2/     4.4        8.3          3.5        4.5      3.7        8.6      33.0
1978        2.9        5.0          0.7        2.1      1.9        4.1      16.7
1979        2.6        5.0          1.3        2.2      2.2        5.6      18.9
1980        2.6        7.5          1.5        3.8      4.3        9.6      29.3
1981 3/     3.1        5.9          1.8        3.4      5.4        4.0      23.6
1/   Campaign years which correspond roughly to calendar years.
2/   Data base uncertain, probably highly over-estimated.
3/   Final figures for Equateur and Haut-Zaire, estimates elsewhere.
Reasons for the expected production decrease are presented in para 5.06.
2.03      Cotton is grown on both sides of the equator, bordering on the forest
of the Zaire Basin and extending into the savannah areas. The principal
cotton growing areas are the sub-regions of Ubangi and Mongala in Equateur;
the sub-regions of Haut-Uele and Bas-Uele in Haut-Zaire; the subregions of
Maniema and South-Kivu in Kivu; the subregions of Tanganika, Lualaba, and
Haut-Lomami in Shaba, and the region of Kasai-Oriental (Map 15029). Natural
soil fertility varies greatly in these areas, and climatic conditions are
favorable for cotton production. The cotton growing areas are divided into
two climatic zones with complementary cultivation patterns: north of the
equator (Haut-Zaire and Equateur), cotton is planted in June/July and har-
vested from December onwards, while south of the equator (Kasai Oriental,
Shaba, Kivu), it is planted in December/January and harvested from June
onwards.
2.04      Cotton is cultivated by smallholders in rotation with foodcrops
such as maize, groundnuts, rice and cassava. Chemical inputs are rarely



14 -
applied, and few agricultural tools and implements are available to farmers.
Consequently, the productivity of farmers is low, and average yields are cur-
rently not more than 300 kg/ha. The principal varieties of cotton cultivated
in Zaire are Reba B-50 in the north and NC-8 in the south; a new variety,
Zaire 407-1832 ("Zaire"), is gradually being introduced in the south as it
yields about 30-40% more than NC-8 (para 5.04). These cotton varieties
have medium-staple fibers and are well suited to both the domestic and export
textile markets. The quality of cotton grown in Zaire is good but not out-
standing; about 90% of the production is classified as first and the remainder
as second quality at the farm level.
2.05      Until 1950, almost all of Zaire's cotton production was exported as
lint, but by the late 1950s, about 20% of lint production was consumed by the
local textile industry and about 80% was exported; cotton exports represented
about 15% of the value of agricultural exports and about 5% of total exports.
With the decline in cotton production in the 1960's, Zaire ceased exporting
altogether and became a net importer between 1965 and 1968. Exports resumed
thereafter at a much lower level, averaging about 28% of local fiber produc-
tion between 1969 and 1975. With continued declines in cotton production,
locally-produced fiber was no longer sufficient to satisfy the domestic
industry, and cotton exports ceased in the late 1970s. Although the domestic
textile industry has been operating at about 50% of its 21,000 ton capacity
over the past four years, imports have taken place only when foreign exchange
for purchases or grants was available. A breakdown of fiber sales to the
domestic and foreign markets is presented below:
Cotton Fiber Sales and Consumption: 1969-1980
('000 metric tons)
1969  1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  1976- 1977-11978- 97 _        1980:_ /
Domestic
Sales       10.9  11.3  12.6  11.6  13.8  14.4   8.4   7.6  10.6   5.8   6.7  10.6
Exports        7.2   8.9   6.1   4.4   6.7   1.7   1.0    -         -     -     -      -
Total Sales  18.1  20.2  18.7  16.0  20.5  15.1   9.4   7.6  10.6   5.8   6.7  10.6
Imports         -    0.1    -      -     -    -       -    n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.
Domestic      10.9  11.4  12.6  11.6  13.8  14.4   8.4   n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.  n.a.
Consumption
1/   Estimates on the basis of seed cotton production; figures on fiber imports
are not available.



- 15 -
Marketing and Processing
2.06      The Government has given regional cotton companies (paras 2.16-21)
the monopoly on purchasing cotton in the regions entrusted to them (Map
15029); this monopoly requires that they buy all seed cotton produced in their
respective areas. This guarantees the farmers regular revenues from cotton
sales, but reduces the efficiency of the companies, which must send trucks and
buying teams to every location regardless of the amounts produced. The seed
cotton buying campaigns are financed by commercial banks through credits
guaranteed by the textile mills. Seed cotton is purchased in village markets
by buying teams with 4-5 members, comprising cotton company employees, a
representative of DOA, and representatives of the local people. Seed cotton
purchases start at the beginning of the harvest, that is, December in the
north and July in the south. The cotton purchased is either loaded directly
onto a truck or stored in collection sheds built by the farmers. During the
period of seed cotton evacuation, the cotton companies distribute seeds to the
farmers for planting. During ONAFITEX's administration of the subsector (para
2.14), purchasing and evacuating seed cotton lasted the better part of each
year; the new companies have reduced campaigns to about seven months by
reorganizing operations and improving staff supervision. To permit correct
operation and maintenance of ginneries and vehicles, this season should be
further reduced to five months. Cotton lint is shipped to domestic textile
mills according to a quota established by CSCo (para 2.15). The bales go by
truck or rail to transit points from which they are transported to their final
destination either by rail or by river. The cotton companies sell the cotton
lint to the textile mills FOB ginnery; the cost of shipping the bales is paid
by the textile mills on the basis of a standardized cost figure calculated by
CSCo.
2.07      Sixty-four ginneries, widely dispersed throughout the cotton
growing areas (Maps 15030R and 15031R), currently process Zaire's cotton
harvest. Ten additional ginneries could be put into operation without major
investments but are currently not being used because of low cotton produc-
tion. The ginneries, all manufactured by the same firm, are 30-50 years old
and are prone to frequent breakdowns; the gins are of the saw-type (most with
80 or 90 saws) and are no longer being manufactured, but the manufacturer is
continuing to supply spare parts. A few of the oldest ginneries are driven
by steam power, but more recent installations are driven by diesel motors or
electrical systems. In addition to these ginneries, thirty new ginneries
(of a different manufacturer) were ordered for the cotton sub-sector in 1972.
Due to the lack of a competent contractor, however, the equipment was scat-
tered throughout Zaire, and only one ginnery was ever assembled; even this
plant has never functioned due to an incomplete electrical system. Today,
little remains of these thirty ginneries, as equipment has been cannibalized
for other installations or sold by ONAFITEX creditors. As the manufacturer
went out of business in 1978, salvaging these ginneries appears virtually
impossible.
2.08      Seed cotton is kept in2stores at the ginneries prior to processing;
many ginneries have over 1,000 m of storage area with a capacity of 500-1,000
tons of seed cotton. Due to the low level of cotton production in Zaire, the



- 16 -
ginneries are currently operating a single 8-hour shift per day, five days per
week, during a seven-month ginning season; however, the ginning facilities are
capable of operating two shifts per day and processing 106,000 tons of seed
cotton. The average level of lint extracted from seed cotton in Zaire is
36%; at this lint/seed cotton ratio, an 80-saw gin in good condition produces
fourteen 100 kg bales per shift, while a 90-saw gin produces twenty-two 100
kg bales per shift. The bales are stored in warehouses attached to the
ginneries, and the lint is shipped out as ginning proceeds; consequently,
stocks held at any one time are relatively small (less than two months produc-
tion). Cotton seed is used primarily for the next season s planting or is
burned to produce energy; currently only a small portion undergoes further
processing into oil products or seed meal.
Pricing
2.09      During the 1970s, Government authorities set cotton producer prices
administratively and followed a policy of keeping raw cotton (and thus tex-
tile) prices low. In line with this policy, cotton prices remained virtually
unchanged between 1971 and 1975. As Zaire experienced high rates of inflation
during this period, the real price set for cotton substantially deteriorated,
and the price ratio between cotton and competing food crops declined. To
reverse this trend, prices were doubled in June 1976, in July 1978, and again
in July 1979. These price increases improved cotton's attractiveness to
farmers but were too low to provide a production incentive in areas close to
national borders (due to the overvalued Zaire) or to urban centers and major
supply lines (due to high demand for food).  The mechanism for fixing and
adjusting cotton producer prices during the past decade was unsatisfactory for
five reasons:  (a) the prices fixed administratively were ceilings, (b) only
one price per quality of seed cotton was fixed for the whole country, (c)
price adjustments were not made frequently enough in view of the high infla-
tion rates, (d) determination of appropriate price levels was complicated by
distortions in the exchange rate, resulting in relatively low prices for
cotton and textiles, and (e) the two distinct growing seasons (para 2.03) were
flot taken into account at price reviews. These deficiencies resulted in a
single price which did not correspond to localized production conditions.
Thus, while low producer prices were not the only reasons for declining cotton
production during.the past ten years--weak services to producers and lack of
consumer goods were also important factors--the absence of a competitive
cotton market (para 2.06) made it possible to impose the official pricing
policy and contributed to farmer decisions to reduce the area planted with
cotton.
2.10      Recognizing the negative production impact of its pricing policy,
the Government introduced a new policy in June 1981 (para 1.14) which signifi-
cantly liberalized cotton prices.  Under the new system, the producer prices
proposed by DOA and fixed by the Department of National Economy and Industry,
after approval by the Executive Council, function only as minimum prices,
and the regional cotton companies are free to adjust prices upwards in
response to local conditions and opportunities. The Government has also
reaffirmed its commitment to conduct semi-annual reviews of minimum cotton
producer prices in order to make adjustments in harmony with Zaire's two



- 17 -
cotton growing seasons. The system of semi-annual reviews was introduced
in October 1980, when the Credit Agreement for the First Cotton Rehabilita-
tion Project (para. 2.28) was amended to specify that the Government would
conduct reviews every six months and would consult with IDA before June 1 and
December 1 of each year. In keeping with the commitment, the Government sub-
mitted a price adjustment document to IDA in April 1981, and producer price
increases were announced at the beginning of June 1981, in time to affect
planting decisions for the 1982 northern crop. The 1981 southern crop, which
was just ready for harvest at that time, was bought at Z 1.15 per kg for first
quality and Z 0.90 per kg for second quality cotton. Minimum producer prices
were increased in the second half of 1981 to Z 1.80 per kg of first quality
cotton and Z 1.30 per kg of second quality cotton. These prices are still in
effect.
2.11      Prior to the price liberalization of June 1981, cotton lint prices
were fixed by the Department of National Economy based on proposals by CSCo
in consultation with the cotton companies and the textile industry. Cotton
lint prices were uniform throughout the country and varied only with different
qualities; adjustments took place whenever one of the main cost elements--
ginning, transport, salaries--increased by a fixed percentage. Prices were
based on cost plus a 15% handling and profit margin; at appraisal cotton
fiber cost Z 7.50 per kg ex-ginnery and about Z 8.00 per kg delivered to the
textile plant. It increased to about Z 10 per kg ex-ginnery during the first
half of 1981 due to substan7tial input price increases, cotton producer price
increases (para 2.10), and a somewhat lower level of production (para 2.02).
After the devaluation of the Zaire currency in June 1981 the average cotton
lint price was fixed at about Z 14 per kg. During the past two years the
lint price per kg was fixed to cover costs plus profit margin of the cotton
company with the highest unit cost for lint production. Under the new policy
announced in June 1981, the lint pricing mechanism was liberalized. The
cotton companies are responsible for setting lint prices according to the
basic formula--cost plus a maximum 20% profit and handling margin--and the
Department of National Economy no longer approves these prices.
The Textile Industry
2.12      The textile manufacturing sector, measured on a value-added basis
and by the number of people employed, is the third largest manufacturing
industry in Zaire, after mining and food/beverage processing. The industry
employs 15,000 workers directly and indirectly supports another 10,000 workers
in allied industries, such as distribution, sales and ancilliary service
organizations. Textile production was valued at appraisal at Z 700 million
per year, resulting in a direct contribution of Z 175 million in sales taxes,
income taxes, and special levies to the Government. The textile industry is
composed of six major companies plus three minor ones, and installations are
concentrated in Kinshasa, Lubumbashi, Kalemie and Kisangani. All of the
textile enterprises are Zairian companies with a majority-of shares held
by foreign owners; the Zairian Government holds 40% of the stock of the
second largest company. The current installed weaving capacity can treat a



- 18 -
lint volume of about 21,000 tons corresponding to about 69,000 tons of
seed cotton; printing capacity totals about 100 million m . Due to deteriora-
tion of equipment, however, it is estimated that the actual capacity of the
domestic textile mills is less than two thirds of the installed capacity. The
principal fabrics produced by the Zairian textile industry are shirting,
sheeting, blankets, twills, print cloth, and underwear.
2.13       The decline in cotton production since independence has resulted
in temporary scarcities of cotton supplies and has necessitated lint imports
during the 1960's and after 1976. Because of the low production volumes,
the textile industry has been operating at about 40% of capacity despite
occasional lint imports financed mainly by US grants; with the cotton produc-
tion increases of 1978-1980, industrial output has increased to about 50% of
installed capacity. In the current scarcity situation, distribution of cotton
lint between textile firms is planned and handled by CSCo. Each textile firm
receives that percentage of national lint production which corresponds to the
firm's share of national (textile) processing capacity. The projected
increase of seed cotton production to 60,000 tons by 1984/85 would result in
full utilization of the textile industry's installed capacity. The domestic
textile mills have been in the last four years supplying about half of the
country's textile consumption. However, sales of the local textile industry
decreased significantly in late 1981 mainly as a result of a large increase
in imports of second-hand clothes following import liberalization measures.
The Government is considering a series of actions to assist the recovery of
sales of domestic textiles, including export incentives. In the long run the
industry is expected to supply about 80% of Zaire's textile needs provided
its equipment is rehabilitated. The Bank Group is currently examining the
justification for rehabilitation and expansion of the textile manufacturing
sector in Zaire.
Key Institutions
2.14       In 1971,` a parastatal institution, l'Office National des Fibres
Textiles (ONAFITEX), was created to regulate cotton sector activities; ONAFITEX
was also responsible for financing the cotton campaigns, organizing transport
and marketing of cotton fiber, and providing extension services to cotton
farmers. The purchase, transport, and ginning of seed cotton were carried
out by thirteen private cotton companies. Following the zairianization
measures of 1973 (para 1.11), ONAFITEX also took over the marketing and
processing operations previously performed by the private companies. However,
as ONAFITEX's administration was characterized by financial and technical
mismanagement, a precipitous decline in cotton output took place (para 2.02),
and the Government dissolved ONAFITEX in May 1978. One indication of the
serious mismanagement of ONAFITEX was that it accumulated substantial debts
estimated at more than Z 10 million (US$11.5 million equivalent), for which
the government has assumed responsibility. Government policy since 1978
has sought to establish an institutional structure capable of rehabilitating
the cotton subsector. To this end, a new regulatory agency, the Caisse de
Stabilisation Cotonniere, was established in August 1978 to supervise and
coordinate subsector activities (para 2.15), and four regional cotton companies
(paras 2.16-21), COTON-ZAIRE, LA COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO and ESTAGRICO, were
organized during 1978-79 to assume seed cotton marketing and processing
operations in well-defined geographic areas (Chart 1 and Map 15029).



- 19 -
Caisse de Stabilisation Cotonniere (CSCo)
2.15      CSCo, created in August 1978, is the central institution for the
cotton sub-sector and is responsible for promoting cotton production and
regulating sub-sector activities. CSCo operates under the jurisdiction
of the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development.  According to its
statutes, CSCo is to be governed by a seven-member Board of Directors,
composed of the General Manager and two Department Directors of CSCo, and
representatives of the Departments of Portfolio, Agriculture and Rural
Development, National Economy, and Finance. In practice, however, the Board
did not begin functioning until January 1982, when a decree nominating the
members of the Board was issued. CSCo headquarters are located in Kinshasa,
and it has three departments: (i) administration and finance, (ii) marketing;
and (iii) general inspection. CSCo employs 55 people (March 1981), of whom
51 work at headquarters and four in the field. The General Manager is an
expatriate, and the Director of the Finance and Administration Department as
well as the Inspector General are well-qualified Zairian nationals; the
Marketing Director post was still vacant at the time of negotiations. CSCo
staff are generally competent and motivated and staff turnover has not been a
problem. The principal tasks of CSCo are (i) assuring quality control of seed
cotton and cotton lint, (ii) distributing lint production between local
textile mills, (iii) coordinating cotton research, (iv) managing Government
assets in the sub-sector, and (v) defining cotton export regulations and
procedures. It has played a particularly important role in reviewing and
proposing seed cotton and cotton lint prices and in coordinating financing
efforts for the subsector. CSCo is financially well-managed and all costs of
its operations are covered by revenues from its lint distribution activities.
Regional Cotton Companies
2.16      In November 1978, the Government of Zaire and the major domestic
textile firms entered into agreements creating three mixed capital cotton
companies responsible for specific geographic areas: (i) the "Societe
Cotonniere et Agricole du Kasai et Maniema" (La COTONNIERE), (ii) the "Societe
Textile Cotonniere et Agricole du Haut-Zaire" (SOTEXCO), responsible for
Haut-Zaire, and (iii) the "Societe Cotonniere et Agricole de l'Est Zairois"
(ESTAGRICO), responsible for Tanganika, part of Haut-Lomami (Shaba) and Uvira
(South Kivu) (Maps 15030R and 15031R). The companies have been operating
since ONAFITEX's dissolution, but their legal personalities were only confirmed
in December 1980 (La COTONNIERE and SOTEXCO) and March 1981 (ESTAGRICO) when
their statutes were approved by presidential decree. The participation of the
Government in these companies' subscribed capital consists of physical assets,
like vehicles, inherited from ONAFITEX; the participation of private companies,
mainly the Zairian textile mills, consists of working capital. However, most
of the ginneries and other installations do not form part of the companies'
assets but remain Government property. Purchase-lease arrangements are being
finalized. At the time ONAFITEX was dissolved, cotton operations in Equateur
were managed by the Project Unit responsible for implementing the IDA-supported
Cotton Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 660-ZR) (para 2.27); this arrangement



- 20 
continued until December 1979 when the Project Unit was transformed into a
state company, "La Cotonniere du Zaire" (COTON-ZAIRE). COTON-ZAIRE is
wholly Government owned. Its physical assets consist of items inherited from
ONAFITEX, including ginneries and other physical installations, and of assets
acquired under the Cotton Rehabilitation Project. The Government also con-
tributed directly to working capital.
2.17      The regional cotton companies concentrate their staff (administra-
tive, technical, and extension) around operating ginneries; the area covered
by a ginnery post is generally determined by agricultural and transport
considerations. Key positions are frequently held by expatriates, most of
them Belgian specialists with long experience of cotton growing and processing
in Zaire. However, qualified and promising Zairian personnel, transferred
to the new companies from ONAFITEX or newly hired, have also been placed in
key positions. In addition to marketing and processing seed cotton, the
regional cotton companies have started a number of related development
activities; these include marketing and processing foodcrops grown in rotation
with cotton; selling consumer goods to farmers at cost prices; providing
extension services to cotton producers; and rehabilitating roads and bridges
in their areas of intervention.
2.18      La COTONNIERE-s  head offices are located in Kinshasa.  The company
is governed by a board and day-to-day operations are directed by a general
manager. Field opèrations are supervised by a general inspector residing in
Kabinda.  La COTONNIERE-s area of intervention (Map 15030R) is divided into
three directorates corresponding to sub-regional boundaries: Maniema, Kabinda,
and Sankuru; each directorate is further subdivided into three sectors. At
the time of appraisal, La COTONNIERE employed about 1,900 staff, 400 of whom
were in the extension service. The company currently operates 17 ginneries
(four additional ginneries could be put into operation) and accounts for
between 45 and 50% of national cotton production.
2.19      SOTEXCO's headquarters are located in Kisangani, Haut-Zaire.  The
company is governed by a board and day-to-day operations are handled by a
director general based in Kisangani. Two directorates are based in Isiro and
Dingila. SOTEXCO's area of intervention (Map 15031R) is divided into eight
sectors each of which has several operating ginneries. The company employs
about 1,150 people, of whom about 250 are in the extension service.  SOTEXCO
is currently operating 22 ginneries (an additional six ginneries could be put
into operation) and accounts for about 25% of national cotton production.
2.20      ESTAGRICO's headquarters are in Kalemie, Shaba.  The company is
governed by a board and day-to-day operations are handled by a director
general residing in Kalemie who supervises cotton operations.  The company s
area of intervention (Map 15030R) is divided into two directorates: Tanganika
(for Tanganika and Haut-Lomami) and South Kivu (for Uvira).  ESTAGRICO employed
about 750 people at the time of appraisal, 200 of whom were extension workers.
The company operates eight ginneries and accounts for between 15 and 20% of
national cotton production.
2.21      COTON-ZAIRE operates out of headquarters located in Gemena, Equateur.
The company is headed by a director general, president of the board, who also



- 21 -
manages day-to-day operations. COTON-ZAIRE s area of intervention is divided
into five sectors and 11 subsectors. The company employs about 350 people,
of whom about 80 are in the extension service. COTON-ZAIRE is currently
operating Il ginneries and accounts for about 10% of national cotton production.
2.22      Creation of a mixed-capital company responsible for rehabilitation
of cotton operations in Southwest Shaba has been discussed in Government and
private circles. However, attempts at organizing this company have been
suspended for the time being because of disagreements between prospective
partners on their respective shares in the new company s capital.
Private Companies
2.23      Three purely private companies, DATSCO, MBAYO and TSHILOBO, continue
to operate in Shaba and Kasai-Occidental. These companies pursue diversified
activities, of which cotton marketing and ginning is one. They own five
ginneries and contribute less than one percent of national cotton production.
Cotton Research
2.24      Cotton research is conducted at three stations operated by INERA,
the national agricultural research organization (para 1.21): Bambesa, which
serves Haut-Zaire, Gandajika, which serves Kasai, Shaba, and Kivu, and Boketa,
which serves Equateur. The experimental work at these stations is limited
owing to lack of physical and financial resources. Gandajika is the principal
cotton research station and was responsible for the development of the new
variety "Zaire" which is currently being disseminated in the southern cotton
growing areas (para 2.04). The Bambesa station is currently conducting
comparative tests of varieties to identify a higher yielding variety for
the northern cotton growing areas; at present, experiments indicate the
superiority of a strain of the "Zaire" variety (Zaire 1832-115A). The Boketa
station, near Gemena, concentrates its experimentation on varieties used in
the Central African Republic. All stations produce basic seeds of the recom-
mended cotton varieties in addition to conducting cotton research; they also
experiment with varieties of rice, groundnuts, maize and cassava. The limited
activities of the research stations do not pose a short term obstacle to the
recovery of cotton production since the traditional varieties give satisfac-
tory yields if seed is pure and the new variety "Zaire" gives improved yields.
Furthermore, the cotton companies are supplementing the work of the INERA
stations by multiplying seeds for distribution by their extension services.
This approach is working successfully; for example, La COTONNIERE expects to
produce enough "Zaire" seed by 1984/85 to supply all farmers in its own area
and to provide ESTAGRICO with a start-up stock for its multiplication efforts.
In the long-term, cotton research needs strengthening, but this would be
accomplished within the framework of a rehabilitation program for the entire
research system (para 1.21).
Extension Services
2.25      Extension services for cotton producers are being provided by
the regional cotton companies in their areas of intervention. Extension
services are generally organized parallel to the technical services of the



- 22 -
companies (para 2.17) and are thus attached to ginnery posts. Extension
workers follow a strict schedule of visits with farmers and report regularly
to their superiors. In general, extension workers meet with their superiors
about every 10 days and with the sector agronomi.sts on a quarterly basis
to report on the number of planters visited and the progress of planting
or harvesting. The chief extension officers organize regular programs of
visits in their areas and thus keep informed about extension activities.
The quality of extension staff of the cotton companies is in general good.
However additional training seems necessary, particularly in the lower ranks
since staff either come from agricultural education schools which in general
do not provide sufficient training for practical purposes (para 1.22), or
staff were transferred from ONAFITEX which did not provide suitable on-the-job
training. The companies are therefore planning to carry out field training of
extension workers in order to improve their knowledge of cotton cultivation,
to prepare them for insecticide treatments, and to widen their knowledge so
that they can advise farmers on crops grown in rotation with cotton. La
COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO, ESTAGRICO, and COTON-ZAIRE employed about 400, 250, 200
and 80 extension workers, respectively at the end of 1980; this is equivalent
to an average density of about one agent per 350 farmers. The major constraint
impeding the efficient delivery of extension services in the cotton growing
areas is the acute lack of transport means; this would be addressed by the
proposed project. Cooperation with Government extension services exists in
some cases but depends on the attitude of local representatives of the
Department of Agriculture.
Development Constraints and Potential
2.26      The most important obstacles to the development of the cotton
sub-sector are lack of physical items such as spare parts for ginneries
and vehicles, insecticides and farm tools, as well as limited extension staff
and inadequate road maintenance. Although ginneries are only operating one
shift per day, breakdowns result in standstills amounting to about 15% of the
time. On the average it is estimated that only about 60% of the vehicles are
operational at any given moment because of material failures and lack of spare
parts. Bad roads contribute to the unsatisfactory condition of vehicles and
thus impede efficient marketing. The complete lack of insecticides results in
considerable losses of seed cotton, and insufficient farm tools prevent the
farmers from preparing and working their fields effectively.  Extension
services are hampered by the lack of bicycles and motorbikes for extension
personnel.
2.27      Nevertheless, the short-term potential for successful rehabilita-
tion of the cotton sub-sector is considerable. Since the creation of
CSCo and the regional cotton companies, cotton operations are again being
carried out in an orderly fashion, extension services are well organized and
the few inputs which are currently available are distributed systematically.
Further contributing to restoration of farmers confidence is the resumption
of support activities, such as supplies of commercial goods made available by
the companies at cost prices, reliable evacuation of agricultural products
other than cotton (e.g. maize, rice), and basic maintenance of roads, bridges
and ferries. If the achievements of the past few years are to be consolidated



- 23 -
and improved upon, however, rehabilitation of ginnery facilities, renewal of
transport fleet, regular road maintenance, and strengthening of the extension
services must take place. It was estimated at appraisal that if these con-
straints were successfully eliminated, cotton production in the areas of the
three mixed-capital cotton companies would increase to about 55,000 tons over
the next four to five years; total national production would then amount to
about 65,000 tons. To support such an increase, the Caisse de Stabilisation
Cotonniere prepared an emergency rehabilitation project (paras 3.01-3), which
addresses the urgent needs of the cotton subsector and in particular of the
mixed-capital cotton companies. Implementation of the proposed Project would
provide these companies with the means to carry out their cotton operations
and related development activities in an effective manner.
Bank Support to the Cotton Sub-Sector
2.28      The Bank Group has financed one project in the cotton sub-sector
that is being implemented in the Ubangi and Mongala sub-regions of Equateur.
The purpose of the First Cotton Rehabilitation Project was to improve ONAFITEX
management through the provision of technical assistance and in particular
to strengthen a relatively weak regional branch of this parastatal. The
Project was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1976, and the
US$8.0 million Credit (Cr. 660-ZR) became effective in May 1977. Project
implementation was seriously delayed by management problems experienced by
ONAFITEX, and operations were further disrupted by the dissolution of ONAFITEX
in May 1978 (para 2.14). This resulted in an uncertain legal environment,
disputes over the degree of autonomy to be exercised by the Belgian financed
technical assistance team, lack of local funds for operations and investments,
and substantial delays in procurement. An action program agreed upon by
Government and IDA resulted in the transformation of the Project Unit into a
parastatal company, COTON-ZAIRE (para 2.21), which assumed responsibility for
marketing, ginning, extension, and road rehabilitation activities in Equateur.
Since that time the situation has improved substantially. Essential invest-
ment items were delivered to the Project area, further equipment has been
ordered, the technical assistance team has been integrated in the company
with clear responsibilities, and the extension services were reorganized.
Government budget funds were released for investment counterparts and for
working capital, and COTON-ZAIRE is participating in the general cotton lint
distribution and sales system established by CSCo. Although COTON-ZAIRE
is managed satisfactorily, the training of local personnel needs to be
strengthened. Execution of the road component has also been weak, largely
due to delays in delivery of equipment. Cotton production is still low
but appears to be recovering (para 2.02). Further increases are expected for
the next two campaigns because of producer price increases and availability of
insecticides. The closing date of the Credit is December 31, 1982, by which
time COTON-ZAIRE would be transformed into a mixed capital company with the
textile companies as majority shareholders.



- 24 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
3.01      The proposed Project is a four-year time slice of a long-term cotton
rehabilitation program initiated by the Government in 1978. It will support
emergency rehabilitation of the three major companies--La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO,
ESTAGRICO-and thus complements the on-going Cotton Rehabilitation Project in
Equateur (para 2.27). The Project is expected to result in the definition
of concrete long-term measures for the recovery of cotton production in Zaire.
The three phases of the program are summarized below:
(a)  1978-1980:  a complete reorganization of the cotton
subsector with the objective of (i) regionalizing responsi-
bilities for cotton production and processing and entrusting
the management of these operations to private interests; and
(ii) limiting the Government-s involvement to coordination
and control functions; this phase has been completed;
(b)  1981-1984:  (i) implementation of the Project outlined in
Section B of this Chapter; (ii) completion of the partly
IDA-financed Cotton Rehabilitation Project in Equateur (para
2.27) and transformation of the parastatal regional company
responsible for Project implementation into a mixed capital
company (para 2.28); and (iii) creation of a mixed-capital
company responsible for rehabilitation of cotton operations
in Southwest Shaba (para 2.22); and
(c)  1985 and beyond: (i) consolidation of subsector organization
and management; and (ii) restructuring of production and
processing in accordance with the results of studies included
in the proposed Project (para 3.09) and provision of financing
for a corresponding investment program.
3.02      The broad rehabilitation program is already well advanced.  Between
1978 and 1980 the cotton subsector was substantially reorganized, resulting in
the creation of CSCo, the parastatal successor of ONAFITEX, and regional
cotton companies in charge of cotton production, marketing and ginning (para
2.14). Three of the four regional companies are mixed-capital companies with
majority participation of Zaire-s textile industry, and one is a state company
(paras 2.16-21). Although only negligible foreign and local funds were
available for investment between 1978 and 1980, the companies have managed to
put their technical installations back into adequate working condition and
have succeeded in providing more efficient and reliable extension and marketing
services; increases in cotton producer prices (para 2.09) have reinforced
their promotion activities. The principal constraints to cotton production
and subsector operations are: (a) lack of spare parts and equipment for
ginneries and workshops; (b) lack of vehicles and spare parts for vehicles;
(c) insufficiently maintained roads; (d) badly equipped and inadequately
staffed extension services; and (e) lack of agricultural tools and inputs.



- 25 -
3.03      The proposed Cotton Rehabilitation Project was elaborated by CSCo to
address these constraints. The main Project objectives are to increase cotton
production in the areas of the three major cotton companies from the current
level of 23,000 tons to about 55,000 tons within five years to substitute for
imports of cotton lint or textiles. Additional objectives are to stimulate
production of foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton and to improve living
conditions in cotton growing areas through amelioration of communications and
health services. Given the limited objectives, the emphasis on infrastructure
and equipment and the expected short disbursement period, the Project may be
considered an emergency operation to provide urgently needed foreign exchange
to the cotton industry. The components to be implemented over a four-year
period are summarized below:
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of ginneries by providing
spare parts and equipment for power engines and workshops;
(b) improvement of cotton marketing by renewal and expansion of
the cotton companies vehicle fleet;
(c) rehabilitation of road infrastructure by undertaking road
maintenance and bridge repair activities;
(d) strengthening of extension services by substantially in-
creasing the number of extension agents and supervisors,
training them, and providing them with vehicles;
(e) provision of agricultural tools and inputs for pest control; and
(f) studies to define medium- and long-term measures for restructuring
the cotton sub-sector, and audits of CSCo and cotton company
accounts.
Implementation of the measures proposed under the Project would be limited
to the zones of the three mixed capital companies, La COTONNIERE, ESTAGRICO
and SOTEXCO (paras 2.18-2.20), which account for 80 to 90% of Zaire's cotton
production. The other companies have not been included in the Project.
COTON-ZAIRE is already benefitting from sufficient internal and external
financing (paras 2.21, 2.28) and the small private companies--DATSCO, MBAYO,
and TSHILOBO (para 2.22)--have sufficient resources to continue managing
cotton operations in their areas and have therefore decided not to partici-
pate in the Cotton Rehabilitation Program.
B. Detailed Features
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Ginneries and Workshops
3.04      La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO, and ESTAGRICO are currently operating 47
ginneries, with 10 additional in working order. Stocks of ginnery spare parts
are almost non-existent, and frequent breakdowns are likely if needs are not
met. Under the Project, ginning facilities would be rehabilitated by supply
of the necessary spare parts and materials. The most urgently needed parts



- 26 -
and materials are for the gins (saws, combs, brushes, belts, bearings), fans,
trampers, presses, and pumps (bearings, pistons, joints, valves).  The power
engines and electrical systems of important ginneries that are old and
unreliable would be replaced, and workshop equipment for repair of ginneries
and vehicles (lathes, milling machines, welding sets, compressors, tools)
would be replaced or supplemented.  Incremental operating costs to be borne by
the cotton companies would be mainly salaries and fuel.
Improvement in Cotton Marketing Operations
3.05      Cotton marketing operations are currently constrained by the unreli-
ability and small size of the companies vehicle fleets. Under this Project,
a sufficient number of trucks for the cotton companies to carry out their
cotton marketing operations would be provided; these trucks would also be
used for marketing of food crops and commercial products. Additional light
vehicles would be provided to facilitate control of company activities other
than extension services. The main investment items would be about seventy
6-7 ton trucks and about thirty 9-10 ton trucks for marketing operations,
and about 60 light vehicles (4-wheel drive and pick-ups) for communications.
Furthermore, an adequate supply of spare parts for the vehicle fleet would
be provided (about 40% of the investment cost). Incremental operating costs
to be borne by the cotton companies would be salaries, fuel, and additional
spare parts.
Improvement and Maintenance of Roads
3.06      The Project would provide for the improvement of about 11,000 km
of earth roads, principally by manual methods, and for maintenance and repair
of bridges along these roads. Of the 11,000 km, about 4,300 are in the area
of La COTONNIERE, 4,700 in the area of SOTEXCO, and 2,000 in the area of
ESTAGRICO. The road and bridge rehabilitation program would be executed by
special units of the cotton companies (para 4.05) and agreements defining
each company's activities were concluded with CSCo, the Office des Routes
(OR), and the companies in 1980 and 1981.  The program includes all roads of
principal interest for cotton evacuation, among them many national trunk
roads, and would thus improve communications in the cotton areas in general.
The rehabilitation program will be updated in annual work plans prepared by
the cotton companies and OR. The main investment items would be dump-trucks,
4-wheel drive vehicles for the chief supervisors of the road works, motorbikes
for supervisors, and bicycles for foremen. Incremental operating costs would
be mainly salaries and fuel.
Strengthening of Extension Services
3.07      This component aims at increasing the number of extension workers
and providing vehicles, in-service training, and supervision. The number of
extension agents is planned to increase from a base of 850 for the zones ôf
the three cotton companies (late 1980) to about 1900 in 1984. This is equiva-
lent to an average density of about one agent per 150 farmers. This high
density is justified because of the difficult working conditions and the
expanded responsibilities of extension staff: (a) villages are small and



- 27 -
dispersed and transport is difficult; (b) intensive extension efforts will be
required during the cotton production recovery phase; and (c) cotton company
agents will provide advice on all crops grown in rotation with cotton. Staff
would be phased in according to available manpower and the output of training
schools; availability should not be a constraint for Project purposes. Means
of transport would be provided for extension staff and in-service training
would be organized by the cotton companies. Extension workers would be
supervised by mid-level and senior extension staff (A2 and A1); additional
supervision would be provided by other staff of the cotton companies and
through regular visits of CSCo staff in the cotton areas. The main investment
items would be 4-wheel drive vehicles and motorbikes for the supervisors, and
bicycles for the extension agents; bicycles and motorbikes would be extended
to extension staff on an individual loan basis. Incremental operating costs
would be mainly salaries and fuel.
Provision of Farm Tools and Inputs for Pest Control
3.08      Lack of pest control and insufficient supply of farm tools have
been partially responsible for the decrease of cotton yields in Zaire over
the past few years. The Project would aim at increasing the effectiveness
of cultivation methods employed by cotton farmers by improving the supply of
these inputs. The cotton companies would supply insecticides in the most
productive cotton growing areas; during the first two years, these insecticides
are provided under EDF financing arrangements. About 8,000 ha would be
treated in Project Year 2, increasing to about 15,000 ha in Project Year 4, or
approximately 13% of the total area under cotton. The area treated is expected
to be relatively small because (a) logistical problems with insecticide
distribution and with supervision of applications are substantial, and (b) the
economic viability of insecticide applications in medium or low potential
areas of Zaire is not clear. Insecticides would be applied after pest checks
by the extension services and under their supervision. Farm tools would be
provided to farmers for land clearing and other tasks related to cotton and
food crop cultivation. Most of the farm tools would originate in Zaire, but
during shortages, some orders might be placed with foreign suppliers. It is
estimated that about 370,000 liters of insecticides, 700 sprayers, 320,000
hoes, 320,00 machetes and 200,000 axes would be required during the Project
implementation period.
Studies
3.09      Studies would be carried out by consultants to analyze the sub-
sector's long-term needs and perspectives. These studies would investigate
future structural changes, focusing particularly on intensification of cotton
production in different high potential areas and on varietal research.
Detailed terms of reference would be submitted to IDA for approval before
consultants would be employed. Part of the study funds would also be used for
training courses and study trips of local personnel of CSCo and the cotton
companies. Objectives of studies, training courses, and trips as well as
resources required were discussed during negotiations.



- 28 -
C. Project Costs
3.10      Total Project costs are estimated at about SDR 34.1 million (US$39.3
million equivalent) of which about SDR 21.3 million (US$24.5 million equiva-
lent) or 63% represent foreign exchange costs. Incremental operating costs
for the rehabilitation program have been taken into account. The following
table presents a summary of Project costs, with a more detailed breakdown
appearing in Table 1:
US$-000
Project Component                                Local      Foreign      Total
Cotton ginning                                    2,317      4,304       6,621
Cotton marketing                                  4,169    11,556       15,725
Road and bridge rehabilitation                    4,246      1,734       5,980
Extension services                                1,709      1,237       2,946
Agricultural inputs                                 695      1,623       2,318
Studies                                             160      1,240       1,400
Total Base Costs                                 13,296    21,694       34,990
Contingency Allowances
Physical                                       112        687          799
Price                                        1,332      2,173        3,505
Total Contingencies                               1,444      2,860        4,304
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                              14,740    24,554        39,294
Project costs were estimated in October 1981 prices.  A physical contingency
of 5% was applied to all Project investment items except for spare parts to
reflect possible minor changes in quantities. Price contingencies were
applied on the costs of all goods and services on a cumulative basis at the
annual rates of 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982 and 7.5% thereafter. It was
assumed that the progressive devaluation of the Zaire currency will compensate
for increases in local costs. Taxes included in Project costs are negligible
since all items imported under the Credit would be exempt from taxes and
duties. Assurances to this effect would be sought at negotiations. The
amount of other taxes (e.g., sales taxes) would be small.
D. Financing
3.11      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:



- 29 -
US$           % of Total
(million)      Project Cost
IDA                                            11.3              29
EDF                                             6.8              17
CCCE                                            2.2               6
SOFIDE                                          1.1               3
Government of Zaire                             7.0              18
(Fonds de relance economique)
Cotton companies (La COTONNIERE,
SOTEXCO and ESTAGRICO)                       10.9              27
Total Project Cost                             39.3             100
The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 9.8 million (US$11.3 million equivalent) would
be to the Government of Zaire on standard IDA terms. The Credit would finance
about 45% of foreign-exchange costs and would cover foreign exchange expendi-
tures for investment items, including spare parts for vehicles. The expected
distribution of Credit proceeds is given in Table 4. Financing by the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the European Development Fund (EDF),
and SOFIDE (para 1.15) would also be limited to foreign exchange expenditures;
the EDF grant would finance about 30% of foreign exchange costs, the CCCE
credit about 10%, and the SOFIDE credit 5%. CCCE's and SOFIDE's participation
would finance vehicles only. The EDF grant would be for vehicles, spare parts,
an initial stock of insecticides, and materials for road works and extension
services. The Government of Zaire, utilizing economic recovery funds raised
from levies on textile products (para. 1.27), would finance all operating
costs and a small part of the investment costs of the road and extension
components, amounting to about 20% of total Project costs. The companies La
COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO and ESTAGRICO would finance the remainder, or about 25%,
of total Project costs largely consisting of incremental operating costs and
some additional investments. A breakdown of total Project costs as well as of
foreign, local, investment and operating costs by financing source is given in
Table 2. This breakdown is expressed in percentage terms in Table 3.
3.12      Agreements between the European Community and Zaire and between
CCCE and SOFIDE were concluded in October and December 1980, respectively.
SOFIDE, under IDA's fifth Credit line, approved a subproject for La COTONNIERE
on February 5, 1981. These agreements are satisfactory and additional co-
financing arrangements are not necessary. Agreements on utilization of
economic recovery funds were signed with La COTONNIERE in June 1980, with
ESTAGRICO in September 1980, and with SOTEXCO in December 1980. Since the
cotton companies' participation in the Project is merely an increase of their
regular operations no particular financing arrangements have to be concluded.



- 30 -
3.13      The objective of Project financing arrangements is to assure cover-
age of foreign exchange costs of investments, including spare parts for
vehicles. All local costs for investments as well as all operating costs
would be financed by local sources (para 3.11). However, certain operating
costs (materials and small equipment for road workers, farm tools, and
insecticides) covering the needs of about two years have been included in the
EDF financing proposal to facilitate Project start-up. Under the Project
financing arrangements, about 90% of foreign exchange costs for investments
and 15% of foreign exchange costs for incremental operations would be financed
from foreign sources. The remainder of foreign exchange costs, most of it for
incremental operating costs, would be financed out of Zaire's foreign exchange
resources. Part of the imported items used in operations are normally avail-
able in Zaire and can be purchased in local currency (e.g. fuel, lubricants,
construction and packing materials, certain spare parts). However, the
remainder is difficult to obtain and shortages of these items can result
in delays and interruptions of cotton operations. Assurances were therefore
obtained from Government during negotiations that sufficient foreign exchange
would be made available over the Project implementation period to enable the
cotton companies to carry out their operations efficiently.
3.14      The funds under the IDA Credit would be onlent by the Government of
Zaire to La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO, and ESTAGRICO. The amounts allocated to
each company would be determined on the basis of updated investment programs
provided by the companies; these amounts would be specified in subsidiary loan
agreements concluded between the Government and each company. Conclusion of
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and each of the cotton
companies and IDA approval of these agreements would be conditions of effec-
tiveness (para 3.17). Draft subsidiary loan agreements were discussed during
negotiations. The terms of the subsidiary loan agreements would be eight
years with a two-year grace period and at 15% annual interest. These terms
are based on expected equipment delivery dates, average economic life of
equipment, and standard interest rates currently applied by Zairian banks for
similar commercial operations. Despite high inflation rates, the on-lending
rate would be a positive real rate since the companies would bear the foreign
exchange risk associated with progressive devaluation of the Zaire currency.
Since the cotton companies would repay to Government earlier than Government
to IDA, the Zairian treasury would benefit from the liquidity generated.
Following the practice adopted under other IDA-financed projects the Govern-
ment of Zaire would determine the utilization of this liquidity.
3.15      The CCCE credit provides financing for 83 vehicles, about 45 of
which are trucks for cotton operations in Haut-Zaire. It is channeled through
SOFIDE and onlent to SOTEXKI, the majority shareholder of SOTEXCO. SOTEXKI
would lease the vehicles to SOTEXCO. The terms of the SOFIDE credit to
SOTEXKI have been defined as five years with a six-month grace period at 15%
interest rate. The SOFIDE credit to La COTONNIERE financed the purchase of 30
trucks. The credit is for four years with one year grace period at 15% annual
interest. EDF funds would be made available to Zaire as a grant. These funds
would finance insecticides, sprayers, and farm tools for use by cotton farmers.
In addition the cotton companies would purchase spare parts for (i) ginneries,
(ii) trucks for marketing, and (iii) light vehicles at the counter-value in Z
of the price CIF Matadi. The local funds resulting from this purchase would



- 31 -
be channelled through the CSCo to the Department of Plan to constitute an
account of counterpart funds. These would be used for financing local costs
of other agricultural projects in Zaire, not necessarily related to cotton
production. Release of these funds is based on an agreement between Govern-
ment and the EDF. Materials and equipment for road improvement and extension
services financed out of the EDF grant would remain Government property and
would be made available to the cotton companies without charge. Economic
recovery funds would be made available to the cotton companies to finance
operating costs and local counterpart costs of investments in road improvement
and extension services. Utilization of all materials and equipment financed
by the EDF and economic recovery funds would be controlled by the CSCo, which
has established a specialized section for monitoring local and foreign financ-
ing sources (para 4.11).
E. Procurement
3.16      Under the IDA Credit, contracts for the supply of material and
equipment exceeding US$ 100,000, estimated at about US$8.0 million including
contingencies, would be awarded after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for materials and equipment
each costing less than US$100,000, amounting to about US$0.5 million, would be
awarded following limited international tendering with the proviso that bids
should be sought from at least three suppliers of different nationalities.
The rules outlined above would not apply to specialized spare parts for
existing ginnery equipment and the existing vehicle fleet; for these parts,
direct orders amounting to a total of not more than US$1.4 million would be
placed with the suppliers. It is estimated that vehicles would account for
US$4.0 million, vehicle spare parts for US$2.8 million, and ginnery parts for
US$3.1 million. The estimated allocations by investment category are presented
in Table 4. CSCo would be responsible for handling all procurement matters in
close coordination with the three companies and would bulk contracts for the
three companies to the extent possible. A satisfactory agreement between CSCo
and the three companies on procurement of items financed under the Credit was
concluded at negotiations. Since the items to be procured would be limited in
number, of similar type for all companies, and well defined in updated invest-
ment programs, it is expected that the invitations to bid could be grouped in
one or two international tenders which would be published during the first and
second Project years (Chart 2). IDA would approve final terms of reference
and contracts for consultants hired to conduct studies (para 3.09), and
assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Consultant and
auditor fees were estimated at US$12,000 per month.
F. Disbursement
3.17      Funds from the IDA Credit account would be disbursed over three
years against (a) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures and 90% of local
expenditures for vehicles, vehicle spare parts, ginnery spare parts (including
power engines and generators), and workshop equipment, and (b) 100% of foreign



- 32 -
exchange expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for costs of consultants
(para 3.09) and auditors (para 3.18). Disbursements would be fully documented.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that CSCo would sign disbursement
applications prepared by each of the companies for its respective allocation
of Credit proceeds. An estimated schedule of IDA disbursements is given in
Table 5.
G. Accounts and Audits
3.18      Parastatals and mixed-capital companies are not routinely audited in
Zaire. However, Government financial control procedures exist for companies
with Government participation, and records and accounts are reviewed by
accounting specialists appointed for this task. This control of accounts is
not carried out regularly, and it is frequently difficult for the companies
involved to receive the reports prepared by the accountants. The application
of regular accounting procedures to the three cotton companies has been
complicated by the complex circumstances surrounding their legal creation
(para 2.16). Despite the legal vacuum existing between November 1978 and
March 1981, regular accounts have been kept by the companies since 1979, and
balance sheets for 1979 have been compiled. The accounts appear to be well
kept. La COTONNIERE has submitted its 1979 financial statements to financial
controllers appointed by the Portfolio Department and by the private share-
holders. The financial statements were approved by the controllers without
particular comments. The 1980 financial statements of the three companies and
CSCo are available and 1981 financial statements are under preparation.
CSCo-s accounts appear to be well kept. Accounting records were submitted to
the authorities for the period August 1978 (the date of its creation) to
December 1979 and for 1980. CSCo-s financial statements have not yet been
analyzed by financial controllers.  In order to provide for adequate financial
records of Project implementation, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that (i) during the Project implementation period the annual financial state-
ments of the three cotton companies and of CSCo would be audited by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii) the audited financial statements
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
Since it cannot be expected that during this period a satisfactory local audit
capacity will be established in Zaire, foreign exchange costs of the audits
would be eligible for financing out of Credit proceeds. Until 1979 no audit
was carried out for the first Cotton Rehabilitation Project (para 2.28)
because of substantial deficiencies in the accounts. An audit for 1980 was
carried out in mid-1981. The audit report has been submitted in February
1982.
H. Environmental Impact
3.19      No adverse environmental impact is expected under the Project.  In
fact, the introduction of ULV sprayers for applying insecticides to the
cotton crop is expected to have environmental benefits by limiting farmer
exposure to chemicals and by reducing soil contamination. Any negative



- 33 -
environmental impacts of insecticide applications are expected to be neglig-
ible, as the area treated will only amount to about 15,000 ha by the end of
the four-year project period--or about 13% of the area planted with cotton.
Furthermore, since cotton is planted in rotation with other crops and on
scattered holdings, treatments would not be concentrated on the same fields
over a period of years and increased dosages would not be required to control
insecticide resistant populations. A positive impact can also be expected
from ginnery rehabilitation, which will result in the improved performance of
suction fans and trampers, thus reducing considerably the direct exposure of
workers to cotton dust.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      La COTONNIERE, ESTAGRICO, and SOTEXCO would be principally respon-
sible for Project implementation. CSCo would supervise Project activities
and would oversee subsector operations. CSCoas board of directors (para
4.14) would assure coordination of policy and Government involvement in
the cotton subsector. Subsector organization is presented in Chart 1.
A. The Cotton Companies
4.02      The cotton companies would carry out all Project components except
studies: cotton marketing, ginning operations, distribution of agricultural
inputs, extension, and road maintenance. They would be responsible for ship-
ping vehicles, equipment, spare parts, and agricultural inputs from the port
of arrival to destinations in the cotton areas. The companies would also
maintain and repair all vehicles and equipment procured under the Project and
would keep adequate stocks of spare parts in their workshops. The companies
have a sufficient number of trained technicians who are currently carrying
out maintenance of the equipment available. La COTONNIERE has four major
workshops; SOTEXCO, two; and ESTAGRICO, one; these workshops serve both the
vehicle fleet and the ginneries.
4.03      The cotton companies would be responsible for ginning operations,
including storage of seed cotton at the ginneries, ginning of seed cotton,
and packing of cotton lint. The management of these activities is not ex-
pected to pose any major problems for the cotton companies, since they are
well staffed for ginnery operations and since delivery of the first lot of
ginnery spare parts under the Project is expected during the first half of
1982.
4.04      The cotton companies would be responsible for the purchase and
evacuation of seed cotton, timely provision of cotton seed to farmers, and
transport of cotton lint to CSCo's transit points. The current marketing
organization of the companies is effective for carrying out these activities;
however, shortages of vehicles are likely to hamper operations during the
first Project year. Thereafter the vehicle fleet should be adequate to
handle the production volume.



- 34 -
4.05      Road rehabilitation and bridge repair works would be carried out by
special organizational units set up and managed by the cotton companies. The
units of La COTONNIERE and SOTEXCO would be supervised by expatriate experts
recruited by these companies; supervision of ESTAGRICO's unit would be shared
between ESTAGRICO's staff and OR staff who would visit the roads and bridges
regularly. In the areas of La COTONNIERE and ESTAGRICO, company staff in the
road units would carry out manual road maintenance and minor bridge repairs,
while major repairs requiring mechanized equipment would be carried out by
local OR branches on the basis of annual work plans agreed upon by these
institutions. This division of responsibilities has been codified in agree-
ments between CSCo, OR, and La COTONNIERE, ESTAGRICO and SOTEXCO (para 3.06).
4.06      Extension services would be organized as specialized departments
of the cotton companies and would be managed by the latter on behalf of the
Government.  Senior agronomists (A 1) and agronomists (A2) would supervise
extension workers and would provide in-service training. During the Project
implementation period, the companies would continue to supplement the basic
knowledge of extension workers acquired in agricultural schools by providing
on-the-job training based on a modified T and V system. This training pro-
gram is satisfactory and will be strengthened and refined under the Project.
In areas where other developmenit projects or the Government operate sepa-
rate extension services, efforts would be made to assign sub-regional exten-
sion responsibilities in order to avoid duplication of efforts and wastage
of resources.  In the Mbuji Mayi area where La COTONNIERE and the Small-
holder Maize Project (Cr. 1040-ZR) both operate, an agreement has been
reached that their respective agents would provide extension advice on the
whole range of smallholder crops in well-defined and separate areas. Such
a division of responsibilities is also under consideration in Tanganika,
where ESTAGRICO and Project North Shaba (partially financed by USAID) both
operate extension services.
4.07      The cotton companies would supply farmers with the necessary farm
tools (hoes, axes and machetes) for land clearing and weeding as the number
of local traders decreased substantially in the rural areas following the
zairianization measures of 1973-74 (para 1.11). The cotton companies would
sell these tools to farmers at cost prices plus a notional operating margin;
provision of these tools is part of the promotional campaign to rekindle
interest in cotton production. The cotton companies would supply ULV insec-
ticides and sprayers, and the farmers would treat their fields under the
supervision of the extension services; initially, staff of the insecticide
suppliers would provide advice. The treatments would be limited to farmers
in the most productive areas and would be provided free during the first two
Project years in order to create a demonstration effect; EDF would finance
these insecticides. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would define mechanisms for cost-recovery from cotton farmers for
insecticides and submit a proposal in this respect to IDA by July 31, 1983 for
review.
4.08      Although other activities of the cotton companies have not been
evaluated in detail, they are expected to play an increasingly important role
in the future. Cotton companies intend to begin marketing products other
than cotton in order to use efficiently the transport capacity made available
under the Project. This would stimulate food crop production in more remote



- 35 -
areas where production for the market has virtually ceased because of market-
ing insecurity. Rehabilitation of existing oil mills and rice processing
plants is planned to take advantage of anticipated production increases. The
cotton companies also plan to rehabilitate abandoned dispensaries.
4.09       The organization and staffing of La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO, and
ESTAGRICO are described in paras 2.17-20. The three cotton companies have
sufficient ginnery and marketing staff to initiate the Project. Over the
Project implementation period, no additional high level professionals (ex-
-patriate or Zairian) will be needed. However, with increased cotton produc-
tion and introduction of a second shift (at 40,000 t seed cotton), additional
ginnery workers will have to be hired. It is estimated that during the
Project implementation period ginnery and marketing staff will increase by
about 20%. The staff increase for road rehabilitation activities and extension
services will be more substantial. The salaries of both extension and road
workers are financed by economic recovery funds (para 3.11).  Over the four-
year period, a total of about 5,800 road workers, 240 foremen, 70 supervisors,
and five chiefs of operations would be recruited.  Extension staff required
for Project implementation include about 1,900 extension agents, 50 agrono-
mists, and 15 senior agronomists. The hiring of these staff would be phased
in over the Project implementation period according to available manpower
(para 3.07). At appraisal, 850 extension workers, 25 agronomists, 8 senior
agronomists, and 1,850 road workers had been recruited.
B. CSCo
4.10       CSCo would play a key role in Project implementation.  It would
supervise Project activities, monitor Project progress, and prepare inter-
national tenders, orders, and disbursement applications in conjunction with
the cotton companies. CSCo would also be responsible for preparing terms of
reference and hiring consultants to carry out studies on future structural
changes in the cotton subsector (para 3.09). The terms of reference for
these studies would be submitted for IDA approval before employment of con-
sultants (para 3.09).
4.11       Appropriate procedures for monitoring Project progress are already
to a large extent in place. The cotton companies keep weekly records on
production, marketing, and ginning. The companies also follow the develop-
ment of the number of cotton farmers, area planted and harvested, yields,
and revenues from cotton. Suxmmaries of these records are regularly trans-
mitted to CSCo which aggregates the information in order to follow the country-
wide development of cotton activities. CSCo would continue this activity
under the Project and would, in addition, keep records on the different
financing sources available to the cotton subsector. The specialized financial
section of CSCo's Department of Finance and Administration (para 4.13) would
handle these activities. Efforts would also be made to follow more closely
the development of farmers incomes, expenditures, and changes in farming
systems. On the basis of this information, CSCo would submit a semi-annual
report on Project progress to IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.



- 36 -
4.12      CSCo organizes weekly meetings of representatives of the cotton
and textile companies to discuss lint prices, financing of cotton purchases,
distribution of cotton lint, remuneration of CSCo-s marketing efforts, and
other issues affecting the two groups. These meetings have been very useful
for coordinating activities and resolving operational issues; they would be
continued during the Project period.
4.13      CSCo is an effective institution whose staff and organization are
capable of handling its Project responsibilities. CSCo employed 55 staff
as of March 1981; additional support staff may be needed for its administra-
tion section and marketing offices during the Project period to handle the
increased work load resulting from greater cotton production levels. CSCo-s
operational effectiveness was strengthened in early 1981 by the creation of a
special section in its Department of Finance and Administration to monitor
financial sources available to the subsector and to keep track of the utiliza-
tion of economic recovery funds for road rehabilitation and extension services.
CSCo worked without an officially appointed Board of Directors for about two
and half years. The presidential decree nominating the members of the Board
was issued in January 1982 and the Board has been functioning since that time.
One of the Board's first tasks will be to elect a management council and to
appoint the commercial director (para 2.15). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would at all times keep the general manager s
and the three directors positions filled with qualified and experienced
staff. CSCo's Board of Directors will coordinate cotton and textile subsector
activities and foreign aid to the cotton subsector.
C. Project Implementation Schedule
4.14      The Project would be implemented over four years.  The investment
items financed by the EDF, SOFIDE, and CCCE are expected to be delivered in
1981/82, the first two Project years. The IDA Credit is expected to become
effective in September 1982. Vehicles and vehicle spare parts financed under
the IDA Credit are expected to be delivered in 1983/1984 and the ginneries and
workshop items, in 1984/1985. The IDA Credit should thus be fully disbursed
within a maximum of three years since investment needs are well known and
equipment orders and international tenders can be easily grouped. The Project
Implementation Schedule is presented in Chart 2.
D. Project Completion Report
4.15      Towards the close of the Project period, the Government would
prepare a Project Completion Report summarizing performance under the Project
and evaluating its successes and problems. This report would be submitted
to IDA not later than six months after the expected closing date (June 30,
1986). Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.



- 37 -
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Technical Features
5.01      Cotton is grown north and south of the Equator in areas located on
the border of the forest of the Zaire Basin and extending into the adjoining
tree savannah area. In the Northern Hemisphere the cotton growing areas are
situated between 20 and 50 northern latitude and altitudes range between 500
and 1,200 m. In the Southern Hemisphere, cotton is grown east of Ilebo be-
tween 2  and 90 southern latitude, excluding south-eastern Shaba and altitudes
above 1000 m (Map IBRD 15029). Within these areas climatic conditions are
favorable for cotton growing.  Rainfall ranges from 1,000 to 1,900 mm per year
with 110 to 170 days of useful rainfall. The dry season lasts from two to
four months; in the southern hemisphere it occurs during the months of May
through August, and in the northern hemisphere from December to March. In
none of the cotton growing areas is temperature a limiting factor. Average
monthly temperature ranges from 170 to 260C with absolute minima and maxima
between 10 0C and 38 C. Natural soil fertility varies greatly in the cotton
growing areas, ranging from poor sandy soils to lateritic soils of medium
fertility, to fertile colluvial bottom lands and alluvial deposits. Lateritic
soils are predominant, forming a large belt around the Zaire basin; within
this soil group fertility depends mostly on the clay content. In general,
soil fertility is better in the forest than in the savannah due to higher
organic matter content.
5.02      In Zaire, cotton has traditionally been grown by smallholders in
rotation with food crops (e.g. maize, rice, groundnuts, cassava, plantain).
Cotton is incorporated into the traditional cultivation systems which are
based on the slash and burn method. Each year, a small plot of land is
cleared and planted in succession with different food crops until soil fertil-
ity is exhausted; then the land is left fallow for five to ten years until
soil fertility has built up again. In general, the area of land under cul-
tivation at any one time is about four times larger than the area cleared each
year. The main drawback of this method is the high labor requirement for
land clearing, which limits the area which a family can handle to about 1.5-2
ha. At present, about 90,000 ha of cotton are under cultivation on holdings
averaging about 30 ares. Cultivation techniques utilized by smallholders
are less than satisfactory. The time of sowing is frequently delayed, and
the density of plants per ha is too low (30-35,000/ha); plants are erratically
thinned, and weeding is done once at most. Tools consist primarily of the
machete, axe and hoe; inputs such as pesticides and fertilizer are rarely
applied due to limited availability. As a result, average yields currently
are less than 300 kg/ha.
5.03      During colonial times, farmers were obliged to grow minimum areas
of cash and food crops. In cotton growing areas, farmers had to grow at least
0.5 ha of cotton. Imposition of these minimum areas has never been officially



- 38 -
abolished, but has largely ceased in practice, due to administrative con-
straints. This is reflected in the size of average cotton holdings (para
5.02) which are substantially smaller than the required 0.5 ha. The cotton
companies do not rely on imposition but rather en extension services, improved
marketing, and supply of inputs and consumer goods to motivate farmers to
grow cotton.
5.04      Under the Project a three-pronged cotton production improvement
strategy would be followed: (i) promotion of appropriate cultivation methods
by the strengthened extension services of the cotton companies; (ii) multi-
plication and dissemination of new cotton varieties and of good basic seeds
of traditional varieties; and (iii) provision of farm tools, insecticides,
and sprayers. The cultivation techniques recommended to smallholders would
consist of (a) planting cotton at the onset of the rains; (b) cultivating
stands of 50,000 to 60,000 plants per ha; (c) thinning stands to two plants
per hole; and (d) conducting one to two weedings. If these cultivation
methods are followed, a seed cotton yield of 400 to 600 kg/ha can be expected,
according to soil fertility. Under the Project, multiplication and dissemina-
tion of traditional and improved varieties would be undertaken to address the
serious deterioration of Reba B-50 and NC-8 seeds currently used by cotton
farmers. In northern areas, supplies of pure Reba B-50 seed, obtained from
the Bambesa research station (para 2.23), would be disseminated to cotton
farmers. in southern areas, the new variety "Zaire" with substantially higher
yields (para 2.04) is being disseminated and would gradually replace NC-8 by`-
the end of the Project period. Dissemination of "Zaire" began in the areas
of La COTONIERE in 1978 and in the areas of ESTAGRICO in 1980. Insecticides
and application equipment (ultra low volume formulas) would be provided to
cotton farmers in selected cotton growing areas with the highest production
potential. Some 8,000 ha would be treated in the second year of Project
implementation, increasing to about 15,000 ha, or 13% of the cotton areas, by
the end of the Project period. Under the Project, the cotton companies would
market agricultural tools to farmers, as limited availability is a constant
problem in rural areas. This three-pronged production strategy, in combina-
tion with the improved marketing activities of the cotton companies (para
3.05), is anticipated to result in an increase of cotton production to
about 55,000 t of seed cotton in the areas of the three mixed-capital cotton
companies.
5.05      Four simple farm models have been considered representative of
the principal cotton growing areas covered by the Project; each represents
a mixed farm of about one ha with varying combinations of cotton and food-
crops. At full development, cotton yields are expected to reach about 450
kg/ha of seed cotton without the use of insecticides and about 775 kg/ha with
the use of insecticides. Yield increases without the use of insecticides
would result from the adoption of improved cultivation practices and improved
seeds; insecticides would only be applied in high potential areas equivalent
to about 13% of fields planted with cotton. Estimates of yield increases and
size of holdings are summarized below by zone:



- 39 -
COTTON YIELDS                       COTTON HOLDINGS
Without   With Project/       With Project       Without       With
Zone             Project  No Insecticides  and Insecticides    Project    Project
-----------------kg/ha--------------------    -----(ha) -----
Haut-Zaire         270           400                700              0.27        0.4
Kasai-Oriental
Tanganika        360           450               810               0.35        0.5
Maniema            370           430                770              0.35        0.5
South Kivu         380           460                820              0.36        0.5
(Uvira)
Foodcrops included in the crop rotations are maize, cassava, plaintain,
groundnuts, sweet potatoes, vegetables, and paddy.  Foodcrop yields, with the
exception of maize, are not expected to increase due to the lack of good
planting material; maize yields in Kasai-Oriental and Tanganika are antici-
pated to increase from 800 kg/ha to 1,200 kg/ha, due to the availability of
improved maize seed from on-going development projects in the area. In
addition to fooderops and cotton, livestock is included in the farm model for
South Kivu (Uvira).
B. Production Estimates
5.06      Cotton production in the zones of SOTEXCO, La COTONNIERE, and
ESTAGRICO is expected to increase as a result of an expansion in area planted
with cotton and increases in yields; the number of farmers is expected to
remain fairly constant. Increases in yields and holding size reflect the
movement of Zaires cotton farmers back into the marketing system after a
period of predominantly subsistence production provoked by the disorganized
services and low prices of the 1970s. The area planted with cotton is
expected to increase from about 78,000 ha to about 112,000 ha over the
Project period. This expansion in area combined with improved cultivation
techniques, improved seeds and the use of insecticides on about 15,000 ha
would result in total production of about 55,000 t of seed cotton by the end
of the Project period. This represents an incremental production increase of
about 29,000 t of seed cotton over the 1980 production. About 24,000 t of
the incremental production increase can be attributed to the increase in area
planted, the improved seeds and the adoption of improved cultivation tech-
niques and about 5,000 t to the use of insecticides. Production is expected
to decrease by about 5,700 t during the first year of Project implementation
compared to 1980 due to serious pest infestations in parts of Haut Zaire and
to reductions in area planted with cotton in the Mbuji Mayi-Gandajika zone as
a result of delays in the evacuation of the 1980 cotton harvest (due to vehicle
constraints) and the low producer price for seed cotton (para 2.02). The
proposed measures to promote cotton production are also expected to have an



- 40 -
food production; the main factors would be the improvement in road conditions
and the improvement of marketing operations. Production increases are
expected from an increase in the area planted, not from increases in yields
(para 5.05), provided that food crop marketing is organized adequately during
the Project implementation period. The cotton companies are expected to use
their trucking capacity for food crop marketing during periods where it is not
required for cotton transport. Whereas preliminary estimates indicate that
additional food crop production in the Project areas could amount to as much
as 200,000 tons of cassava, 50,000 tons of maize and 10,000 tons of paddy
and groundnuts, these increases have not been taken into account in calculat-
ing economic benefits because of the uncertainties regarding food crop marketing
(para 7.03).
C. Farmers Benefits
5.07      About 245,000 farm families are expected to benefit to some extent
from Project activities.  Increased family incomes would result from the
adoption of improved cultivation techniques recommended by the strengthened
extension services. Improved marketing of both cotton and foodcrops, improved
communication with urban areas due to road and bridge rehabilitation works,
and improved availability of consumer goods are expected to constitute addi-
tional incentives for farmers to expand areas under cultivation and to increase
marketed production. Current cash income of farm families in the cotton areas
is estimated at about US$50. At full Project development, cash incomes
would be expected to increase to about US$120 for families not benefitting
from insecticide treatments and about US$170 for families receiving such
inputs. About 13% of cotton farmers in high potential areas would benefit
from insecticide applications. Variations in cash income by region would be
observed under the Project, reflecting greater accessibility to consumer
markets in Kasai Oriental, Tanganika, and South Kivu (Uvira); estimates of
increases in family income by zone are summarized below:
ZONE                                       CASH INCOMES
Without    With Project/       With Project and
Project    No Insecticides       Insecticides
(s)            ($)                   ($)
Haut-Zaire                       25               60                  100
Kasai-Tanganika                  40              145                  205
Maniema                          40              130                  185
South Kivu (Uvira)               85              140                  195
The relatively high income levels in Uvira are largely attributable to the
proximity of the Burundian market; the low incomes of farm families in Haut-
Zaire are due to the difficult transport conditions.



- 41 -
D. Marketing
5.08      Incremental cotton production from the Project would be marketed
by the cotton companies under existing arrangements which are considered
satisfactory (para 2.06). Marketing will not pose particular problems if
equipment and spare parts delivery takes place as scheduled under the
Project. The incremental production resulting from the Project in 1985
is estimated at about 34,000 tons of seed cotton, equivalent to about 12,600
tons of cotton lint. Total national production in 1985 would be about 65,000
tons of seed cotton, equivalent to about 24,000 tons of cotton lint. Zaire's
textile industry is currently working at about 50% of its installed capacity
of 21,000 tons of lint. A textile rehabilitation program is currently being
studied (para 2.13), and, if acted upon, the textile industry should be cap-
able of using its installed capacity effectively by 1985. In addition, an
action program was discussed during negotiations which aims at improving
marketing of locally produced textiles. This action program was motivated by
the sudden drop in sales of the local textile industry in late 1981 princi-
pally because of massive imports of cheap textiles. Most of the incre-
mental production from the Project would thus be utilized by the local textile
industry and the remainder could be exported. Existing marketing arrangements
for cotton lint are satisfactory and are not expected to pose any particular
problems in the future. As part of its overall control function and to
assure equitable distribution of scarce lint between the textile mills, CSCo
organizes transport of bales from transit points near the ginneries to the
textile plants; transport is carried out by public enterprises, mostly the
National Transport Agency (ONATRA) and the Zairian National Railway Company
(SNCZ).  Although delays sometimes occur, lint delivery has been fairly
regular. Public transport services used are expected to improve over the next
few years because of better ONATRA and SNCZ management, resulting from on-going
and planned projects. 1/
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01      Financial analysis of the Project is complicated by two factors:
(a) the limited time perod during which the cotton companies have operated,
and (b) the rapidly changing financial and economic environment. At the time
of appraisal, only the 1979 financial statements were available. These
statements, although prepared in line with generally accepted accounting
practices in Zaire, do not provide a sound basis for financial projections
since they reflect only the first year's operations under very special
conditions. Even if financial statements of several consecutive fiscal years
were available, they would be a questionable basis for medium-term financial
projections since (a) Zaire is facing high inflation rates and has committed
itself to frequent adjustments of the official exchange rate of its currency;
and (b) in early 1981, the cotton pricing policy was changed substantially
through complete liberalization of prices of cotton lint and textiles and
definition of seed cotton prices as minimum prices instead of fixed prices
(para 2.09-11). The financial results will thus depend more than in the past
on the pricing policy adopted by the individual cotton companies.
1/   e.g. the planned ONATRA Modernization Project.



- 42 -
6.02      Given the limiting factors outlined above, one set of combined
financial projections was established for the two southern cotton companies
(La COTONNIERE and ESTAGRICO) in order to provide a representative forecast of
financial indicators. These two companies operate in geographic areas with the
same cotton growing season and their financial flows during one year are there-
fore comparable. SOTEXCO, on the other hand, has a growing season which is
defered by about six months from that of the southern companies. Therefore
the seasonal high points in the financing and operating requirements give the
largest commitment of resources required by the cotton companies participating
in the Project. The analysis was carried out in constant 1981 US$ which can
be expected to provide as realistic results as forecasts over several years
projecting local inflation rates and adjustments of the official exchange rate
of the Zaire currency. Costs and revenues were projected on the basis of (i)
the companies budgets for 1981 and (ii) the production forecasts in this
report. It was assumed that because of price liberalization, relative seed
cotton prices would increase by 10% per year in real terms.
6.03      The following pattern of cotton purchases, ginning and sales was
assumed:
July  Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Nov.- Dec.  Jan.  Feb.  March  April  May  June
Seed cotton
purchases (%)   30   30    20       10    10    -
Seed cotton
ginned (%)        -   20    30      30    10   10      -          -          -     -      -
Cotton lint
delivered (%)    -    -    20       30    30   10    10       -      -       -     -      -
Cotton lint
arrived at
textile mill
and paid          -    -      -      -    20   30    30    10       10       -     -      -
1/   Month of peak utilization of resources and therefore closing month of
accounts for purposes of the analysis.
An analysis on a monthly basis shows that the peak month of resource utiliza-
tion is November, and the projected balance sheets (Table 8) are therefore
based on the month of November (the actual accounting year of all cotton compan-
ies is January 1 - December 31). As the above chart shows, seed cotton pur-
chases in the south of Zaire are carried out in one fiscal year while lint pro-
duced from this seed cotton is sold during the next fiscal year. An exception
is the first Project year where it was assumed that, because of lack of invest-
ments and spare parts, 20% of the lint production of the previous year could



- 43 -
not be sold by the end of the fiscal year.  The value of initial fixed assets
was estimated at US$1 million to which Project investments were added over the
implementation period. The short term financing needs and the corresponding
interest expense in the income statements are based on the monthly utilization
of resources shown above.
6.04      Detailed financial statements are given in Tables 6-8.  The most
important indicators are summarized below.
Southern Cotton Companies
Projected Financial Indicators
(US$ million)
Project Years
Income Statements and Cash Flow                   1         2        3          4
Sales of cotton lint (tons)                    5,328    7,382    8,460    10,620
Sales of cotton lint                            22.2     30.8      38.5       44.3
Operating costs                                 21.7      27.8     34.4       38.3
Depreciation                                     0.5       1.0      1.5        2.0
Net income before taxes                          0.3       2.5      3.5        5.0
Net income after taxes                           0.2       1.2      1.8        2.5
Debt service                                     0.2       0.6      1.8        2.8
Net Cash Flow                                    0.5       1.6      1.5        2.7
Balance Sheets
Current assets                                  28.9      32.5     40.7       43.3
Short term debt                                 26.2      29.5     34.6       33.0
Net fixed assets                                 1.6       2.6      3.1        3.1
Medium term debt                                 1.1       1.8      4.2        6.5
Share Capital                                    3.0       3.0      3.0        3.0
Retained earnings                                0.2       0.8      2.0        3.9
Ratios
Current (current assets/current liabilities   110          110      118        131
Debt/equity (medium term debt/capital           26:74    32:68    46:54       49:51
and retained earnings)
Debt service coverage (net income after
taxes plus interest/debt service)              4.5      4.2       2.2        2.0
6.05      The current ratio is relatively low at the seasonal high point but
appears sufficient, since most of the current assets at the year s end are
stocks of cotton lint already under way to the textile mills or ready for
delivery. During the Project implementation period the cotton companies are
expected to have a guaranteed market because of the continuing cotton scarcity,
and most current assets can be considered highly liquid and adequate to cover
the short term debts. The term debt/equity ratio is expected to increase over



- 44 -
the implementation period because of substantial investments under the IDA
Credit. The debt service coverage in general is ample but fluctuates between
2.0 and 4.5. The initial working capital of the companies was provided by the
private shareholders in 1978 as part of their participation in equity. It has
not been increased since then and during 1980 the companies encountered short
term financing difficulties since they did not have access to commercial bank
financing due to their unsatisfactory legal basis. This situation has changed
by official creation of the companies. However it cannot be expected that the
commercial banks are ready to finance all short term needs. Seed cotton
purchases are financed through banking consortia under guarantee of the textile
mills. It was assumed that the companies would have access to overdraft
facilities to finance seasonal peaks in working capital requirements but would
finance from their own resources basic working capital corresponding to most of
the fixed costs as defined by the standardized budget presentation of the
companies. The companies are expected to generate some of the necessary
resources internally but in order to guarantee smooth operation, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that working capital requirements would be
regularly reviewed by the shareholders and that the working capital for each
company (cash, accounts receivable within twelve months, marketable securities,
unused lines of credit and other assets due within twelve months) would at all
times be kept at or above a level corresponding to four months of estimated
fixed operating costs. For this purpose fixed operating costs are defined as
all operating costs except for seed cotton purchases, costs directly propor-
tional to seed cotton marketing and ginning, costs incurred for extension
services and road maintenance, and depreciation.
Financial Risks
6.06      The main financial risk would be short-term financing problems
because of (a) increased working capital needs due to substantial production
increases, and (b) sudden increases of input prices and debt service due to
devaluations which are expected to take place in Zaire from time to time.
This risk is expected to be reduced over the Project implementation period
through accumulation of appropriate reserves. An additional safeguard would
be the regular review of working capital needs by the shareholders and
maintenance of an adequate liquidity level (para. 6.05).
Financial Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6.07      Based on the above projections, the base financial rate of return
of the southern cotton companies would be 34% over a 6-year period. By that
time most of the equipment acquired under the Project would be out of use.
The rate is high since only a small investment is needed for rehabilitation
purposes and since the production potential as well as the experience in
cotton growing, marketing, and processing exists and therefore a relatively
quick recovery can be expected. The financial rate of return is very sensitive
to changes in net revenues: it would become negative if revenues decreased by
10% entailing a decrease in costs of about 6%.
Government Cash Flow and Foreign Exchange Earnings
6.08      The Government cash flow as shown in Table 9 is positive through
Year 6 and negative thereafter. However, the negative amounts are small



- 45 -
and would probably be balanced by additional tax earnings from corporate and
excise taxes. These taxes have not been taken into account since the basis
for a long-term projection did not appear sufficient. Government net foreign
exchange earnings and/or savings would be considerable. Over the four
year Project implementation period, the savings from incremental cotton lint
production would exceed the foreign exchange requirements for its production
by about US$24 million. The net foreign exchange earnings and/or savings
would be about US$17 million per year (in constant 1981 prices) after the
implementation period.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would support the Government's objective of increasing
cotton production and supplying the local cotton industry with the necessary
raw materials to operate at full capacity. Production in the Project areas
is expected to increase from the current level of about 23,000 tons to about
55,000 tons. It is estimated that about 5,600 additional staff would be
employed by the cotton companies and about 24,000 incremental farmer years
would be spent in farming activities.
Basic Assumptions
7.02      The economic life of the Project is assumed to be 20 years.  The
economic costs were calculated in US dollars in accordance with Project
cost estimates. All investments and incremental operating costs were taken
into account including seed cotton purchases, input supplies, marketing,
and ginning. Fifty percent of incremental operating costs of road improvement
and extension services were taken into account since their benefits would
accrue to other agricultural and commercial activities as well. Incremental
costs do not include price contingencies, taxes or subsidies but do include
physical contingencies on investments. It was assumed that without the
Project, some reinvestments would be made in installations and vehicles and
that operating costs would slightly decrease. This would correspond to an
estimated slight decrease and subsequent stabilization of seed cotton produc-
tion. Since all incremental costs were expressed in international prices,
the local cost elements were shadow priced. The shadow exchange rate applied
was US$1 = Z 5.8 as opposed to the official rate of US$l = Z 2.9. Farm labor
was shadow priced at Z4.3 per day, the wage of a road maintenance worker; in
many cotton areas this is a common second source of income for farmers. The
economic costs of cotton seeds were considered to be zero since (a) negligible
additional transport costs arise and (b) alternative uses for seeds are
extremely limited. With rehabilitation of the companies oil mills (para
4.08), incremental net benefits would arise from seed processing. These
benefits have not been taken into account. It is not expected that economic
costs will arise from foregone production of other agricultural commodities,
since farmers are currently not producing to their full potential.
7.03      Incremental economic benefits were derived from incremental cotton
lint production valued at the import parity price of comparable cotton lint
on the world market, since the objective of the Project is import substitution
of cotton fiber. Development of the import parity price over the economic



- 46 -
life of the Project was forecast on the basis of the Bank's commodity price
projections in constant 1981 US dollars. Under the above assumptions, the
analysis shows that the Project is economically viable and that Zaire has a
comparative advantage in producing cotton instead of importing it. Local
production costs are low since cotton is grown exclusively by smallholders
and without modern techniques and since the basic cotton infrastructure and
managerial experience exist. The domestic resource cost coefficient per US
dollar of foreign exchange saved was calculated at US$0.91 in Year 4 decreas-
ing to US$0.56 in Year 10. The economic rate of return is estimated at about
62% and the present value of net economic benefits is about US$63 million (at
12% opportunity cost of capital), amounting to about 48% of the present value
of economic costs. The high value of the economic return is due to the reha-
bilitation character of the Project. The incremental benefits are thus based
on relatively small new investments, basic existing infrastructure, con-
siderable experience of the cotton companies' staff in managing marketing and
ginning, and farmers' experience facilitating the return to earlier adopted
cultivation patterns. The economic rate of return analysis is presented in
Table 10.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.04      The effect of changes in relevant costs and benefits is shown in
the table below:
Net Present       Net Present Value
Economic        Value of        of Economic Benefits
Change                  Rate of    Economic Benefits    as % of Present
Return (%)    (US$ million)         Value of Costs
1.  Base Case                    62              63                   48
2. Increase by 20% in
operating costs,
including agricul-
tural inputs                 50              51                   36
3. Decrease by 30% in
benefits (cotton lint
production)                  16               5                    4
The figures above indicate that the Project would be economically viable under
widely varying assumptions. The indicators are very sensitive to changes in
economic benefits and costs which may result from the risks analyzed in para
7.05. The switching value of economic benefits is -33% and of economic costs,
46%. The differences in sensitivity between the financial and economic
analysis (para 6.07) are principally due to distortions in the exchange rate
between the Zaire and US dollar.
Risks
7.05      The major risks facing the Project result from the country's general
economic situation and administrative weaknesses. These risks are inappropri-
ate price policy and insufficient supply of foreign exchange for imported



- 47 -
items. Producer prices, although not an element of the economic analysis,
are a major factor in determining farmers responsiveness and therefore
incremental production. The risk of inadequate seed cotton prices to pro-
ducers has been partly removed by the recent definition of these prices as
minimum instead of fixed prices (para 2.10). In addition, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government would continue to conduct semi-
annual reviews of minimum producer prices for seed cotton and would consult
with IDA on appropriate price levels before June 1 and December 1 of each
year. Assurances were also obtained that the Government would allocate
sufficient foreign exchange for cotton subsector operations (para 3.13). The
Project is designed to reduce additional risks, such as breakdown of transport
and lack of financing. Despite these risks, this Project merits support
because the cotton subsector has the most promising prospects for short-term
rehabilitation in the agriculture sector. The general, countrywide risks
aside, the Project faces few technical, commercial, and managerial risks which
could affect its economic and financial viability. Technical risks regarding
utilization and maintenance of vehicles and equipment are low since the cotton
companies employ competent staff, most of whom have acquired a thorough
knowledge of the installations and the vehicle fleet. Commercial risks are
low since (i) cotton lint production is currently at only about 50% of the
local textile industry's installed capacity and (ii) Zaire's lint production
can be expected to remain economically viable and thus competitive in the
medium term. The risks of unsatisfactory management performance by the cotton
companies and CSCo are small, as they are headed by managers with considerable
experience in cotton operations in Zaire and since no substantial changes in
subsector management and organization are required in the short run. The risk
of management weaknesses in CSCo was substantially reduced by the appointment
of CSCo's Board of Directors in January 1982 (para 2.15). In addition,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would at all
times keep CSCo's positions of general manager and the three directors filled
with qualified and experienced staff (para 4.13). The agricultural risks are
low since cotton growing is well known by Zairian farmers and since reinforce-
ment of extension services is expected to motivate farmers to apply improved
cultivation methods. The risks of late arrival or insufficient deliveries of
insecticides would not have a substantial impact since only a small part of
the area is expected to be treated with insecticides (para 5.04).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations the following matters were discussed:
(a)  draft purchase/lease arrangement between Government and the
cotton companies on utilization of ginneries and buildings
owned by Governnent (para 2.16);
(b)  draft subsidiary loan agreements between Government and the
cotton companies (para 3.14); and



- 48 -
(c) draft agreement between CSCo and the cotton companies on
procurement of items to be financed out of the Credit
(para 3.16).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
points:
(a) that sufficient foreign exchange would be made available
over the Project implementation period to guarantee the
operations of the cotton companies (para 3.13);
(b) that CSCo would sign disbursement applications prepared
by each company for its allocation of Credit proceeds
(para 3.16);
(c) that during the Project implementation period the annual
financial statements of the three cotton companies and CSCo
would be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA (para 3.18);
(d) that Government would define mechanisms for cost-recovery
from cotton farmers for insecticides and submit a proposal
in this respect to IDA by July 31, 1983 for review
(para 4.07);
(e) that CSCo would submit semi-annual Project progress reports
to IDA (para 4.11);
(f) that the Government would at all times keep CSCo's general
manager's and the three directors' positions filled with
qualified and experienced staff (para 4.13);
(g) that the Government would prepare a Project Completion Report
and submit it to IDA not later than six months after the
Credit closing date (para 4.15);
(h) that working capital requirements of the three cotton
companies would be regularly reviewed by the shareholders
and that the amount of their working capital would at all
times be kept at or above a level corresponding to four
months of fixed operating costs (para 6.05); and
(i) that the Government would continue to conduct semi-annual
reviews of seed cotton producer prices and would consult
with IDA on appropriate price levels before June 1 and
December 1 of each year (para 7.05).
8.03      A condition of effectiveness would be the conclusion of subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and each of the three companies and IDA
approval of these agreements (para 3.14, 3.17); the subsidiary loan agreements
would include an annex specifying the procurement arrangements to be followed
by CSCo and the three cotton companies (para 3.16).



- 49 -
8.04      Subject to the above conditions, the Project is suitable for
an IDA Credit of SDR 9.8 million (US$11.3 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms.
May 2, 1982



-30-
Table/Tableau 1
2AIRE
SECOND COTTON RERABILITATION PROJECT                           DEUXIEME PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
Project Costs                                                          Coûts du projet
(US$'000)                                                           (Milliers de $EU)
F'relgs
Year 1/   Year 2/    Year 3/    Yeur 4/   Years 1-4/  Exehange/
Année 1   Année 2    Ann.e 3    Année 4   Anne'es 1-4   Devises
A.  Road amd Bridge Rehabilitation                                                                                      A.  Rénovatlos des routes et des ponts
Investments                                 1,625        -            -           -          1,625         91           Imvestissements
Iscremental Operating Costs                 4,355        -            -           -          4,355          6           Coûts de fonctionnement additionnels
SLb-total                        5X980        -            -           -          5I980         29                      Total partiel
B.  Extension Services                                                                                                  B.  Services d'encadrement
Investments                                   761        482          -           -          1,243         91           Investissements
Incremestal Operatimg Costs                   871        407          326          99        1,703          6           Coûts de fonctionnnement additionnels
SLb-total                        i1632        889          326          92        2,946         42                      Total partiel
C.  Incremestal Agrionitaral Ispots              1,101        205         154          158        2,318        70       C.  Istrasts agricoles additiosnels
D.  Cottan Marketing                                                                                                    D.  Commercialisatiom do coton
Ineestments (including spare                                                                                            Investissements (y compris pièces de
parts)                                      1,865      4,948        3,237       2,232       12,282         87           rechange)
Incremeotal Operating Costs                   -        1,706          952         785        3,443         24           Coûts de fonctionnement additionnels
Sub-total 11865                              654         4,181       3,917       15,725         73                      Total partiel
E.  Catton Ginning                                                                                                      E.  Egrenage du raton
Investments                                   770         770      1,823        1,073        4,436         91           Investissenents
Increme-tal Operatimg Coots                   -           763         742         680        2,185         12           Coûts de fonctionoemeot additionnels
Sub-total                          770      1Al533      =s56          2               21       65                       Total partiel
F.  Studies aod Audits                                                                                                  F.  Etrdes et verification des comptes
Studies                                      -           -            100         100           200        90           Etudes
Audits                                        -           400         400         400         1.200        90           Vérification des comptes
Slb-total                          -          400          500         500        _,40O        90                       Total partiel
Base total                      12,048      9$681        7,734       52527       342990         62                      Total de base
af which:  Investments                      5,021      6,200        5.060       3,305       19,586         87           dont:  Isvestissements
Incremental operating                                                                                               Cours de fonctionnement
costs               7,027      3,081       2,174       1,722        14,004        22                          additionnels
I.  Contingencies                       t1G  Imprévus
Physical 1/                                    221        266         202         110           799        86           Dépausesent des qua-tités 1/
Price 2/                                      -           823       1,284       1,398        3,505         62           Dépassement des pris 3/
Slb-total                          221                   11486         508 4Q304                66                      Total partiel
Total                           12L262      2SLZ2Q       9221        7,035       39,294         63                      Total
1/  5  of investment itens excluding spare parts.                                     1/  5% des invescissements sans pièces de rechange.
2/  The base corst  are empressed is October 1981 prices.                              2/  Les coûts de base sont esprimés aux pris d'octobre 1981;
inflation rates assumed were 8.5 for 1982 and 7.5                                      les tans d'inflation appliqués étaient de 8.5% pour 1982 et
yearly thereafter.                                                                     de 7.5% pa.  à la suite.
EAPCA                                                                                                                                      EAPCA
July 30, 1981                                                                                                                              Le 30 juillet 1981



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON  REEABILITATION PROJECT                                                                      DEUXIEME PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
Financing Plan                                                                                                 Plan de finiancement
(US$  0oo)                                                                                                    (milliers de $EU)
Total Foreign                                                                       Cotton       Local                                 Cotton
Costs/ Exchange/ Amount/  EDF/          CCCE    SOFIDE       IDA    Coveroment/  Companies/   Costa/  Amount/  Government/   Companies/
Coûts Devises   montant  FPD 1/                                   Gouvernement   Sociétés         Coûts  Montant  Gouvernment    Sociètés
A.  Investcents                    Totaux    %                                                                        Cotonnieres  Locaux                               Cotonnieres
Road and bridge               1,706     91         1,553  1,232         -         -         -           321            -           9        153          153             _                 Rénovation des routes
rehabilitation                                                                                                                                                                             et ponts
Extension services            1,348    91         1,227      640        -         -         -           587            -           9        121          121             -                 Services de vulgarisa-
2'                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tino
Cotton marketing             14,701    85        12,464  1,305   2,200 -/   1,100-/  6,794              -            1,065        18      2,237          -            2,237                Coomercialisation du
nOtton
Cotton ginning                5,329    91         4,849  1,537        -           -       3,160          _              152        9        480          -               480               Egrenage du coton
Sub-total                 23          7 084Q8=  20Q093  4!7l4   2,200        1,100    9X954         908           1/217       14       2,991         274           2,7l7                   Total partiel
B.  Incremental                                                                                                                                                                            B.  Couts de fonctionnement
Operating Costs                                                                                                                                                                            supplementaires
Road and bridge                                                                                                                                                                            Rénovation des routes
rehabilitation              4,712      6          282    282       -            -         -          -               -          94     4,430        4,430             -                     et ponts
Extension services            1,345      6            81    -         -           -         -            81             -         94      1,264       1,264              -                 Services de vulgarisa-
tien-
Agricultural inputs           2,508     70         1,756  1,756       -           -         -           -               -         30        752          -               752               Intrants agricoles
Cotton marketing              3,724    23            857    -         -           -         -           _              857        77      2,867          -            2,867                Commercialisation du
Cotton ginning                2,361     12           283    -         -           _         _           -               283       88      2,078          -             2,078               Egrenage du cotron
Sub-total                 14,650    22         3,259  2,038                              -           81           11140        78    11l391        1,694           5X697                   Total partiel
C.  Studies and Audits             1,560    90         1,400    -         -            -       1,400        -               -         10         160          60             100           C.  Etudes et verification
-  -                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~des comptes
Total                     39,294    62        24,752  6h752  2200           1,100   11354          989         2?357         38    14,542        6,028           8,514                   Total
1/  Based on allocations to different categories as included 1n financing proposa1                            1/  Basé sur des allocations aux differentes catégories, comme presente' dans la proposition
of European Commission of July 1980; exchange rate applied UA 1 = US$1.28.                                     de financement de la Commission des Communautes Europe'ennes datée de juillet 1980; le
le taux de change appliqué est de 1 UC - 1.28 $EU.
2/ Countervalue of 50 six-to seven-ton trucks.
2/  Contrevaleur de 50 camions de 6-7 tonnes.
3/  Countervalue of 25 6-7 ton trucka.                                                                        3/  Contrevaleur de 25 camions de 6-7 tonnes charge utile.
4/  Studies and CSCo audit.                                                                                   4/  Etudes et vérification des comptes de CSCo.
July 30, 1981                                                                                                                                                                              Le 30 juillet 1981



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT/
DEUXIEME PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
Shares of Financing Sources                         Participation des Sources de Financement
in Cost Components                                    dans les Composantes de couts
(%)                                                         (%)
Incremental
Total Project Costs/         Investments/            OperatingForeign Exchange/    Local Cots/
Couts de             FrinEcagl              LclCsa
Coûts totaux du projet       Investissements    Fonctionnement Additionnels          Dévises            Coûts Locaux
IDA                        29                       43                        -1d
EDF/FED                     17                      20                        14                         27
CCCE                         6                      10                        -                            9
SOFIDE                      3                        5                                                    4 4
Government/
Gouvernement               18                        5                        39                          4                    42
Cotton Companies/
Sociétés Cotonnières       27                       17                        47                         10                    58
TOTAL                     100                      100                      100                         100                   100
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Cr~
H~
o.



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PRCUECT               DEUXIEME PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
Summary of IDA Financing                                    Resume du Financement IDA
(US$'000)                                             (en milliers de $EU)
Year 2/     Year 3/      Year 4/                  Total (including contingencies)
Annee 2     Annee 3      Annee 4        -Total   Total (y inclus imprevus)
1.  Equipment for Ginneries -                                                                                              1.  Equipement pour usines
and Workshops                          --          1,657          975          2,632               3,160                   d'egrenage et ateliers
2.  Vehicles                                1,891        1,412           --          3,303               3,965             2.  Vehicules
3.  Vehicle Spare Parts -                   1,483          874           __          2,357               2,829             3.  Pieces de rechange pour
vehicules
4.  Stud`les and Audits                       .5           420          420          1,194               1,400            4.  Etudes et verification
des comptes
Sub-total                           3,728        4,363        1,395          9,486                --                        S4us-total
Physical Contingencies (5%)               169          197           49            415                __                   Imprevus physiques (5%)   w
Price Contingencies                       331          757          365          1,452                -- Prix
Total                               4,228        5,317        1,809         11,354              11,354                      Total
1/ In accordance with investment needs detailed in Tables 9, 10,
and 12 of Annex 5/correspondant aux besoins d'investissement
resumes dans les tableaux 9, 10, et 12 de l'Annexe 5.                                                                                            <s
2/ In accordance with investment needs detailed in Tables 3, 4, 6,
and 12 of Annex 6/correspondant aux besoins d'investissement resume
dans les tableaux 3, 4, 6, et 12 de l'Annexe 6.
3/ In accordance with spare part needs evaluated in Annex 6/
correspondant aux besoins en pieces de rechange evalues dans
l'Annexe 6.
May 19, 1981                                                                                                    le 19 mai 1981



-54-                             Table/Tableau 5
ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Calendrier de décaissements prévisionnel
Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter
IDA Fiscal Year                         (US$'000)                   Exercice et trimestre
and Quarter                   Décaissements cumulatifs                     IDA
à la fin du trimestre
(en milliers de $EU)
1982/83                                                             1982/83
September 30, 1982 -                                                30 septembre 1982 -
December 31, 1982                       500                         31 décembre 1982
March 31, 1983                        1,000                         31 mars 1983
June 30, 1983                         2,000                         30 juin 1983
1983/84                                                             1983/84
September 30, 1983                    3,500                         30 septembre 1983
December 31, 1983                     4,500                         31 décembre 1983
March 31, 1984                        5,500                         31 mars 1984 2/
June 30, 1984  2/                     7,000                         30 juin 1984 -
1984/85                                                             1984/85
September 30, 1984                    7,500                         30 septembre 19843/
Decembre 31, 1984 3/                  8,000                         31 décembre 1984 -
March 31, 1985                        8,500                         31 mars 1985
June 30, 1985                         9,000                         30 juin 1985
1985/86                                                             1985/86
September 30, 1985                    9,500                         30 septembre 1985
December 31, 1985 2/                 10,000                         31 décembre 1985  2/
March 31, 1986                       10,500                         31 mars 1986
June 30, 1986 3/                     11,300                         30 juin 1986  3/
1/  Expected date of effectiveness,               1/  Date prévue pour entrée en vigueur,
September 30, 1982                                30 septembre 1982.
2/  Expected date of completion,                  2/  Date prévue pour achèvement du
December 31, 1985                                 Projet, 31 décembre 1985.
3/  Expected closing date,                        3/  Date de cloture envisagée,
June 30, 1986.                                    30 juin 1986.
April 15, 1982                                                        le 15 avril 1982



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REUABILITATION PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
Projected Income Statements-/Comptes d'Exploitation Previsionnels-/
Southern Cotton Companies/Sociétés Cotonnieres du Sud
(US$ million/millions de $ EU)
Year 1/             Year 2/              Year 3/              Year 4/
Annee 1             Annee 2              Annee 3              Annee 4
Production of Seed Cotton(tons)                  16,800               23,500               29,500               31,300                         Production coton-graine (tonnes)
Sales of Cotton Lint (tons)                       5,328                7,382                8,460               10,620                        Ventes coton fibre (tonnes)
operating Revenues                                                                                                                             Revenus de fonctionnement
Sales of Cotton Lint 2/                          22.2                 30.8                 38.5                 44.3                          Ventes coton fibre
OperatingR Costs                                                                                                                               Frais de fonctionnement
Seed Cotton Used                                  6.7                 10.0                 13.9                 16.4                          Cioton-graine utilIse
Other Variable Costs _                            4.6                  6.2                  7.9                  8.5                           Frais variables 3/
Fixed Costs 3/                                    9.0                  9.6                 10.1                 10.7                           Frais fixes  3/
Interest on Uhort Term Debt                       1.4                  2.0                  2.5                  2. 7                          Interêt sur dettes a court terme
Total Operating Costs                            21.7                 27.8                 34.4                 38.3                           Total frais de fonctionnement
Interest on Medium Tera Debt                        0.2                  0.3                  0.6                  1.0                        Intérêt sur dettes à moyen terme
Pre-Tax Income                                    0.3                  2.5                  3.5                  5.0                           Bénéfice avant impôts
Taxes on Income                                   0.1                  1.3                  1.7                  2.5                           Impôts sur bénéfice
Net Income after Taxes                              0.2                  1.2                  1.8                  2.5                        Bénéfice net apres impots
Appropriation of Net Income                                                                                                                    Distribution bénéfice net
Dividends                                          -                   0.6                  0.6                  0.6                           Dendes
Retained Earnings                                 0.2                  0.6                  1.2                  1.9                           Reporté
Pre-Tax tncome as                                                                                                                              Pourcentage beénefice avant imp6ts/revenus
Preta Income ae 
Net Income as 7                                                                                                                                Pourcentage bénéfice net/revenus de
of Revenues                                       1                   4                    4                    6                              fonctionnement
Net income after tax as % of paid-in                                                                                                           Pourcentage bénéfice net après imp6ts/
capital                                         7                  40                   60                   83                              capital
1/  In constant terms.                                                                                                              1/  Aux prix constants.
2/  Sales of lint from seed cotton                                                                                                 Pj  Vente des fibres provenant du coton-graine
harvested during prevlous year.                 0.5                 1.0                   1.5                  2.0                  de l'annee precedente.
3/ Depreciation included.                                                                                                          3/  Y compris amortissement.
August 5, 1981                                                                                                                                                                Le 5 août 1981



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REdABILITATION PROJECT
DEUXi EME PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
Projected Cash Flow -/Cash Flow Previsionnel-/
Souithern Cotton Companies/Societes Cotonnieres du Sud
(US$ million/mi1lions de $ EU)
Year 1/                  Year 2/                  Year 3/                  Year 4/
Annee I                  Aunee 2                  Annee 3                  Annee 4
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                                SOURCES DES FONDS
Internal Sources                                                                                                                                                Sources Internes
Net Income after Taxes                                0.2                       1,2                      1.8                      2.5                           Beuefice net apres ispots
Depreciation                                          0.5                       1.0                      1.5                      2.0                           Amortissemeut
lnterest on Medium Term Debt                          0.2                      0.3                       0.6                     1.0                            Interet sur dette a moyen terme
0.9                      2.5                       3.9                     5.5
Borrowings                                                                                                                                                      Prets
Proposed IDA Credit                                    -                        2.0                      2.0                      2.0                           Pret IDA propose
SOFIDE Credit                                         l.1                       -                         -Pret SOFIDE
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                    2.0                      4.5                      5.9                      7.5                         TOTAL SOURCES DES FONDS                                $
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                            UTILISATION DES FONDS
Captial Expenditures                                                                                                                                             Depenses en capital
Project Investments                                   1.1                       2.0                      2.0                      2.0                           Investissements
Required Increase in Working Capital                  0.7                       1.3                      1.5                      2.1                           Augmentation fonds de roulement
Total Capital Expenditures                            1.8                       3.3                      3.5                      4.1                           Total depenses en capital
Debt Service                                                                                                                                                      Dettes
Interest in Medium Term Debt                          0.2                      0.3                       0.6                      1.0                           Interet sur dette a moyen terme
Repayment of Medium Term Debt                          -                       0.3                       1.2                      1.8                           Repaiement dette a moyen terme
Total Debt Service                                    0.2                      0.6                       1.8                      2.8                           Total
Dividends                                             _                        0.6                       0.6                     0.6                            Dividendes                                       -
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                              2.0                       4.5                      5.9                      7.5                        TOTAL UTILISATION DES FONDS                        o.
Debt Service Coverage                                 4.5                       4.2                      2.2                      2.0                           Sources internes/interet + repaiement    a
E of Capital Expenditures                            50                       76                       111                     134                              Sources internes/depenses en capital
Financed by Internal Sources
1/  In constant terms.                                                                                                                                          1/  En prix constants.
August 5, 1981                                                                                                                                                                          Le 5 aout 1981



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REhABILITATION PROJECT
DEUXIENE PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
1/                       1/
Projected Balance Sheets  /Bilans Previsionnels
Southern Cotton Companios/Soci tes Cotonnières du Sud
(US$ :nillion/millions de $ EU)
Year 1/                   Year 2/                   Year 3/                   Year 4/
ASSETS                                       Annee 1                   Année 2                    Année 3                   Anné'e 4                  ACTIF
Current Assets                                                                                                                                        Valeurs à court terme
Cash                                        0.8                       0.9                       1.0                        1.1                        Disponible
Accounts Receivable                        24.9                      27.0                       33.9                      35.9                         Réalisable
Inventory                                   3.2                       4.6                       5.8                        6.3                         Stocks
Total Current Assets                                                32.5                      40.7                       43.3                          Total valeurs à court terme
Fixed Assets                                                                                                                                          Valeurs immobilisées
Equipment in Service                        2.1                       4.1                       6.1                        8.1                         Equipement en service
Accummulated Depreciation                   0.5                       1.5                        3.0                       5.0                         Amortissements cumulés
Net Fixed Assets                           1.6                       2.6                       3.1                        3.1                          Valeurs immobilisés nets
TOTAL ASSETS                               30.5                      35.1                      43.8                       46.4                         TOTAL ACTIF
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                                                                                                                 PASSIF
Short Term Debt                              26.2                      29.5                       34.6                      33.0                      Dette a court terme
Medium Term Debt                              1.1                                                  4,2                                                 Dette à moyen terme
Fonds propres
Paid-in Capital                              3.0                        3.0                       3.0                       3.0                        Capital
Retained Earnings                            0.2                       0.8                        2.0                       3.9                        Résultats reportés
Total Equity                                3.2                       3.8                        5.0                       6.9                         Total fonds propres                                          a
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                  30.5                       35.1                      43.8                      46.4                      TOTAL PASSIF
Quick Ratio                                  98                        95                        101                       112                         Ratio disponible + rgalisable/dette à court terme
Current Ratio                               110                       110                        118                       131                         Ratio de liquidite
Debt Equity Ratio                            26:74                     32:68                      46:54                     49:51                      Ratio dette/fonds propres
1/  In constant terms at estimated peak of                                                                                                            1/  En prix constants au point maximum de besoins en
indebtedness (November).                                                                                                                              financement (Novembre).
August 5, 1981                                                                                                                                                                   Le 5 aout 1981



CADRE
SECOND CTTOER REEABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                 DEUXIEME PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
Covornmont Proilet-Related Cash Flow                                                                                                                                              Cash flow du  touvnrnent
(DIS million)                                                                                                            (Sm millions ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~de $EE)
Year       1       2        3      4       5       6        7         8       9        10      il      12-21  22-32    33-50    Année
2/                                                                                                                                                                                 2
Sonres of FPods                                                                                                                                                                             Recettes
SOFIDE  (IDA, C-. 710-ZR)                                 1.1       -       -       -       -       -        -                 -                                                            Crédit do la SOFIDE (C-edit IDA 710-ZR)
IDA, Credit for proloosd Pronojt                           -       4.2   5,3       1.8      -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -               Crédit IDA pour 1n projet prapose
EDF                                                       4.9       2.0    -        -       -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -              FED
Textile Indu-try (Economic Recovery F-mdo)                7.0       6.2   6.5      6.6      -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -                  -              Idutie  teutile (Foodn de rnleu.e éonooiqse)
Cotton Companios                                                                                                                                                                            îordts rotonde
Purohaso of items financed sudor EDF                   2.8      2.0    -         -       -       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -                  Achatu dn biens fi.a.oo'u par le FED
Rn..ymnet of f-nds onlent sndnr IDA Credit             _        0.1    2.9      2.9   2.8       2.5       -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -                  Imterstet reebnursen,nt des peAts pr-v.namt de fonds de l'IDA
Total . oorcen                            15,8    14.5  14.7    11.3   2.8         2.5       -        -        -        -         -        -        -        -                              Totsl recettes
U..s of Funds                                                                                                                                                                              Utilit ation des fonds
Extension sorvices aod roadsv                                                                                                                                                                           de o1g.ti..ti.. et route
Inv-...ents nnder EDF                                   2,1       -       -       -                                                              ~                                              ~         ~    ~  ~ -  -  -  -  -  nvnstissements fimam-js par le FED
operatisus sud  ou.uterpant funds for                                                                                                                                                        Fotio..esut et fonds de onmtep-te po-
investments                                         7.0       6.2   6.5      6.6
Cotton companies                                                                                                                                                                            Sourletéu cotoneières
IDA  -reditu for invn-tme-ts                            1.1      3.8   4.8       1.3     -       -         -        -        _        -        -        -        -        -                  C-edits proveenat de l'IDA
EDF fCuds for  - ae parts oud agricultural                                                                                                                                                  PFods provenan t du FED
itpotu                                             2.8       2.              -
stDdien  and Audits                                        -        0.4   0,5      0.5                                                                                                      Etudes
IDA  _orvicn oharge  -nd repayment                                -       0.1      0.1   0.1       0.1    0.1        0.1      0.1      0.1    0.1        0.2     0,5        0.4             Comnissionet remboursomeet des  -nédits IDA
Totsl Uses                               13.0      12.5  11.9      8.5   0.1       0.1    0.1        0.1       0.1     0.1     0.1        0.2     0.5       0,4                            Total utilisation
Annuel Sorl-ls/(Dnfioit)                   2.8      2.0   2.8      2.8   2.7       2.4   (0.1)       (0,1)    (0.1)    (0.1)   (0.1)     (0.2)   (0.5)     (o,4)                          EInodent a.o.el (os défioit) de tresererie
1/  In 1981 constant prices.                                                                                                   1/  Pcix an s taux  c tant do 1981.
2/  Withost CCCE foods shich are lent directly ta SOFIDE.                                                                      2/  Sans compter 1u  fonds de CCCE qui sont preteu dirnotoment   la SOFIDE
May 14, 1981                                                                                                                                                                                                                 te 14 mi 1981



-59-
ZAIRE                                                                            Table/Tableau 10
SECOND COTTON RENABILITATION PROJECT/
DEUXIEIE PROJET DE RELANCE DE LA CULTURE COTONNIERE
ECONONIC ANALYSIS/ANALYSE ECONONIGUE
Year/Annee                1            2            3             4            S             6             7            8             9         10-20
(US$'000/en milliers de $EU)
F4AR  LABOR-MAIN DODEUVRE            320         5107         7539          8504         8504          8504         8504          8504          8504         8504
AGR. INPUTS-INTRANTS AGR            1531         1705         1836          1970          1970         1970          1970         1970          1970         1970
MARKETING INV.-INV.COMME            1209         3880         2124          1075          1365         1365          1365         1365          1365         1365
MARKETING OPER.-FONCT.CD               O         1823         2865          3907         3907          3907         3907          3907         3907          3907
GINNINS INVEST.-INVEST.              633          633          1693          938           144          144           144          144           144          144
GINNINS OPER.-FONCT.E6RE               O          613          1196         1745          1745         1745          1745         1745          1745         1745
ROADS INVEST.-INVEST. RD             819            0             0            0           204          204           204          204           204          204
ROADS OPER.-FONCT.ROUTES            1154         1154          1154         1154          1154         1154          1154         1154          1154         1154
INV.EXT.SER.-INV.SER.VUL            384           243             0            0           166          166           166          166           166          166
OPER.EXT,SER.-FONCT.SER.            231           338          425           452           452          452           452          452           452          452
TOTAL COSTS-COUTS TOTAUX           6280         15495        18832         19744        19611         19611         19611        19611        19611         19611
TOTAL BENEFITS-BENEFICES               O        11730        22022         28956         33250        33500         33750        34000         34125         34250
NET BENEFITS-BENEFICES N           -6280        -3765          3190         9212         13639        13889         14139        14389         14514         14439
THE ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN IS  62,3
May 29, 1981                                                                                                                                     Le 29 mai 1981



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization of the Cotton Subsector
Department of                                    National Institute of
Agriculture and        -  -  -  -  -  - _        _ Agronomic Research
Rural DeveloPment                                      and Studies
Caisse de                 Bambesa                   Boketa                   Gandajika
stabilisation              Research                  Research                  Research
cotonniere                 Station                   Station                   Station
j AGRIC OT                      LA<|  
ZAIRE     COTONIERE                ~~~~~~ESTAGRICOI             SCTEXCO-                   MBAYO                    DATSCO                    TSHI LOBO
Kabinda                  Tanganika                 Bas Uele
Directorate               Directorate               Directorate
-  -  -  Indirect Link to Cotton Subsector
DManiema                 South Kivra                Haut Uele                                              Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project
Directorate              Directorate               Directorate                                       **   First Cotton Rehabilitation Project
Sankuru
Directorate
World Bank - 22934



ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
YEAR        ____                                                                                                                    1985                   1986
i    2 1    3T4 |                  3    4                                                         2      3    4 I         2    3    4      i    2    3    4
i. IDA Credit
Appraisal*
Negotiations
Board Preserntation*
Effectiveness 
Completion
Closjng
Vehicles and Vehicle Spare Parts
Preparation of Bidding Documents
International Tender
Delivery
Ginneries and Workshops
Preparation of Bidding Documents
International Tender
Delivery
2. EDF Grant
Preparation of Orders and Bidding Documents
International Tender
Delivery
3. CCCE Credit
|  rder of Vehicles
Delivery
4. SOFIDE Credit
Order of Vehicles
Delivery
World Bank - 22932



- 62 -
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES
1.  Project Cost Tables
Table  1  Total Costs of Project Related Activities
Table  2  Investment Cost:  Road Rehabilitation
Table  3  Operating Cost:   Road Rehabilitation
Table  4  Investment Cost:  Extension Services
Table  5  Operating Cost:   Extension Services
Table  6  Cost of Agricultural Inputs
Table  7  Investment Cost:  Cotton Marketing
Table  8  Operating Cost:   Cotton Marketing
Table  9  Investment Cost:  Ginneries
Table 10  Operating Costs:  Ginneries
Table 11  Financing of Project Related Activities
2.   Development of Cotton Production in Zaire
Table 1   Development of Seed Cotton Production 1921-1955
Table 2   Development of Seed Cotton Production 1956-1980
Table 3   Development of Seed Cotton Prices 1967-1980
Table 4   Development of Fiber Prices
Table 5   Development of Cotton Fiber Sales and Consumption
3.   Technical Aspects of Cotton Production, Production Forecasts,
and Farm Models
Table  1  Rainfall Data of Cotton Areas
Table  2  Average Monthly Temperatures
Table  3  Estimated Development of Seed Cotton Production
Table  4  Farm Model: Haut-Zaire
Table  5  Farm Model: Kasai Oriental and Tanganika
Table  6  Farm Model: Maniema
Table  7  Farm Model: South Kivu (Uvira)
Table  8  Estimated Development of Food Crop Production
Table  9  Estimated Labor Requirements
Table 10  Costs of Agricultural Inputs
4.   Extension Services, Agricultural Research, and Seed Multiplication
Table 1   Investment Cost:  Extension Services
Table 2   Operating Cost:  Extension Services
Table 3   Operating Cost:  La COTONNIERE Extension Services
Table 4   Operating Cost:  SOTEXCO Extension Services
Table 5   Operating Cost:  ESTAGRICO Extension Services
Table 6   Extension Services: Prices and Salaries



- 63 -
5.   Cotton Processing and Ginnery Investments
Table  1   Ginneries of SOTEXCO
Table  2   Ginneries of ESTAGRICO
Table  3   Ginneries of La COTONNIERE
Table  4   Technical Specifications of SOTEXCO Ginneries
Table  5   Technical Specifications of ESTAGRICO Ginneries
Table  6   Technical Specifications of La COTONNIERE Ginneries
Table  7   Capacity of Gins
Table  8   Installed Capacity of Cotton Companies
Table  9   Investment Requirements of Ginneries
Table 10   Investment Requirements of Workshops
Table 11   Base Cost for Operation of Ginneries
Table 12   Investment Cost: Ginneries
Table 13   Operating Cost: Ginneries
Table 14   Agro-Industrial Activities of Cotton Companies
6.   Cotton Marketing, Investments in Transport Fleet, and Road
and Bridge Rehabilitation
Table  1   Existing Vehicle Fleet of Cotton Companies
Table  2  Average Distances of Cotton Evacuation
Table  3   Investment in Vehicles and Spare Parts
Table  4   Development of Vehicle Fleet
Table  5   Base Cost for Cotton Marketing
Table  6   Investment Cost: Cotton Marketing
Table  7   Operating Cost: Cotton Marketing
Table  8   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program:  La COTONNIERE
Table  9   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program:  SOTEXCO
Table 10   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program:  ESTAGRICO
Table 11   Investment Cost for Vehicles
Table 12   Operating Cost of Vehicles
Table 13   Road Rehabilitation: Prices and Salaries
Table 14   Investment Cost: Road Rehabilitation
Table 15   Operating Cost: Road Rehabilitation
7.   Organization, Management, and Finances of LA COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO,
ESTAGRICO, and CSCo
Table  1   La COTONNIERE: Profit and Loss Statement 1979
Table  2   La COTONNIERE: Balance Sheet 1979
Table  3   La COTONNIERE: Budget for Campaign 1980/81
Table  4   SOTEXCO: Profit and Loss Statement 1979
Table  5   SOTEXCO: Balance Sheet 1979
Table  6   SOTEXCO: Budget for Campaign 1980/81
Table  7   ESTAGRICO: Balance Sheet 1979
Table  8   ESTAGRICO: Budget for Campaign 1980/81
Table  9   CSCo: Profit and Loss Statements 1979/1980
Table 10   CSCo: Balance Sheets 1979/1980
Table Il   CSCo: Budgets 1980/1981
Table 12   Ownership of Mixed-Capital Companies



- 64 -
Chart 1   Organization of LA COTONNIERE
Chart 2   Extension Services of LA COTONNIERE
Chart 3   Organization of SOTEXCO
Chart 4   Organization of ESTAGRICO
Chart 5   Organization of CSCo
8.   Economic Analysis
Table 1   Assumptions for Economie Analysis
9.   Procurement and disbursement under Financing Sources other than IDA



- 65 -
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Preparation Documents
1.1  First Evaluation of Subsector Needs
1.2  Programme minimum 1980 de la relance de la culture du coton,
February 1980
1.3  Programme 1980 de relance de la culture cotonniere, April 1980
1.4  Contribution de la Caisse de Stabilisation Cotonniere
au Plan Mobutu, September 1980
1.5  La relance cotonniere en Republique du Zaire, November 1980
2.   CSCo
2.1  Statutes of August 1978 and December 1979 and General Law 78-023
of August 9, 1978 on Cotton production
2.2  Organization, personnel and salaries
2.3  Draft and final decree on nomination of CSCo Board
2.4  Annual Reports 1979 and 1980
2.5  1980 and 1981 budgets
2.6  Fiber prices
2.7  Distribution of cotton fiber 1980/81
2.8  Rapport des missions dans le Haut-Zaire et Lualaba, November 1980
and March 1981
2.9  Situation generale hebdomadaire, November 27, 1979; March 24, 1981;
and September 15, 1981
2.10 Prix du coton graine, April 4, 1981
2.11 Proposals on intensification study.
2.12 Draft subsidiary loan agreement for IDA Credit, draft agreement on
procurement, and draft purchase agreement for ginneries.
2.13 Programme 1982 et budget y afferent.
3.   La COTONNIERE
3.1 Document on company transmitted during subsector mission in March
1980 including pro-forma invoices for vehicles and equipment.
3.2 Document submitted to appraisal mission.



- 66 -
3.3  Report of Board of Directors on financial year 1979,
including balance sheet June 30, 1980, budget 1980 and
general information
3.4  Annual report 1980
3.5  Signed statutes of the company, inventory of Colocoton assets,
protocole d'accord, and signed decree on creation
3.6  Information on transport fleet, transport costs and taxes.
3.7  SOFIDE financing proposal, September 1979 and October 1980
3.8  Revised investment program, July/August 1981
3.9  Financing proposal for rehabilitation of rural nurseries
3.10 Draft subsidiary loan agreement for IDA credit
4.   SOTEXCO and SOTEXKI
4.1 SOTEXKI financial statements 1978 and 1979.
4.2  SOTEXCO financial statements 1979 and 1980 and budgets for 1980 and 1981.
4.3  Protocoles d'accord, statutes and decree of creation of SOTEXCO
4.4  Agreements, CCCE/SOFIDE and SOFIDE/SOTEXKI on financing of vehicles
4.5  List of equipment and materials to be acquired for workshops
and results of 1978-1980 campaigns.
4.6  Revised,investment program, August 1981
4.7  Data on different cotton campaigns
4.8  Draft subsidiary loan agreement for IDA credit
4.9  Terms of reference for SOTEXCO mechanization study
5.   ESTAGRICO (COTONEST)
5.1  Besoins requisitions Tanganika
5.2  Besoins requisitions Sud-Kivu
5.3  Programme entretien routier Tanganika
5.4  Programme entretien routier Sud-Kivu
5.5  Revised investment program, September 1981 and January 1982
5.6  Maps of ginneries and roads
5.7  Financial statements 1979 and 1980 and budgets 1980/1981
5.8  Results of campaigns 1979 and 1980
5.9  Credit application to CCCE, April 1981
5.10 Protocole d'accord, statutes, and decree of creation
5.11 Draft subsidiary loan agreement for IDA credit



- 67 -
6.   EDF Financing
6.1 EDF financing agreement, October 1980
6.2 Tender document for items to be ordered under EDF grant.
7.   Fonds de relance agricole
Various correspondence on application of Fonds de relance in the
subsector and contracts on extension services and road maintenance
with La COTONNIERE, ESTAGRICO, and SOTEXCO
8.   The Subsector before 1971
Budgets 1967-1970 and details of production 1962-1968.
9.   Other
9.1 OGEDEP, annual report 1979
9.2 Retrocession law, 78-003, January 1978
9.3 Decrees on imposition of cultivation, June 1976
9.4 SNCZ transport tariffs
9.5 List of agricultural schools
9.6 SOLBENA - folder on M. Feuillas, candidate for manager of fourth
mixed-capital cotton company.
9.7 Technical documents of Chanic
9.8 Various'information on vehicles of Magirus and Renault/Saviem,
and on engines of KHD






NI _                       r                                 *,                                                                                  .  . F , . . /hf' r 7 4: 2 --  _  2R ?  '5029
LE79b> , ~;~ ~~'~  h 'hC t] ' ,pr >\ I    |    -  *      -CENT AL-AERIC AN! RCrLPUr_.htl
h A4I(4ou, h                    's7;N.                                         <.LI                                      "      /.'N.
Q                                       i    N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AL Î       
i Z "(vM ,    MONGALA A                    t
Y>"" L    -    o.I.-t                 ATZIE               1;1__,omlHAUT  ZA R,
EQUATEUR `    -                                               c>           T-UN
J                                ;10 ,',tEQUATEUR                                      À 7  \-'-rNîA
GABON           j                                                N r                                                                NORD-
TSHUAPA          \'                                          KIVU      J- d--I
' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1                                                 LIE>                                                               k     i -            _/SKV 
MAI-NDOMBE                   N
r! h` .r.t ;.~. /3    .......                                           ....          . .          .       ..                 ,,___             . SANKURU    / f  '  e- 27 F S U D  ,j"39 - ;'U R
r   .                           d    --  ,  I- 
h tt~~~~~~-Qoe    ~~~~~IQî~~~~~24SA                          -~~~~~~   A             t 
r'                    hi       U>  , , A.-  ,    WILU         ""'J -:    "'      e>v                                ':-T    : ><K `'-
ZÂIRE'T `  \<-  -JtvL _1a R HASLé.                                                -    LOMAMI    Cu ,  -  j K r         Vj
t  3%B'         |AlARACI                                                     I UL                     -        HBRNDUN   '  '  t  fA  g   ,14vAA 
j           R        O2                                             o'                              H    -\KWANGO  '   l
_l~5           h    1»        r/V"/'             \          t FO>?U?jI:Rs;                                    TANGANYKA  i          N
______3V_d__d                                    ANEL                   So6 '4 >  N<                        )      ii
t   L\E lCISW                                       ;           CE   t       rIUALABAMLSHABA       97
-  U- Ai O  A  A            k     , A B A
RE-SUBLIC CIF (AIRE                                    tAUTe>                          HAUT-
AREAS 0F INTERVENTION 0F TF                                                                                                            I
h                 ~~~~FOUJR MAA1CR COTTON  COMPANIES
't    A>~~~~  y-'~~~   -  5V1     V
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
! PANS  \/'I               "5        
h` -0 -                                          !>ro  ;or n                    AM-                             '   ''- -A-






t 24 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ 218- ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 15030R
-t'\\>7<p\iX  duS/W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R E;;   Bk
R - - ~~~~~~~~~ J ~~~S A AI a   I? °ung  /D    ktftt ..........   opertft,
L-d t   , M    A:   IO    M   A      ``X!Rua  ..-.......
X X 0   <   :g=  nt 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
T \;4k:po g P, T O, M t *5/ ; / n u tr oM:lob: / gX  MAI
1  4%< < ' 45 5 v / CX tLu q"5>eSM O-0 
,,qs,,%`02+'\V_4:d$fA'aS~~~ =),b -gn::






IBRD 15031R
-se-                     '6 'e 4e-  4T4  -4vFEBR tARY 1981
E N T 'R"   L  A  F ~~~R 1 C                      ùrU  B LI C                                                                                                                              Z  An, I R' E
r  E  E                rtit';  D  DE      F f   f                                               S'; D0       u < )S           t \        D;  ;        SOTiEXCO;                     
'; X ;' s@,V ffi =S1; tfl <uQK-k;FÉt ;4 0 5 5(( ji ' i \ i ; ARjEAS 0EOF  TTON PRODUCTION AND
| ' 4'À lAdamora 0                                    -# -<>{  0 0 S {S; f FIJ S H B,DL U A ) ) N q 5 \ 4           D                     N                        LOCATIONS CF GINN,ERIES
Lbe                  ,    SDin8bal                                                                                                                               Ç z    ,1;,;-   t   S  5,<    ;  ( 0    e"    çiinnnriess functiosirng   b  
>eve                8,!,                    B     A!    Ç    C        X   t  i Z A                                                                                 THE GARAMB                                               Ginneries,n  tc;;n0
-ciA Cbed                                                     2                                                   NATIONAL ''<4                                           Ginneries, not operatio(nç
<v                               iii         9 Ange                            t                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARK                         SOTEXCO orna boundory
; = ç -   Revend>                                                                            ^ , r +,  5 / ; lX 5 s v . . . ,v- ., C;" g ;; "  *aa~p F ds Gf qenera/! impDori rtcn
t   <   J  M  engoS   r    u;$3  <   gArn d . i   6  \ e   9   D,<5[   5<,  S   /  >   f  Eurud<                     Ropds   of  loca     importance
M C   < < `   y   *   4 9 a 8 t Do  T i t u l e t   M : k ,                  F    X    ;     T   _    S     g   ^  i   f          \        0  /    :  t  -OZ L A T v - M M e jo r   riv e rs
k.t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
i_  Z   T  , <                      i   Z  b;        »         t              )    t  \     i   b                             d            /             Atu         -   9  -    InferNcitrqtgi   WuNorXriert~~~-e-  I
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.vrts                                                              v =r                 0Tnl ,                                                                                  ---. Re'ao bou nddr ies  k  ;  s       ;;  ;  ;
Z~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~aee   TIAI                                                  Mokng'                                                    Bn                     e4                                             - -     Sv1n<vÀa bourok   iviaries>"  !$UGtfbA2 
__                        Ekulo                                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~'~~GANDA
v               Bokumo r---               ---Pv- _B                            -- r                    O        w0
'k' ==\, 5<>  =  H    A    U    T    -  mAZ  R      E    R-i5>>             R`                           v i G    I =:O   iN              Diu9uo  4 jLX,5,Jf j                   {::t:   ::  :,
AR/Bp~~ ~   ~                 B:kere j.    /-vvV-J                                     , =  -                   I     -  Ibomb                 I\'   e-                           gip  e-                       M lE oh  }ogV TR      Y:4 d  LL\lq  ?Sii
- v-~~~~~~~~~~ C  t  t     et      titi.- é~l~pW.                                         m p~ P1 Widi"  ,
Dloau t ; i                                                                           gngo  n  . i    ' )gn                            LB STj
X  k                   \      >  S                           ,   .                            A v!                             enl  ,.(f\)  \               |),Xfc Alç$(:lO ruti     R   8   E   P   L  t   \k y - y   ~  v  «
d5s.Urn99   :   a   ,                                                                  zr p\,                                                                        <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bwn
nie-Rukula~                                                                          ~          ~         ~ [GAN  SC5                                                 OMOMRER
T H E T 1 M A 1 K 0                                                                  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20  RI   Ç   OS   1014 
0                                                                                                                                                    UGANDA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Mobsoror   2As                      s      80
------  2                                                                                           Z~~~~~~~~~~~~  leltmfvnn vnver vevnAvAe<nv pnvavv,ueetoeEdv



