Document of             FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3340-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 25, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the puferface of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World bank authoriatiou.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         _              Zaire (Z)               100 Makuta (K)
9 1.00                               SDR 0.15
US$1.00               _                5.5
g 1.00                               US$0.18
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)            0.6215 miles
1 square kilometer          0.39 square miles
(sq. km)
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE               Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
La COTONNIERE      Societe Cotonniere et Agricole du Kasai et Maniema (Kasai Cotton Company)
COTON-ZAIRE       La Cotonniere du Zaire (Zaire Cotton Company)
CSCo              Caisse de Stabilisation Cotonniere (Cotton Stabilization Board)
EDF                European Development Fund
ESTAGRICO          Societe Cotonniere et Agricole de l'Est (Eastern Cotton Company)
INERA             Institut National pour 1'Etude et la Recherche Agronomiques
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
ONAFITEX           Office National des Fibres Textiles (National Textile Office)
ONATRA             Office National des Transports (National Transport Office)
OR                 Office des Routes (Highway Department)
PMKO               Projet Mais au Kasai Oriental (Kasai Oriental Maize Project)
PNM                Programme National Mais (National Maize Program)
PRONAM             Programme National Manioc (National Manioc Program)
PNS                Projet Nord-Shaba (North Shaba Project)
SNCZ               Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (National Railway Company)
SOFIDE             Societ6 Financiere de Developpement (Development Finance Company)
SOTEXCO            Societe Textile et Cotonniere (Textile and Cotton Company)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Zaire
Amount:                 SDR 9.8 million (US$11.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Co-lenders:             Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (US$2.2 million
equivalent); European Development Fund (US$6.8 million
equivalent); SOFIDE (US$1.1 million), all on parallel basis.
Re-lending Terms:       The IDA Credit would be on-lent to three cotton companies
at an interest rate of 15 percent per annum with the companies
assuming the foreign exchange risk. The loans would mature
in eight years with two-year grace periods.
Project Description:   The project is part of a long-term cotton rehabilitation
program. It aims at increasing annual cotton production
by about 30,000 tons in the areas of three major cotton
companies, which account for over 80% of Zaire's cotton
production. It would help reduce imports of cotton lint
and textiles. An additional objective would be to expand
production of foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton.
Risks:                  The main risks stem from the general situation of Zaire's
economy and administration and relate to the possibility of
inappropriate price policies and insufficient supply of
foreign exchange. Specific assurances on pricing policy
and availability of foreign exchange should minimize those
risks. Commercial and technical risks are low.
Estimated Costs:        Total project costs, excluding taxes and duties, are detailed
in the table below.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Local         Foreign          Total
--------     US$Million--------------
Cotton ginning                           2.3              4.3           6.6
Cotton marketing                         4.2            11.5           15.7
Road and bridge rehabilitation           4.2              1.8           6.0
Extension services                       1.7              1.3           3.0
Agricultural inputs                      0.7              1.6            2.3
Studies                                  0.2              1.2           1.4
Total Base Costs                        13.3             21.7          35.0
Physical Contingencies                   0.1              0.7           0.8
Price Contingencies                      1.3              2.2           3.5
Total Costs                     14.7             24.6           39.3
Financing Plan
Local            Foreign        Total    Percent
-----------------US$ Million----------- ----------
IDA                                       -             11.3           11.3         29
CCCE                                      -               2.2           2.2          6
EDF                                       -               6.8           6.8         17
SOFIDE                                    -               1.1           1.1          3
Cotton Companies                         8.6              2.3          10.9         27
Government                               6.1              0.9            7.0        18
14.7             24.6          39.3        100
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY                   1982      1983     1984      1985
-------------US$ Million--------
Annual                                  0.5     5.2       4.1       1.5
Cumulative                              0.5     5.7       9.8      11.3
Rate of Return: 62%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3495-ZR
Maps: IBRD 15029, 15030R, 15031R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A SECOND COTTON REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR9.8 million (US$11.3
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to finance the Second Cotton Rehabili-
tation Project. CCCE has already agreed to provide US$2.2 million equivalent,
and the European Development Fund US$6.8 million equivalent. The IDA Credit would
be on-lent by Government to three cotton companies for eight years including two
year grace period and at an interest rate of 15 percent. The EDF contribution
is a grant whereas the CCCE loan is for five years at an interest rate of 15
percent. In addition, a SOFIDE subloan under IDA's fifth credit line equivalent
to about US$1.1 million has been approved for financing of equipment under the
Project. This sub-loan's terms are four years with one year grace at an interest
rate of 15%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.     The last economic memorandum (Report No. 3287-ZR) was distributed on
June 8, 1981 and focused on developments in 1979 and 1980. The period since
then has witnessed a number of important developments regarding Zaire: on
June 22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended arrangement in support of a
medium-term (1981-83) economic recovery program; the economic situation,
performance and prospects of Zaire were reviewed at a meeting of the
Consultative Group later that month; and, in early July, Zaire negotiated
a new debt rescheduling agreement with the members of the Paris Club. These
developments and others are reflected below. Country data are attached as
Annex I.
Background
3.     Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and
the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at
about US$260 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approximately
one-third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the
population density is 12 persons per sq. km.  Urbanization has been proceeding
at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and half times the rate
of population growth. Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence
normally accounts for 25 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for
more than three-quarters of the population. The mining and mineral-processing
industry normally accounts for about 24 percent of GDP; it has traditionally
been the largest source of public revenue and provides more than two-thirds of
the country's export earnings. (The shares cited are 1977-79 averages, as
detailed GDP data for 1980 are not yet available).
l/ This Section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Agriculture Technical Assistance Project (P-3130-ZR of April 22, 1982).



- 2 -
4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally. The first 6-7 years following
independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe disruption of
the economy; but after the restoration of political order and stability in 1967,
GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then,
however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties, which have
brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these are: the progressive
accentuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by
the relative neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during
1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's
level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain
economic benefits; and the attempts to drastically change the ownership
structure of the economy through the zairianization and "radicalization"
(nationalization) measures of 1973-74. Though since rescinded, the
zairianization and nationalization measures had particularly adverse and lasting
effects on the economy: they seriously damaged private sector confidence both
at home and abroad, severely disrupted the transport and marketing links between
urban centers and the interior, and resulted in the neglect of the country's
productive capacity and infrastructure. The deterioration of Zaire's terms of
trade in 1975, owing largely to the fall in the international price of copper,
was a major contributor to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
6.      During 1975-77, the first three years of the crisis, Zaire's
commercialized GDP declined by about 10 percent in real terms. The Government
ran large budgetary deficits, domestic prices quadrupled, the overall balance of
payments deficit averaged more than US$450 million per year, and Zaire
accumulated about US$800 million of arrears on external debt, including
commercial credits and invisibles. Zaire adopted two stabilization programs,
with IMF support, during this period (in March 1976 and April 1977), but these
could not be fully implemented and failed to improve the situation.
7.      In 1978, commercialized GDP contracted by about 6 percent in real
terms. The overall budgetary deficit attained a record level of about Z 530
million, equivalent to about 12 percent of, commercialized GDP; and deficit
financing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel
and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50
percent. Between November 1, 1978 and January 2, 1979, the Government devalued
the zaire in four stages by a cumulative amount of 50 percent, or from Z 1.0
SDR 1.0 to Z 1.0 = SDR 0.5. Although the overall balance of payments deficit
was reduced to about $330 million, the deficit was financed primarily by a
further accumulation of arrears: total arrears (on public debt, short-term debt
and private non-guaranteed debt) increased from about US$800 million at the end
of 1977 to more than US$1.3 billion at the end of 1978. Two debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club during 1976-77 proved inadequate to alleviate the
debt situation.



-3-
Developments in 1979-1980
8.      Although the economic and financial situation of Zaire remained
difficult in 1979, the deterioration decelerated in several respects. According
to official estimates, commercialized GDP rose marginally (by 0.2 percent) and
the budgetary deficit was smaller both in nominal terms and as a proportion of
GDP than the year before. However, the budgetary deficit was again financed
entirely by recourse to the banking system. This plus the acceleration of
credit to the rest of the economy continued to exert pressure on prices, which
rose by more than 100 percent in the capital city during the year. The balance
of payments also remained under strong pressure, as evidenced by a further
accumulation of external payment arrears. On December 31, 1979, arrears
(including those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about
US$1.8 billion. The zaire was devalued by another 25 percent against the SDR on
August 27, 1979 and by another 30 percent on February 22, 1980, modifying the
rate to Z 1.00 = SDR 0.2625 = US$0.34 and bringing the cumulative devaluation
since November 1, 1978 to 74 percent.
9.      In August 1979, Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed
essentially to contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of
inflation (to 50-55 percent) and thereby create the conditions for a resumption
of economic growth. To these ends, the program called for, inter alia, a marked
reduction in the budgetary deficit and its monetary financing, a substantial
deceleration of domestic credit expansion, improved foreign exchange management,
and a flexible exchange rate policy. In support of this program, on August 27,
1979 the IMF approved a Stand-by Arrangement in the upper credit tranches of SDR
118 million for a period of 18 months. The implementation of the stabilization
program encountered some difficulties in 1979. However, Zaire met all the
performance criteria in 1980 and was able to purchase the full amount under the
Stand-by. The program contributed, inter alia, to reducing the inflation rate
from more than 100 percent the year before to 47 percent, or below the level
envisaged in the program.
10.     At the end of 1979, Zaire's external public debt, including undisbursed,
amounted to approximately US$4.6 billion. With the help of a banking group,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated banks (April 1980). The Paris Club agreement covered
debts totaling US$1.3 billion and comprising all arrears outstanding (including,
for the first time, arrears on insured short-term debt) as well as maturities
falling due in 1980. The syndicated banks agreed to reschedule all their
outstanding credits to Zaire (about US$400 million, of which US$290 million in
arrears) over a 10-year period, with a moratorium interest rate of LIBOR plus
1-7/8 percent during the first five years and LIBOR plus 2 percent thereafter.
During 1980, Zaire made a serious effort to respect these agreements; its actual
external public debt service totalled US$315 million, compared to US$168 million
in 1979.



- 4 -
11.     In 1980, the external resource constraints of the Government remained
very tight. Export growth was held back by the deterioration of the world
cobalt and coffee markets. Disbursements of medium and long term aid remained
unchanged, but debt service payments nearly doubled (to 20 percent of exports of
goods and nonfactor services) and net transfers were negligible or nil.
Nevertheless, the supply situation eased somewhat. While official imports
(imports with officially acquired resources) declined in real terms, total
imports cleared through customs registered a gain.  Thanks to this gain,
according to official estimates, commercialized GDP registered an increase of
2.3 percent in real terms. The economic situation was also helped by an
increase of 17 percent in Gecamines' copper output, although heavy taxation and
the bearishness of the cobalt market caused a serious delay in the company's
rehabilitation program.
12.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Government views as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps included the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its
customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and
administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy is the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and its reliance on the private sector.
Seven inefficient "commodity offices" were dissolved; some agricultural producer
prices were raised; under a scheme of "development agreements", an effort was
initiated to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of agriculture and
related infrastructure; a new investment code was promulgated; and a number of
reforms were undertaken in the management of state enterprises.
13.     In 1979, national and international attention concerning Zaire was
directed to the preparation of a medium-term public investment program (PIP),
and the Bank was asked to assist the Zairian authorities in this endeavor. In
August 1979, the Government completed such a program for the period 1979-81,
focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in priority sectors such as
transportation and agriculture. The execution of the PIP during 1979-80 was
constrained primarily by the shortage of resources and the execution of certain
on-going projects which had not been included in the PIP: only 40 percent of the
PIP could be executed in its first two years, compared to about 60 percent
foreseen under the program. Nevertheless, the experience proved valuable. The
preparation of the PIP constituted a first step toward the establishment of an
investment programming and budgeting process in Zaire. This process has been



- 5 -
yielding some of the desired results: technical experience has been building up;
programming and follow-up procedures are slowly being institutionalized; and the
agencies whose cooperation is crucial to the process are slowly being sensitized
to the importance of this very cooperation. In early 1981, the Government
prepared a new PIP for the years 1981-83, drawing on the experience with the
first program (see below).
Recent Developments and Steps toward Recovery
14.     The year 1981  witnessed a number of national and international actions
to set Zaire on the path to sustained economic recovery. First, Zaire focused
its investment program for 1981-83 more firmly on the priorities for recovery,
namely, the rehabilitation of existing productive capacity (especially mining)
and related infrastructure (especially transportation). These two sectors
account for nearly two-thirds of the program. Zaire also continued the process
of institutional reforms initiated in 1978-79. For example, it established an
External Resources Coordination Committee to deal speedily with all matters
relating to external assistance and particularly with project implementation
bottlenecks as they arise. The permanent members of the Committee include the
representatives of the UNDP, FED and the World Bank. In addition, a major
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Bank, is
being studied, and a review of the tax system is under way in cooperation with
the IMF.
15.     In mid-1981, the Zairian authorities drew up, with the cooperation of
the IMF, a new program of economic and financial recovery covering the period
1981-83. In conjunction with this program, the Zairian authorities took a
.number of interrelated steps toward stimulating and expanding supply, keeping
the growth of demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign exchange
management. On June 19, 1981, the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR as part of a flexible foreign exchange rate policy involving
frequent adjustments in the rate. Interest rates were adjusted upward and will
be reviewed periodically. And the existing price controls on most goods and
services were removed in order to stimulate the private sector. In support of
the medium term program, on June 22, 1981, the IMF approved an extended
arrangement for the three year period ending June 21, 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 912 million. In addition, Zaire has prepared an Agricultural
Action Plan whose specific prescriptions, some of which are still being worked
out, are designed to bring about improvements in the following key areas: (i)
strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit and
foreign exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects; (iv)
investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension and
training. It is the Government's intention to revitalize and develop this
important sector by relying on the private sector, limiting the Government's
role to the provision and maintenance of the necessary infrastructure.
16.     The economic situation and prospects of Zaire were the subject of
discussions at the meeting of the Consultative Group for Zaire held during June
1981. The participants expressed satisfaction with the improvements which had
taken place in the economic situation and management. They agreed with the
overall priorities of the public investment program and with the thrust of the
Government's policies, especially those designed to liberalize the economy and
stimulate the private sector. After a review of the Agricultural Action Plan,



-6-
it was decided co convene a meeting on agriculture in aid 1982, given the
importance of this sector and the need to assure follow-up as well as
coordination u' policies and actions, both internally and externally.   The
Consultative Group also reviewed the priorities within and government policies
in respect of the transport sector. A number of participants indicated their
intention to increase their overall assistance to Zaire in 1982 and beyond. In
July 1981, shortly after the meeting of the Consultative Group, Zaire
successfully negotiated with the Paris Club the rescheduling of maturities
falling due in 1981 and 1982, including the postponement of some of the already
rescheduled maturities. Under the terms of the new agreement, contingent on
compliance with the EFF, the debt service due in 1981 was reduced from US$700
million to US$490 million. If the delays in the signature of the bilateral
agreements are taken into account, the debt service effectively due was about
US$370 million, equivalent to 24 percent of exports of goods and non factor
services.
17.     ilthough management and institutional reforms continued during 1981, the
physical progress of the economy toward recovery was slowed down due to a
combination of external and internal factors. According to preliminary
estimates, the weakness of the copper, cobalt and coffee markets caused a 17
percent decline in merchandise exports in nominal terms. Merchandise imports
fell 13 percent short of the projections under the IMF program and were about 8
percent lower in real terms than the level of 1980. As a result, Zaire will be
able to purchase the equivalent of SDR US$106.9 million under the compensatory
financing facility of the IMF. Zaire also experienced growing difficulties in
meeting its debt service obligations and began accumulating arrears in the
second semester of the year. Developments in the external sector (a major
source of government revenue) had a very negative impact on government
finances. This, coupled with a weakening of budgetary discipline, caused the
budgetary deficit and its banking-system financing to exceed the program targets
for September 30 and December 31, 1981. Consequently, Zaire was not able to
purchase the third and fourth tranches under the IMF program. However the
inflation rate was reduced somewhat during the year and, despite the above
difficulties, the Government continued to refine its Agricultural Action Plan,
began updating the public investment program once again, reaffirmed its
intention to improve the management of Gecamines and Sozacom (the state mining
and mineral marketing companies, respectively), and announced it intention to
transfer the ownership of 37 public enterprises to the private sector.
18.     Zaire retains a significant potential in mineral resources, energy and
agriculture. Its difficulties of the last few years have been aggravated
considerably by exogenous factors such as the protracted weakness of copper
prices and, more recently, those of cobalt. Economic developments in Zaire will
continue to depend on the vagaries of world commodity prices. Adjusting to the
resource constraints and other difficulties brought on by the crisis has been
seriously hampered by the overall weakness of institutions, the inadequacy of
administrative controls, and the deficiencies of economic decision-making.
While overcoming these difficulties will take time, through the cooperation of



-7-
the Government with the major donors, including the IMF and the Bank, a set of
actions aiming at the progressive de-control of the economy has been mapped out
for setting Zaire more firmly on the path to recovery. Achieving the desired
recovery will require perseverance on the part of Zaire as well as continued
efforts by the donors to keep the external debt burden at a manageable level and
to replenish the project pipeline which has been severely depleted in the last
few years (from US$1.2 billion in 1975 to an estimated US$550 million at
present).
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
19.     Since 1969, Zaire has received 26 IDA credits totaling US$374 million
for transport, agriculture, development finance company operations, water
supply, power and education projects. The Bank has also extended grants
totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning assistance
projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million for the
Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
IFC, which has a US$760,000 equity participation in the Societe Financiere de
Developpement Economique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan for an
offshore oil production project in September 1978. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982
and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
20.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been institution
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority. In the case of Gecamines, the Bank
loan originated'a dialogue, still ongoing, intended to define ways and means to
strengthen the management, financial position and planning of the company.
21.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with Zairian
officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which for the first time
provided an integrated view of implementation problems. This has resulted in an
acceleration and improvement in the utilization of the Bank's assistance,
particularly in the agriculture sector.
22.     Ten credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:  Credits 152, 292
and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project); Credit 272-CK (Education Project); Credit 398-ZR (Livestock
Project); Credits 190, 271 and 463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE Projects);
Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).



-8-
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Water Supply,
Education, Livestock and Gecamines, and Performance Audit Reports have been
issued for the First SOFIDE and the first Highway Projects. The conclusion of
the audit and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution
building had been mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an effective and competent
institution, and the Office des Routes, the highway agency, had been able to
establish an effective administrative set-up. On the other hand, ONATRA's
performance had not improved as a result of the first River Transport Project
but did improve under a follow-up project; implementation by RVF and RVM had
disappointing results, but financial results of operations had improved. All
entities had encountered operating difficulties beyond their control as the
economy deteriorated, financial resources grew scarcer and the problems
besetting the investment environment were exacerbated by Government's
zairianization/radicalization measures. Bank Group support to SOFIDE and the OR
is continuing under Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects (Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and a
Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 916-ZR). RVF and RVM received assistance through a
second River Transport Project (Cr. 571-ZR); and ONATRA will benefit from a
recently approved Modernization Project.
23.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the East Africa
Region. For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements totalled US$101 million
compared with new commitments of US$105 million. In this same period, the
average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 24 percent; this compares favorably with an average
rate of about 20 percent for other countries of the region. While disbursement
performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen in several
projects. In the case of early credits for transport, education and livestock
(Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong project entity to
create an implementation momentum caused general delays. Economic conditions
were also a factor in slowing project programs in instances where government
counterpart funds were not available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second
Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced slow
recovery from the aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit
710-ZR). Future project implementation should be less affected by the above
influences given the strengthening of institutions under subsequent projects and
efforts by the Government to improve its budgetary support of IDA-financed
projects. At end 1981, the Bank Group share of Zaire's total debt disbursed and
outstanding was less than 10 percent.
24.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and implementation
of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were also emphasized
through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector, in particular the Voie Nationale; to assist the development of
the agriculture sector within the framework of the new Agricultural Action Plan
(see para. 15 above) through improvement of agricultural policies,the
strengthening of agricultural institutions and the financing of projects
designed to increase the production of both foodcrops and industrial crops, and
to promote the development of the industrial and mining sectors. In addition,
further support will be considered for the energy sector. Recently appraised



- 9 -
projects include a sixth line of credit to SOFIDE, which will include provi-
sion for further lending for agriculture, and a second phase project for the
Ituri Region.
25.       The Bank Group has supported seven projects for agricultural develop-
ment to date (two for livestock development, one each for cotton (see para.
42), oil palm, maize and sugar development, and one pilot rural development
project), all of which are on-going. The principal problems faced by most of
the ongoing agricultural projects in general include; (a) shortage of Govern-
ment counterpart funds for project entities; (b) inadequate pricing policies
and review mechanisms; (c) inadequate marketing infrastructure; and (d) lack
of qualified local staff and essential technical assistance. The Government
has started a systematic review of agricultural projects to identify and to
remove these bottlenecks in project implementation.
III.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE COTTON SUB-SECTOR
General
26.       Agriculture is vital to Zaire's economy, employing 70-75% of the
population. Its contribution to GDP and exports, however, has been declining
as a result of the deterioration of general economic conditions whereas
imports of agricultural products have been increasing. Inadequate or unclear
policies and the weakness of key agricultural institutions have constrained
agricultural rehabilitation and development.
27.       Production Systems.  Zaire's agriculture is characterized by the
co-existence of modern and traditional sectors. It is estimated that the
modern sector contributes about 40% to agriculture's present share of GDP; the
traditional sector, about 60%. The modern sector includes two main categories
of production units: large, corporation-owned plantations using modern
techniques and inputs and smaller, individually-owned farms and ranches.
The principal crops produced by the modern sector are palm oil, sugar, rubber,
tobacco, coffee, cocoa and cattle. The traditional sector comprises an
estimated three to four million farming units averaging about 1.5 ha each.
The traditional crops grown are cassava, maize, rice, cotton, peanuts,
vegetables and tropical fruits. Before independence, the Government-s main
focus for traditional agriculture was on the cultivation of cotton. Services
for peasant agriculture were generally oriented toward cotton production and
the Government worked mainly through private companies to provide inputs,
services and supplies to farmers and to build the necessary processing and
marketing infrastructure. Following zairianization and nationalization, the
private companies could no longer fulfill their accustomed role in the rural
areas and the Government was unable to replace them effectively. In 1978,
a new institutional structure based essentially on mixed-capital companies
was put in place and has helped increase cotton production (para. 37).



- 10 -
28.       Marketing and Pricing.  Government has made repeated efforts to
regulate marketing operations, with the objective of guaranteeing a fair
return to producers and adequate supplies of food and basic commodities to
urban consumers at a reasonable cost. Problems relating to marketing and
pricing of agricultural products remain, however, and are among the most
serious obstacles to development of the sector. The major causes of these
problems include inappropriate policies, an inability to implement measures in
a timely fashion and physical deficiencies in the marketing, transport and
storage infrastructure. The Government has in the past established price
levels for producers to be administered regionally, but has been unable to
provide any mechanism to enforce the established price or to guarantee that
farmers crops will be purchased; actual farm-gate prices have in fact far
exceeded the official minimum prices. Recently, the Government has taken
positive steps towards price liberalization. These pricing policies are of
particular importance for cotton as discussed below in para. 35.
29.       Sectoral Institutions.  Traditionally, the role of Government
institutions in promoting and regulating agricultural development in Zaire was
relatively restricted while the private sector dominated the development of
modern agricultural activities. The Government has tried to expand its role
but few public resources have actually been devoted to agricultural development.
The Department (Ministry) of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) is respon-
sible for agricultural policy, extension services, veterinary and research
services, technical supervision of parastatal institutions, rural water supply
and cooperative development. Other ministries whose activities affect agricul-
ture include: the Department of the National Economy, responsible for price
policies; the Department of the Portfolio, responsible for supervision of com-
panies in which the Government holds shares; the Department of the Environment,
responsible for the development and regulation of forestry activities; the
Department of Education which undertakes agricultural education and the Office
des Routes (OR), responsible for development and maintenance of a large part
of the national road network. In addition, a number of parastatal institu-
tions have responsibilities for agricultural production, marketing, and
regulation; they include commodity offices for livestock (ONDE), coffee
(OZACAF), fishing (ONP), and cotton (CSCo). SOFIDE, the development finance
institution, established an agricultural department in 1976 and offers medium
and long term credit for agricultural and agro-industrial projects.
30.       Government Strategy for the Sector.  In the past decade, the
Government, with substantial assistance and encouragement from external
agencies, has formulated a series of programs for agricultural recovery.
To date, however, these various plans have not been carried out and the sector
has continued to receive inadequate attention. The Government is currently
engaged in defining the framework for a coordinated program of agricultural
development. An Agricultural Action Plan has been designed to stimulate
short-term recovery; first, by removing critical bottlenecks; second, by
making on-going projects and programs work better; and third, by specific
efforts to encourage small farmers and private companies to produce and market



- 11 -
food crops, cotton, sugar and oil palm, and to export coffee and forestry
products. It includes measures to strengthen the institutional support for
agricultural policies and investments, the development of new approaches to
critical agricultural policy issues, review of on-going projects, a prepara-
tion of a 1982-84 investment plan for agriculture within the context of the
Mobutu Plan, and an analysis of import needs and priorities. IDA and several
other development agencies have encouraged these efforts and supported the
Government s broad strategy and objectives, on which there is basic agreement.
The Cotton Sub-sector
31.       Cotton cultivation has been an important factor in the rural devel-
opment of a large area of Zaire since the early 1920s and has remained
exclusively a smallholder crop grown in rotation with food crops. The Govern-
ment has accorded considerable importance to the cotton sub-sector in the
country-s economic recovery program, and following a major institutional
reorganization in 1978, the sub-sector is once again playing an important role
in the development of rural areas of Zaire. Production of cotton has increased
from an all-time low of 16,700 tons in 1978 to 29,300 tons in 1980 (still less
than one-fifth of the record level of 180,000 tons reached in 1959). It is
estimated that about 300,000 farm families are currently cultivating cotton on
about 90,000 ha or about 2 percent of Zaire's cultivated land area.
32.       Until 1950, almost all of Zaire-s cotton production was exported as
lint, but by the late 1950s, about 20% of lint production was consumed by the
local textile industry and about 80% was exported; cotton exports represented
about 15% of the value of agricultural exports and about 5% of total exports.
With continued declines in cotton production, locally-produced fiber was no
longer sufficient to satisfy the domestic industry, and imports were required.
Imports however are constrained by the availability of foreign exchange. As
a result, the textile industry operates at far less than capacity (presently
at 50% of capacity).
Cotton Marketing and Processing
33.       The marketing of seed cotton and its processing into lint are carried
out by regional cotton companies; a parastatal institution, the Caisse de Stabi-
lisation Cotonniere (CSCo), supervises the operations of these companies
and organizes the distribution of lint among the domestic textile firms. The
Government has given regional cotton companies the monopoly on purchasing
cotton; this monopoly requires that they buy all seed cotton produced in their
respective areas. Cotton lint is shipped to domestic textile mills according
to quotas established by CSCo in cooperation with the textile mills.
34.       Sixty-four ginneries currently process Zaire's cotton harvest.  Ten
additional ginneries could be put into operation without major expenditures
but are currently not being used because of insufficient cotton production.
The ginneries in operation are 30-50 years old and prone to frequent break-
downs. Due to the still low levels of cotton production, the ginneries are
currently operating at about one-half of their capacity.



- 12 -
Cotton Pricing
35.       During the 1970s, Government set cotton producer prices administra-
tively and followed a policy of keeping raw cotton prices low. Prices of
cotton were doubled in June 1976, July 1978 and again in July 1979; while these
higher prices made cotton production more attractive to some farmers, they
were not sufficiently high to coax increased production near urban centers and
supply arteries where foodcrops were more profitable and near national borders
where possible export was discouraged by the overvalued Zairian currency. In
response to farmers' dissatisfaction, the Government increased the producer
price per kg to X 1.15 (first quality) and Z 0.90 (second quality) in June
1981. A further substantial increase to 9 1.80 per Kg (first quality) and Z
1.30 per Kg (second quality) was made effective in December 1981. Because
cotton producers cannot sell their crop in a competitive market, the official
set price has virtually always been applied and respected. Cotton pricing
policies thus have had particular importance. To permit more pricing flexi-
bility while continuing to protect the producer, the Government altered its
policy in June 1981: cotton producer prices set by the Department of National
Economy are floor prices and cotton companies are free to adjust prices upwards
at their discretion. This new policy should lead to substantial production
increases if competitive producer prices are applied in high potential cotton
growing areas. Prior to June 1981, cotton lint prices were fixed by the
Department of National Economy based on proposals by ONAFITEX and subsequently
CSCo in consultation with the cotton companies and the textile industry.
Since June 1981, lint pricing has been liberalized by removing the requirement
that the Department of National Economy review and approve lint prices.
The Textile Industry
36.       The textile manufacturing sector, measured on a value-added basis
and by the number of people employed, is the third largest manufacturing
industry in Zaire, after mining and food/beverage processing. It employs
15,000 workers directly and indirectly supports another 10,000. The textile
industry is composed of six major companies plus three minor ones, and instal-
lations are concentrated in Kinshasa, Lubumbashi, Kalemie and Kisangani. All
of the textile enterprises are Zairian companies with a majority of shares
held by foreign owners. The current installed weaving capacity can treat a
lint volume of about 21,000 tons per year corresponding to aMout 60,000 tons
of seed cotton; printing capacity totals about 100 million m per year. A
decline in cotton production since 1960 has resulted in temporary scarcities
of cotton supplies and has necessitated lint imports during the 1960's and
since 1976. The domestic textile mills have been in the last four years
supplying about half of Zaire's textile consumption. However, sales of the
local textile industry decreased significantly in late 1981 mainly as a result
of a large increase in imports of second-hand clothes following import libera-
lization measures. The Government is considering a series of actions to
assist the recovery of sales of domestic textiles, including export incentives.



- 13 -
Key Cotton Institutions
37.       Government policy since 1978 has sought to establish an institutional
structure capable of rehabilitating the cotton subsector. To this end, CSCo
(para 33) was established in August 1978 to supervise and coordinate subsec-
tor activities, and four regional cotton companies: COTON-ZAIRE, la Societe
Cotonniere et Agricole du Kasai et Maniema (La COTONNIERE), la Societe Textile
et Cotonniere et Agricole du Haut Zaire (SOTEXCO), and la Societe Cotonniere
et Agricole de l'Est Zairois (ESTAGRICO), were organized during 1978-79 to
assume seed cotton marketing and processing operations. CSCo operates under
the jurisdiction of the Department of Agriculture and Rural Development and
has three departments: (i) administration and finance; (ii) marketing; and
(iii) general inspection. CSCo staff (55 people) are competent and motivated
and staff turnover has not been a problem. The principal tasks of CSCo are:
(i) assuring quality control of seed cotton and cotton lint; (ii) distributing
lint production between local textile mills; (iii) coordinating cotton research;
(iv) managing Government assets in the sub-sector; and (v) defining cotton
export regulations and procedures. It has played a particularly important role
in reviewing seed cotton and cotton lint prices and in coordinating financing
efforts for the subsector. CSCo is financially well-managed and all costs of
its operations are covered by revenues from its lint distribution activities.
38.       Three of the four cotton companies, la COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO and
ESTAGRICO are mixed capital enterprises and would benefit from the proposed
Project.  Their areas of operation are: for la COTONNIERE, Kasai-Oriental and
Maniema; for SOTEXCO, Haut-Zaire; and for ESTAGRICO, Tanganyika, part of Haut-
Lomami (Shaba) and Uvira (South Kivu). To date most of the ginneries and
some other installations used by the cotton companies do not form part of the
companies capital but remain Government property; purchase/lease arrangements
between the Government and the cotton companies are being finalized. In
addition to marketing and processing seed cotton, the regional cotton companies
have started a number of related development activities: these include
marketing and processing foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton; selling
consumer goods to farmers at cost prices; providing extension services to
cotton producers; and rehabilitating roads and bridges in their areas of
jurisdiction. In addition, three purely private companies operate in Shaba
and Kasai-Occidental pursuing diversified activities, among which are cotton
marketing and ginning; they operate five ginneries and contribute less than
one percent of national cotton production.
Cotton Research and Extension
39.       Cotton research is conducted at three stations operated by INERA,
the national agricultural research organization. Gandajika is the principal
cotton research station and was responsible for the development of the new
variety "Zaire" which is currently being disseminated in the southern cotton
growing areas.  All stations produce basic seeds of the recommended cotton
varieties in addition to conducting cotton research; they also experiment with
varieties of rice, groundnuts, maize and cassava. The limited activities of
the research stations do not pose a short term obstacle to the recovery of
cotton production since the traditional varieties give satisfactory yields if



- 14 -
seed is pure and the new variety "Zaire" gives improved yields. Furthermore,
the cotton companies are supplementing the work of the INERA stations by
multiplying seeds for distribution by their extension services.
40.       Extension services for cotton producers are provided by the regional
cotton companies in their areas of operation (para. 38). Extension workers
follow a strict schedule of visits with farmers and report regularly to their
superiors. The quality of extension staff of the cotton companies is in
general good. In addition, the companies are planning to carry out field
training of extension workers in order to further improve their knowledge of
cotton cultivation and to enable them to advise farmers on crops grown in
rotation with cotton.
Development Constraints and Potential
41.       The most important obstacles to the development of the cotton
sub-sector are shortage of physical inputs such as spare parts for ginneries
and vehicles, insecticides and farm tools, as well as limited extension staff
and inadequate road maintenance. Ginnery breakdowns result in standstills
which account for about 15% of ginning time at present; it is estimated that
only about 60% of the vehicle fleet is operational at any given moment and bad
roads impede efficient marketing. The lack of insecticides has resulted in
considerable losses of seed cotton, and the shortage of farm tools prevent the
farmers from preparing and working their fields effectively. Extension services
have been hampered by the lack of bicycles and motorbikes for extension per-
sonnel. Nevertheless, the short-term potential for successful rehabilitation
of the cotton sub-sector is considerable. Since the creation of CSCo and the
regional cotton companies, cotton operations are again being carried out in an
orderly fashion, extension services are well organized and the inputs which
are becoming available are distributed systematically. If the achievements of
the past few years are to be consolidated and improved upon, however, rehabi-
litation of ginnery facilities, renewal of the transport fleet, regular road
maintenance, and strengthening of the extension services must take place. It
is estimated that if these constraints were successfully eliminated, cotton
production in the areas of the three mixed-capital cotton companies would
increase to about 55,000 tons per year by 1984/85; total national production
would then amount to about 65,000 tons per year.
Bank Support to the Cotton Sub-Sector
42.       The Bank Group has financed one project in the cotton sub-sector
to rehabilitate cotton operations in the Equateur region. The Project was
approved by the Executive Directors in September 1976, and the US$8.0 million
Credit (Cr. 660-ZR) became effective in May 1977. Project implementation was
seriously delayed by management problems in ONAFITEX, the national cotton
organization prior to 1978, and was further disrupted by its dissolution in
May 1978. This resulted in an uncertain legal environment, disputes over the
degree of autonomy to be exercised by the Belgian-financed technical assistance
team, lack of local funds and substantial delays in procurement. An action
program agreed upon by Government and IDA resulted in the transformation in
1979 of the Project Unit into a parastatal company, COTON-ZAIRE, which assumed



- 15 -
responsibility for marketing, ginning, extension, and road rehabilitation
activities in Equateur. Since that time the situation has improved substan-
tially. Essential equipment was delivered to the Project area, additional
equipment has been ordered, the technical assistance team has been integrated
into the company with clear responsibilities, and the extension services have
been reorganized. Government budget funds were released for investment
counterparts and for working capital, and COTON-ZAIRE is participating in the
general cotton lint sales and distribution system established by CSCo.
Although COTON-ZAIRE is managed satisfactorily, the training of local personnel
needs to be strengthened.  Execution of the road component has been weak,
largely due to delays in delivery of equipment.  Cotton production is still
low but has been recovering since 1979.  Further increases are expected for
the next two campaigns because of producer price increases and availability of
insecticides.  The closing date of the Credit is December 31, 1982.  The
experience of implementation of this project has been taken into account in
the design of the proposed Project, notably by focusing on implementation
arrangements.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The proposed Project was prepared by CSCo and appraised by a Bank
mission which visited Zaire in November/December 1980. Negotiations were held
in Washington from March 28 to 31, 1982; the Zairian delegation was led by
the Agriculture Minister Kamitatu Massamba. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Zaire: Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project" and numbered 3495-ZR has been
circulated to the Executive Directors separately. A project and Credit
summary is given at the beginning of this report. Supplementary Project data
are contained in Annex III.
General Description and Objectives
44.       The proposed Project would be implemented over four years and
would form an essential element of a long-term cotton rehabilitation program
initiated by the Government of Zaire in 1978 (paras. 31 and 37). The main
Project objective is to increase cotton production in the areas of three major
cotton companies, La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO, and ESTAGRICO (para. 38) from about
23,000 tons of seed cotton per annum to 55,000 tons by 1984/85 and thereby
substitute for imports of cotton lint or textiles. Additional objectives are
to stimulate production of foodcrops grown in rotation with cotton and to
improve living conditions in cotton growing areas through improvement of
communications and health services.
Detailed Features
45.       Rehabilitation and Improvement of Ginneries and Workshops.  La
COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO, and ESTAGRICO currently operate 47 of Zaire's 64 gin-
neries (para. 34). Stocks of ginnery spare parts are almost non-existent, and



- 16 -
frequent breakdowns are likely if maintenance needs are not met. Under the
Project, ginning facilities would be rehabilitated by supplying the necessary
spare parts and materials. The most urgently needed parts and materials are
for the gins, fans, presses, and pumps. The diesel engines of ginneries that
are old and unreliable would be replaced, and workshop equipment for repair of
ginneries and vehicles would be replaced or supplemented. The principal
investment items would be ginnery spare parts, electric generators, diesel
engines, and assorted equipment for workshops.
46.       Improvement in Cotton Marketing Operations.  Cotton marketing ope-
rations are currently constrained by the unreliability and inadequate size
of the companies' vehicle fleets. Trucks would be provided for cotton market-
ing operations and would also be used by the companies for marketing of food
crops and commercial products. Additional light vehicles would be provided to
facilitate control of company activities other than extension services. The
main investment items would be about seventy 6 to 7-ton trucks, about thirty
9- to 10-ton trucks and about 60 light vehicles (4-wheel drive and pick-ups).
An adequate supply of spare parts for the vehicle fleet would also be provided.
47.       Improvement and Maintenance of Roads.  About 11,000 km of earth
roads and bridges would be improved and maintained principally by manual
methods.  Most of the road and bridge rehabilitation program was defined in
1980 by the cotton companies in coordination with the Office des Routes (OR)
and CSCo. The program includes all roads of principal interest for cotton
evacuation, among them many national trunk roads. The rehabilitation program
would be updated in annual work plans prepared by the cotton companies and OR.
The main investment items would be dump-trucks, 4-wheel drive vehicles for
chief supervisors, motorbikes and bicycles for other supervisors.
48.       Strengthening of Extension Services.  The number of extension agents
in the zones of the three cotton companies is planned to increase from a base
of 850 (late 1980) to about 1,900 in 1984, about one agent per 150 farmers.
This high ratio is justified by the difficult working conditions and the
expanded responsibilities of extension staff (coverage of all crops grown in
rotation with cotton).. Means of transport would be provided for extension
staff and regular training courses would be organized by the cotton companies.
The main investment items would be 4-wheel drive vehicles and motorbikes for
the supervisors, and bicycles for the extension agents.
49.       Farm Tools and Pest Control.  Lack of pest control and insufficient
supply of farm tools partially account for the decrease of cotton yields in
Zaire over the past few years. As part of Project activities, cotton companies
would supply insecticides in the most productive cotton growing areas; about
8,000 ha would be treated in Project Year 2, increasing to about 15,000 ha in
Project Year 4, or approximately 13% of the total area under cotton. Insecti-
cides would be applied after pest checks by the extension services and under
their supervision. Farm tools would be sold to farmers for land clearing and
other tasks related to cotton and food crop cultivation. Most of the farm
tools would originate in Zaire, but if necessary, some orders might be placed
with foreign suppliers.



17 -
50.       Studies.  Studies would be carried out by consultants to analyze the
subsector's long-term needs and prospects: These studies would investigate
future structural changes, focusing particularly on intensification of cotton
production in different high potential areas and on varietal research. Part of
the study funds would also be used for training of personnel of CSCo and the
cotton companies.
Organization and Management
51.       CSCo would play a key role in Project implementation.  It would
supervise Project activities, monitor Project progress, and prepare inter-
national tenders, orders, and disbursement applications in conjunction with
the cotton companies. CSCo would also be responsible for preparing terms of
reference and hiring consultants to carry out sectoral studies (para. 50).
The Government would at all times keep the position of general manager/pre-
sident of the Board of CSCo as well as the three directors positions filled
with qualified and experienced personnel (Section 4.04 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Appropriate procedures for monitoring Project
progress are already to a large extent in place. CSCo would continue this
activity under the Project and would, in addition, submit a semi-annual report
on Project progress to IDA.
52.       Under the supervision of CSCo, la COTONNIERE, ESTAGRICO, and SOTEXCO
would carry out all Project components except for the studies (para. 50).
Road rehabilitation and bridge repair works would be carried out by special
organizational units set up and managed by the cotton companies. Extension
services would be organized as specialized departments of the cotton companies.
Senior agronomists would supervise extension workers and would provide in-
service training. La COTONNIERE, SOTEXCO, and ESTAGRICO have sufficient
ginnery and marketing staff for project start-up. Over the Project implementa-
tion period, no additional high level professionals would be needed. However,
with increased cotton production additional ginnery and marketing workers
would have to be hired. It is estimated that during the Project implementation
period ginnery and marketing staff would increase by about 20%.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       Total Project costs are estimated at about US$39.3 million equivalent
of which about US$24.6 million equivalent or 63% represent foreign exchange
costs. Project costs were estimated in October 1981 prices. A physical
contingency of 5% was applied to all Project investment items to reflect
possible minor changes in quantities. Price contingencies were applied on the
costs of all goods and services on a cumulative basis at the annual rates of
9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982 and 7.5% thereafter. Taxes included in Project
costs are negligible: all imported items would be exempt from taxes and duties,
and other taxes would be insignificant. The average cost of consultants has
been estimated at US$12,000 per man-month. Financing of Project costs would
be shared as follows: the Government of Zaire would contribute 18% of total
Project costs; the three cotton companies, 27%; EDF, 17%; CCCE, 6%; SOFIDE,
3%; and IDA, 29%.



- 18 -
54.       The proposed IDA Credit would be to the Government of Zaire on
standard IDA terms. The Credit would finance about 45% of foreign exchange
costs and would cover foreign exchange expenditures for investment items
(cotton marketing and ginning) and studies. Financing on a parallel basis by
the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the European Development
Fund (EDF), and SOFIDE would also be limited to foreign exchange expenditures;
the EDF grant would finance about 30% of foreign exchange costs, the CCCE
credit, about 10% and the SOFIDE credit, 5%. CCCE's and SOFIDE's participation
would finance vehicles only. The EDF grant would be for vehicles, spare parts,
an initial stock of insecticides, and materials for road works and extension
services. All the co-financing agreements have already been signed and become
effective. The Government's contribution would finance all operating costs
and a small part of the investment costs of the road and extension components.
The IDA Credit would be on-lent to the three cotton companies for eight years
(including two-year grace) at an interest rate of 15% per annum, which is positive
since the companies would assume the foreign exchange risk. The execution of subsidiary
loan agreements between Government and each of the three companies would be a
condition of effectiveness (see Section 6.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The working capital needs of the three mixed-capital cotton
companies would be regularly reviewed by the shareholders and the amount of
cash working capital be kept at or above a level corresponding to four months
of fixed operating costs at all times (Section 4.03 of the draft Project
Agreement). Sufficient foreign exchange would be made available during
Project implementation to enable the cotton companies to carry on their
operations efficiently (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
55.       Under the IDA Credit, contracts for the supply of materials and
equipment exceeding US$100,000 (totalling about US$8.0 million including
contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding ia accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for materials and
equipment costing each less than US$100,000 (not expected to exceed a total of
about US$0.5 million) would be awarded on the basis of limited international
tendering. With regard to specialized spare parts for existing ginnery
equipment and the existing vehicle fleet, direct orders amounting to a total
of not more than US$1.4 million would be placed with the original manufacturers.
CSCo would be responsible for handling international tenders and would group
the contracts for the three companies to the extent possible; the entering
into of satisfactory procurement arrangements by CSCo and the cotton companies
would be a condition of effectiveness (see Section 6.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). IDA would approve final terms of reference and
contracts for consultants hired to conduct studies (see Section 3.03 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Credit funds would be disbursed over
three years against: (a) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures for vehicles, vehicle spare parts, ginnery spare parts
(including diesel engines and generators), and workshop equipment; and (b)
100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for costs of
consultants and auditors' services. All withdrawal applications would be
fully documented.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audits
56.       Parastatals and mixed-capital companies are not routinely audited in
Zaire. However, Government financial control procedures exist for companies
with Government participation; records and accounts are reviewed by accounting
specialists appointed for this task but this control is not regular. In order
to provide for adequate financial records of Project implementation, assurances
were obtained that (i) during the Project implementation period the accounts
of CSCo and the three cotton companies would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (ii) the audited financial statements together with the
auditor report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of the
fiscal year (Section 4.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement). Foreign exchange costs of the
audits would be eligible for financing out of the Credit proceeds.
Benefits, Risks and Justification
57.       Cotton production in the areas covered by SOTEXCO, La COTONNIERE
and ESTAGRICO is expected to increase as a result of Project activities.
The area planted to cotton has been projected to grow from 78,000 ha to
112,000 ha over the Project period, yielding incremental production in the
region of 30,000 tons per annum; the number of cotton farmers is expected to
remain constant. Most of the incremental production would come from the
expanded planted area but some 15% of the increase would be due to the use of
improved seeds, improved cultivation techniques and insecticides. Project
activities are also expected to have a beneficial effect on food production as
a result of improved road conditions and marketing operations. Whereas
preliminary estimates indicate that additional fooderop production in the
Project areas could amount to as much as 200,000 tons of cassava, 50,000 tons
of maize and 10,000 tons of paddy and groundnuts, these increases have not
been taken into account in calculating economic benefits because of marketing
uncertainties. Some 245,000 farm families would be expected to benefit to
some extent from Project activities, increasing their annual income from about
US$50 to US$120 in the case of those who would not use insecticides, and to
US$170 for those who would. The latter would be about 13% of total. The
economic rate of return is estimated at about 62%; this high value is due to
the rehabilitation character of the Project. Because of the importance of
maintaining the prices paid to cotton producers at levels sufficient to
stimulate production, the Government would continue to conduct semi-annual
reviews of minimum producer prices and would consult with IDA on appropriate
price levels before June 1 and December .1 of each year (Section 4.05 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). Project activities would also have an
employment creating effect: some 5,800 road workers, 240 foremen, 70 super-
visors and five chiefs of operations would be recruited over a four year
period for the road works. Extension staff required for Project activities
would total almost 2,000.
58.       Project activities are not expected to have an adverse environmental
effect. The area treated with insecticide would represent only 0.6% of the
cultivated area of Zaire. Insect and pest resistance is not expected to arise
because applications of the chemicals would be rotated and not repeated on the



- 20 -
same fields for several years. The exposure of workers to cotton dust would
be reduced considerably through improvement in ginnery equipment.
59.       The main risks confronting the Project stem from the general situa-
tion of Zaire's economy and administration and relate to the possibility
that price policies be inappropriate and the supply of foreign exchange be
insufficient. The assurances about semi-annual price reviews (para 57) and
the availability of sufficient foreign exchange for cotton subsector operations
(para 54) should minimize those risks. Commercial risks are low since (i)
cotton lint production is currently only about 50% of the local textile
industry's installed capacity and (ii) Zaire's lint production can be expected
to remain economically viable and thus competitive in the medium term,
allowing export of the production that could not be utilized by the local
textile industry.   The agricultural risks are also low since cotton growing
is well known by Zairian farmers and reinforcement of extension services is
expected to motivate farmers to apply improved cultivation methods.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the cotton
companies and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be the execution of the
subsidiary loan agreements and the entering into of satisfactory procurement
arrangements (paras. 54 and 55).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by M. Qureshi
Attachments
May 25, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-21 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3.6                                                     Page  1  of  5
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            2345.4                                  MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      310.0               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER GAPITA (US$)                   100.0        170.0     260.0                  238.3                   794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        97.6       105.4      102.5                   70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 17756.0       21638.0   27509.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.7          21.6       32.7                  17.5                     27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         49.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          139.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          7.6         9.2       11.7                  27.7                     55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       58.0        69.0       86.3                  73.7                    130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           44.1        44.3       44.7                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                           52.9        52.9       52.6                  52.4                     51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0          2.8       2.7                    2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.2         2.0        2.7                    2.6                     2.8
URbAN                                 ..          5.2       7.3                   6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.1        47.1       45.9                  46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       24.2         21.3      18.1                   19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          3.0       3.0                    3.1                     3.2
FANILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           101.0       101.0       88.0                  89.5                     89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   100.0        101.0      104.0                  90.2                     92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            36.0        37.0       36.0                  52.7                     52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.0        13.0       10.0                  17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       35.7         31.6      25.4                   27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0          42.9       46.8                  45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         11.0      16.0                  23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                 ..        33.0       43.0                  55.0                     74.3
RURAL                                 ..          4.0       5.0                   18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          5.0      22.0                   26.2
URBAN                                 ..          5.0      67.0                  63.5
RURAL                                 ..          5.0       6.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           37621.6     29300.8   15529.3                31911.8                  13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3511.7       5067.3    1938.0                3674.9                   2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              230.9       320.0      339.0                1238.8                   1028.4
URBAN                               57.2        96.8      145.0                 272.8                    423.0
RURAL                              770.5      1066.7    2622.5                 1745.2                   3543;.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          6.1        ..                     ..      -
RURAL                                 ..          ..        6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 . .
URBAN
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..
URBAN                                 .            .         .
RURAL



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                               Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
ZAIRE -80C7L  iDICATORS DATA SUET
ZAIRE                         REFRENce CEROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
WOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIIATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PR7IMARY:    TOTAL                60.0        88.0      90.0                 56.4                   73.7
MALE                 88.0       110.0     103.0                 70.7                   96.8
FEMALE               32.0        65.0      77.0                 50.1                   79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 3.0         9.0      19.0                 10.0                   16.2
MALE                  4.0        13.0      23.0                 13.6                   25.3
FEMALE                1.0         4.0      14.0                  6.6                   14.8
VOCATIONAL ENgtOL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 27.0        10.0      13.0                  8.0                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO        -
PRIMARY                           *0.0        43.0        ..                 46.5                   36.2
SECONDARY                         20.0        20.0      27.0                 25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       31.0/c      13.0      15.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         3.0       3.6                  2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         2.9       4.8                 32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.3       0.3                  1.9                    8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  1.0         9.2       1.8                  2.8                   20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1         0.1       0.1                  1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8215.5       9464.8  11395.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  46.4        44.5      42.8                 34.1                   36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.0        79.0      75.4                 80.0                   56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 9.0        11.0      12.8                  8.6                   17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.3        43.7      41.4                 41.7                   37.2
MALE                                51.9        49.8      48.2                 54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                              41.2        38.0      34.8                 29.2                   27.5
ECONCIIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1       1.1                  1.2                    1.3
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF NOUSENOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOIDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                136.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0                 84.5                  156.2
ESTIMATED RELAT7VE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      76.0                 99.1                  334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      43.0                 61.2                  137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOWTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0                 68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weghtsd arltiretic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and ie not uniforu.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 19S9
and 1971; and for Most Recant Estiate. between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962.
may. 1981



-23 -                                                                ANNEX I
OlFNITONO07  OCOO.  55D0AT1SPage    3   of   5
Nots:   lthughtheden  ar  drwn  ootcouts.ganrely jdged  Nthetact   SOCIAnLa toe  andOeslihe   neol   loh   oe   Oa   hysyntb    o
The  eeac  grp   r  II)                the .sa . coutry grou0 of the   bI luh er n..no  sa 2) A  -toony gop etch eotefAt higher -oreg. incta- than the  onr  gtoop
oftesbsto,h             sosofr'ais  opo  00fprcc   gopeee    ideIce   tohAriaedtidofs    srhsohtoe   fsrne
sod.. Is oon).llth fofc,caco   u    enrl dad tnocl           thpsosra...o. on Indicator tsoN-a.thes eA erl ge  era onycaflIncdatlgdl                        leo
foI  oo.   sats..ekt  o                                             .chc..d.so  o  n  eloo   toyt  den.  bhnltactnchtr-w n d.ptodel     h er .eceltbtut  rai moontty  taffe
tOll, and 1979 dana.                                                                 eadloal ass. gd  idIstatoua.idiesc)ohcofrn-pncaci-
end  lgnis, orroloe,  aturl Baa     .. end bydro-   ioclo ead getheeme  aAt-Mroe    _olal  Ioa  or rIra  hoti-e andsedca  en h-Ptao1rntd
nArncnnlOntklogaso ol  aqolta:~         ItoIe oyn;  Ot 19tlar   97bcnt . I.peclatnoAd boPtnlaae  nclde  onily unde  hptota                                            .dl.  _
dana.                                                                               AdmissIon. koeh- 6-doeteIIRed1 -;Totaltusher of adlatcn  no. or dietarg
PIPTIATIlt 00th VITAl, IOATIIISTIII                                                             c"  i        l1:h:-`,   S..
Totn  Pocision.AidYea Pn-ousarLs -iAetof July        t -lkh t 1971, an  -197            di.I-tIttI
dane.l                                                                                       AvorTsashdOeewIof79Obusahold0 tdrecanre re.tl  bousefodl - totl,uran  an  rra 
dIfeeTdeinH,it AIon TfrAc areas say  afec  -oprhli   ofdaa                                n  rhet  eaP  teal.   A Iicarde  or..  lodger rayor anton. beinluddi
a~~ogooonlotea; lAhi-,P.1977, aud 107990 dae                                          bsboahl   orsaisia             hproe. i
rorulanloc Projeonitne                                             hoareesnueber of ~~~~p-Iiersn  rer root-tota l,cld uran   udrra
Tt1Projeoloc -ardneteos for- ...rtaltAoy  raoscIYrice of1 three lends se9n-              HUSNGtodprs
cetera for frtolloy rac  also bans  bras isrelsssuetog  decIninotna,ub,   tn  rte  d                          fritg  respocI n hoI.
fero olny ocooding o  tocre  level  ndfpas  feetlybienilg pafodrmadnte.i  -1,A  .l  I  ,I.g,_y'
and facci toynrsodsfor pejeotio  durcar.Adendtoianrn its
tnnuoory  ooodnln-naaan oosy nnoat  r onreOs o  roeh cos        ritro  nhol   Oral  tae  nd  etae-tosetool,eel  an  real
th   it 0rt 0seqa  onb   ao  raP.te,adaeneaanunrr-                                   noleoo  all nge  at'rh,pri-dyi _oe  as _ec-             tgs  frepctv
eeoc~~ ~~~~~~I  t   .I   :   ,                  Ith.                                      dcatosqioe--od   ou   ersnpopo.dpimr   naronin
etee hoe been reatbed.                                                          osualty cf 11 no 17 years of a go; cortIIapood ence Ioorsol  toe.generally
onl; 197,197  en  199  ana                                                Puil-earer  ati  -rniaen  an  seondaerlool nh.nleeod ile-                   o
04 ytra . od rtird  1) yeoa  od  ver  as.s....ge  o  a.-y.np00-                       orrspndng...l
yea  populactoc  for. 19f-I  19607ti..end 19ATI79
Oruoi-o mochOcefnnelituhe     lt-a  goth.. tatna oforenpot CftltPT
athbio  t o   97-0   90-1   o  197-7.                                                      assenger tasEe-1      nan   oulco)-Paseeortnpoeo
CrudeOsat Rune(rerboucndl -donul deths. po  hsreo  aidyea                         Raio R       -enrefetoued-ooalol-11tye   fR.cirr foedo
popul      ...con; 19th . 17,an   99daa                                                 radtcsnognrl  ulcpe   hue-    fppoeOn  sue  or-ti
trues Reeoduonto  oane-lrregeouthr of dauunarsa waao wil bone. inlcoedcent  inp ........s-end in -por  obenregotre noo nO  adn
0010  rtesh     aalyftnynraaae  ending0 In it-hO,  10,  nd  979tmon  countries  ablihe  .tecn..                                        tl   .I-          dloP-..
Pnr   laocoAoooa  ara  tosna)-ana  ahrdfocpoe                                           T R ...nsfe  tosn iousoo)     )eCePtnedefo  brodat-
nO. hir..trldnceudraspcso   ainlrcl   lnin   osn.                                           gnrlptl   e  tToo.ndpopinton;-nnPPdt ond iPtea  TneseI
Itilyaois-acaleret  faridnan)   reen.e  farla                                                enuoteedi    sssneeeitrcocth.                       I       Ioa   lefet
PO   lYl  1960 NITIlOIl.  b_tol be  dat..y" ife Itapersa  leasttl                                                                     four ;tieeeaeeelu.       -t
nra ore sooluded).  cgfrefec  prduco ofoth countr Seef hosed ntAOPIECE
natona  anreg  prdueprcoibt;91-)  190(u197   oa 5oalLbrPre  tosn.  -                                                               d-ooucalrtnte  Iot o ln,  "nclluddn
af- oeecmtdb  A   en  o   hsooia   -efrrra   co-fso5a                                             nnaso   te  labor0 -1force  ONbid 197  end, 199dae
and eo dtaonhu Ior o  po urnbn   n   loIgIIprentnrsea                                 adeetii            aeanndNUMTONt goats lt orcn 1a _ tO l tuca  iao  fote  09J,)
bubodln;1961-h,170, an 190-77 dae.17!                                                 ad199-      ao
ye lrtattoo  , ,00 109of r.....  sspa   aI-Poet   coeoo   ercpn                             ancOatrnt  ooonl-ttl ale, and fs                              -plePrOipno   or
not supy1  of foodper lay.Non suppy of foo   Oc hefl-daabne is-,.               toirye      eseecMoo          reh toai-   na,  n b(rnelobor forte. asd
rusorotnc,of01c    17 dcaec shudb   vea    rtt.fsngo-flectiog ee-ooerchi                                                     f  h  pplntr   nditonc  nt
orloareloceotacch de ofliLaeo   ttah.ontordreusotfseatepeer   treannnisooe-
_ ondoaD-  pRnelna  oan f   o th.o ma1,prpad.b Af indleThyd.                                OcnmcTronet     Rto      atoo  pouatt o'e.                t  n iro   oe
Onrld Pol,,   ho6ey; 1970-60  171 ad.   197daa;n hsrra                                                                                    'In ro
Percetnatrnir. au-Alymoo enlroa        f od-ghtlee                                        b dyro.e. arytIon motdo
rledfousiml aolplee  in-neao peri. day  1961-b,  1071 en 977 daa.nc    IlTOdlo
rytna data forinod foon life onhloe; 1967. 1977 sond 1979~A d -fo.ot hufstldi..    Ibdllll
Ofulto                                                                          0071077 Toatur 0 lOo~~~~~ A-.  .b.rf   lp.l  - t i -..nt 11:.i
LietocY     otteno  oeca           eagnIe            f mare   p of . life reeacn-          The ftligetbrisoevryayoOe"                        esrnfrom    nos
* an-itch  1910  1970 and- 1979,  doca.                                     odd Ishold  outrnoe   ihtnfdo lccOc
.fuo   ro hcldcybRate  ten tto15n44 Y- yca  duh  of urfnrhcct under_ oeyor  tsleto  OeIun   Pooc   noobnn 11pncot)    ru   n   ua
of ag  per  bouaad lie birh..                                       Asolut  ponrny mose l'sl  n tho  Oncor Ocol hoo obth a nnion
Aocaaroa  r atn   oocet o  rcoanoo-nru.  rbn, ndrual- tt0 ~       corilonll  ooqso  drcplu  rcoot   ncg..ro.e..Ittn
herofpepT  (onal   ro,alrri   ihrsoalatanef                                                affold-ln-d.       4-ld
oneapl Oclusnnao    ofcosDso   tonnlhtocunmond                                                taAHtdOsolePnto    roeLno  lprcat)yohn  n   ua 
nanereutbIechal for  cnetdtreoed    aroe -did sanitr feedll   a                              coral rrlanine     . pntny Oncree  -ledne g de t- o  of. enerane proiapoc
penatae   foenraeotopy.enn. OI                         Inaarnpbt
fo yr..o.sadpn boeatnd no-dt ear   ha  I       Ynatrs on     bou-e.ra   be           prsonl. rtum.frecuty                 mntnOt  ete   re eue
1,   Id If   "bi.  ld                              Id~~~~~~~~onlaihodunet  fehoir  ot  flilg  oura
_osdeodn htdnoh:        rasnbe  tes  ftathue   I   ualeeeiciatdPrheicbeo    bsltIlneyinoeLee  cetr)d    ra
eeaeonsbleucceasrou -d-iply tht th  fosvlroreeseo ..- t        a boanebol
-ight.;  961-65,1970. ..  I;79 dl..         and oo.rsPl   -(0uas - PnrnEofpp la-tn -)1ha  anIrrl)co  r  "bolt
don non bate t  spocdudooprtyrrctoone pant  f do tay In feChtcg. ohs.         p00           Il r'.0           t    Ii~h"- 
and . n ...-.to  by..  r-o       yseso  ole ueey of cit doniuylce ardlI -    allele.                     --t-            f    % robroo    nonoonl  and0 170tnn-on 199doprct
layo   . intolalune   idian- -                                                                               )                                      lb,  _t:it.
tiaos   uolitrd  rot a6tdpoce  echooi- uat unlinertt  level.H~ H,  .Il.d  .   .p-t..~ tt1~b-t                                                                I 9
h..       dInonoenburir  Person 19opuo1977 dirtIed by9nuber o  pracict
saleenf-n lygnaluontnure    yEoccl  oud           eon   eneOstann_o_orase.d  eme    .li~p.i



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                              Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amount
(million US$ at      Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)          Annual Growth Rates (2)
current prices)               (at current prices)               (at constant 1970 prices)
1980                            1980                      1978        1979       1980
1/
Gross Domestic Product-           5,948.0                           100.0                    -5.3         0.3        2.4
(GDP Commercialized)             (4,749.7)                          -                       (-6.3)       (0.2)      (2.3)
Agriculture                     1,760.4                            29.6                      0.0        3.1        2.3
Industry                        1,408.7                           23.7                     -8.6        -6.4        4.3
Services                        2,563.4                           43.1                     -5.1         4.7        4.5
Consumption                       4,456.5                            74.9                   -12.02,      -3.2        3.9
Gross Investment                  1,241.5                            20.9                   -52.0-       43.5       37.2
Exports of GNFS                   2,154.4                            36.2                    27.0       -17.0        2.7
Imports of GNFS                   1,904.4                            32.0                   -21.8        -6.7       -5.1
Gross national savings            1,502.0                            25.3                      8.7         6.0       0
PUBLIC FINANCE3/ (Central Government)                   (million 9)                         X of GDP
A c t u a 1                    (at market prices)
1977         1978          1979            1977        1979
Current revenues                              731.0       1,930.0       3,738.6          13.3        22.4
Current expenditures                        1,145.2       2,171.0       3,456.5          20.9        20.8
Current deficit                              -414.2        -241.0         282.1          -7.6         1.7
Capital expenditures                          113.8         129.0         246.4           2.1         1.5
Overall deficit                              -528.0        -370.0         35.7           -9.6         0.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                   1978             1979                1980
(million 9 outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                     1,854.5          2,084.9             3,367.3
Ban. Credit to Public Sector                              1,578.3          2,062.2             2,329.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               641.0            878.7            1,014.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money (as % of GDP - market prices)          33.8             18.8                20.2
Consumer Price Index (1975 = l00)4/                         453.4            912.7             1,339.0
Annual percentage changes in
Consumer Price Index                                       48.5            101.3                46.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                 49.6             30.7                13.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                20.1             37.1                15.4
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/     At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
2/     Figures for 1977/78 are inconsistent with other trends in the
economy and should be used and interpreted with caution.
3/     Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures
financed by foreign sources.
4/     Consumer price index for the city of Kinshasa.
February 22, 1982



ANNEX I
-25 -                           Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                  1978         1979        1980
(million US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                      1,665.0       1,914.6    2,087.1
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,575.4        1,834.0    1,953.6
Imports of goods and services                      1,786.6       1,967.3    2,219.9
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.                   1,024.6        1,106.9    1,201.3
Net transfers                                         38.8          67.6       133.3
Current Account Balance                              -82.8          14.9         0.5
Public Capital (net)                                 122.7         -49.6        23.8
Private Capital and
errors and omissions                             -369.4         -220.4      -278.5
SDR Allocation                                         -            20.4        20.6
Other Financing!./                                   405.0         297.2       265.5
Net international reserves t- * increase)            -75.5         -62.5       -31.9
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                           Z 1.00 * SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                         Z 1.00 = SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981                           g 1.00 =SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                       Z 1.00 =SDR 0.158
Average exchange rates
1978                                                    US$ 1.00 =B 0.836
1979                                                    US$ 1.00 =, 1.729
1980                                                    US$ 1.00 =Z 2.800
1981                                                    US$ 1.00 =B 5.407
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1980)            million US$      x
Minerals and Petroleum                  1,536.6      78.7
Others                                    417.0      21.3
Total                                 1,953.6    100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, June 30, 19812/                      (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                          4,175.1
Non-Guaranteed                                           350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                          4,525.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980-                                _
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                             16.1
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                3.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING                        US$ million
(As of March 31, 1982)                  IBRD    IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                84.18    192.37
Undisbursed                             e        139.93
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed         84.18    332.30
1/ Includes payments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency
assistance, and profit on gold sales.
2/ These figures show the position as at June 30, 1981 after
account is taken of the estimated effect of the Paris Club
Agreement of July 1981.
3/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor
services. Represents actual payments.
February 22, 1982



- 26 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1982)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                     Amount in US$ million
Number      Year       Borrower                   Bank         IDA _/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport       91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                         100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                   119.50      0.79 3/
571       1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II               26.00       1.80
624       1976       ZAIRE       Education II                21.00       9.24
660       1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                  8.00      3.61
697       1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                 8.00      3.05
710       1978       ZAIRE       Fourth DFC                  10.00        .38
796       1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                     9.00       8.37
902       1979       ZAIRE       Railways                    20.00      19.23
916       1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                  26.00      14.31
998       1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50      16.01
1040       1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize           11.00       9.94
1089       1981       ZAIRE       Kwilu Ngongo Sugar          26.40      24.30
1152 4/    1982       ZAIRE       Kwango-Kwilu                 2.90       2.90
Technical Assistance
1180 5/    1982       ZAIRE       ONATRA Modernization        26.00       26.00
Total (less cancellations):                      191.58       332.3       139.93
- of which has been repaid                     110.95         0.47
Total now outstanding:                          80.63       332.3       139.93
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, and Credit 272-CK, originally
US$6.5 million, have closed with undisbursed balances of US$80,000 and
about US$480,000 respectively which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has
several withdrawal applications pending which, when paid, will leave a
balance of about US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed July 23, 1981, but is not yet effective.
5/ This credit was signed March 10, 1982, but is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-27-                 Page 2 of 7
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                80.63      324.83
Total Undisbursed:                                0.0                 149.93
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                             Type of        Amount in US$ Millions
Year       Obligor                Business       Loan  Equity   Total
1970        Societe Financiere de
Developpement(SOFIDE)   DFC            -      0.76    0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company  Oil Company  2.50   -          2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company Oil Company  1.61   -          1.61
Total gross commitments                4.11  0.76    4.87
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                              0.83   -       0.83
Held by IFC                            3.28  0.76    4.04
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                             Page 3 of 7
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's financial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. Overall
project execution is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit is expected to
close as scheduled.
Credit 624-ZR          Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit
of December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of construction and equipment for five new
rural primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because of
implementation delays and exceedingly high inflation, the total cost of the
project substantially exceeds available funds. Fellowships training of teachers
and several preinvestment studies have been successfully carried out. The
ability of the Project Unit to implement the remaining components or a revised
project is, being assessed and a decision on utilization of the remaining credit
balance will be made before the closing date.
Credit 660-ZR          Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been very slow   Dm the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution o: JNAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978.  C ton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices were doubled for the purchases of the campaign which began in
December 1981. The sale of textile stocks has stagnated, however, owing to a
dramatic increase in the import of used clothing. The Government is exploring
appropriate measures to reduce the impact of the sales decline which has created
a severe liquidity problem for the cotton companies. These measures will form
part of a program of a proposed Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project.



ANNEX II
-29-                           Page 4 of 7
Credit 697-ZR          Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs. Project start up suffered from delays in the provision
of counterpart funds, supply shortages due to deterioration of the
Kisangani-Bunia road and lack of foreign exchange to import the necessary
commodities, insufficient support from central services in Kinshasa, and delays
in setting up of the training program financed by German aid. Constraints
remain the very high costs in the project area, high rates of inflation, the low
prices for beef, late receipt of government counterpart funds, and the so far
unresolved problem of incomplete exchange of bank notes in December 1979. The
ranch component has not yet started and it is envisaged to delete it. Despite
the constraints and the delayed start up remarkable results have been achieved.
They include;(i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock
extension serice; (ii) the implementation of a training program for extension
officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock
producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv)
vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the
project's objective); (v) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets. Future emphasis in the subsector
should be placed on expansion of marketing.
Credit 710-ZR         Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977.  SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank.  In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key



AiNEX II
- 30 -                              Page 5 of 7
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened three regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects.  The credit will close at end 1982 as scheduled.
Credit 796-ZR           Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and training of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financ'ng plans were revised.  Of the remailaing companies, -ne
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a na- .
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills.  The second company has plaze2.
equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting and 3iJ
mill rehabilitation program.
Credit 902-ZR           Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes trach rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls which prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. Technical progress of Droject implementation has been
satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
-31 -
Credit 916-ZR          Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of
June 14, 1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by
the EEC Special Action Fund and the Saudi Fund
for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness. Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/
rehabilitation program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully
operational. Decentralized maintenance operations are being carried out
effectively in Bas Zaire and Bandundu and are serving as models for other
areas. A fifth project designed to consolidate maintenance/rehabilitation
activities and operations during 1983-85 has been appraised.
Credit 998-ZR          Fifth DFC; US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
As of March 31, 1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component. SOFIDE has also committed funds in
excess of US$1.5 million for the working capital component and these are being
reviewed. Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate rapidly in the
latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval of sub-projects
and the placement of orders.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing -
sector; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical,
assistance in support of the above activities. Project implementation is
proceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems.



ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 7
- 32 -
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project include (i) rehabilitation and extension of an existing
plantation, including provision of equipment for land preparation, cultivation
and harvesting; (ii) rehabilitation of transport infrastructure, and provision
of equipment for sugar cane transport and track maintenance; (iii) civil works
for the rehabilitation and expansion of processing facilities and construction
of offices and staff housing; (iv) design and implementation of an applied
research program on sugarcane; (v) purchase and installation of a data
processing and management information system; (vi) staff training; (vii) pilot
projects to promote food crop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily, and procurement is well advanced. Foreign exchange allocations
to the Compagnie Sucriere (implementing agency) for operation and maintenance
have been below the agreed level; Government has been informed and has indicated
that remedial action will be taken promptly.
Credit 1152-ZR         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Effective Date
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project: US$26.0 million
Credit of March 10, 1982; Effective Date:
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The Credit is not yet effective.



- 33 -                       ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Identification:                   March 1980
(b)    Project Preparation Agency:       CSCo
(c)    Appraisal Mission:                November/December 1980
(d)    Negotiations:                     March 28-31, 1982
(e)    Target Effectiveness:             September 1982
Section II: Special Project Implementation Procedures
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The Government would at all times keep the position of
general Manager/President of the Board of CSCo as well as
the three directors positions all filled with qualified
and experienced personnel (para. 51);
(ii) The working capital needs of the three cotton companies would
be regularly reviewed by the shareholders and the amount of
cash working capital be kept at or above a level corresponding
to four months of fixed operating costs at all times (para. 54);
(iii) Sufficient foreign exchange would be made available during
Project Implementation to enable the cotton companies to
carry on their operations efficiently (para. 54);
(iv) The Government would continue to conduct semi-annual reviews
of minimum producer prices and would consult with IDA on
appropriate price levels before June 1 and December 1, of each
year (para. 57).






I BR D 15029
EM AA
t   t          'CA-tw-                                                                             S   D'A N'
NORTH
PPK                                                BAS UELE A---
HAUT-UELE
REPUBL C.
ZAIRE
OF                                               COTONZAIRE
MONGikLA
BANGI                                                             HAUT,  Al
I  RI
SOTEXCO                                 't-',
N-Ni.
HAUT  ZAIRE
EQU                                       ANGAW
R' PL                                                                                                SANG.
jtEQUATEUR
Lb-
Nopn -
C
K I V U
T HUAPA
N,
LA COTONNIERE
FUTURE AREAOF                                                     vy
RVEN ON                                                                       AWANDA
Al-NDOMBE
SA                                                vu u'
Su
ANI
COTOIERE
K6. 41
KWII.-                      0
I/ 001
z                                             K A S
R                     u                                                                                                           CIRI
LEMI
KWAN                                                           AY[    IIND
rANZ ANI A
D A                        G.A NY W A
UAI
HAO         LOMAM                  f
ml                                                                                    ,p                      IA
10
J   Lu) IA                               HABA
HAUT-SHA
ARE-AS OF INTERAM
FWR             OTTON,                                                                                                                  iAMBtA
ATIAN71C
n
IOCEA Al                                                                            J
In -fhlvl!o
J
17-a   I I
g.






IBRD1503OR
2'2'                                      24-                                                                                                                                                         FeRSUARY
z :A
CW Efi: AND:
-2-
AREAS: OF COTTON FROOUCtION: AND
I v                 R  E  G  I 0   N                                           LOCATION$ OF,01NNE IES
w
11    I  I A  k I
0                                 G"les, "of funottotimg t-ut
u                                       in u                                                                                                           co"tfod
Lf,                                                                                                                                                           0
N   A                                                                           .......... Foute &ea boun
k.-                            /o,-                                                                                                           ddrj  
lEVrAdRjC0 (tQTONEST),
-b-b.
Arfo bovAdorils         41-
<<,               0                                          0 K-k.--b-o                            0
0,                                                                                                                                                     ce
41
0
NIA,                                                                                                      LAKE
Re iongl houndqria.
sci bo                                                                                                                                                       Su"gional boundaries
A          A
VVIAIVKXl
T,h-
-0
ue                                                                                                                                                                                            ZANI
I-V                                     :                                                                                     A
0                                                                           NGANYI
M.h 6..                                                                                      &
=0ga                                                                                                                                             lemie
K.b.1
/V V
mb.i,  -y' Koloinda
K.-b.                                                                           K W,                                                                                                20    40,   60    IQ    W:
j                                        bB'd'       o-d.
I  imbvi                                  gid K....d.                                                       0 -1.
BUDA14
2CAN
u z
r
K.1                                                                                                                                                         17
B  rA              R   E              -0    -N                                           Z A I K c I          I=
M.-
L
T
A   N i-    L A                                                                                                                                                                                         AriA
ANGOL
..b. Nku
Ile






IBRD 15031R
fu     24-           ~,'2'                                                              n           9                                                                                                           FEBRUIARY 1981
CENTRAL                         A F RI CA"N!'                         E PIUSL I C                                                                                                                        ZA,I R E
-~~~~~~~ ~~~SOTEXCO
S    U    D    A           N             ~~~AREAS OF COTTON PRODUCTION AND
Ad.o,n0                          -u                                                                                                                         LOCATIONS OF GINNERIES
N                                                                                                                  IJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inneries,no functioningbu
Si,               si~~~~   A s-GARAMBA                                                                                                                                                     in operational condition
~~~~~~~~  1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0)    Ginneries, not oPerationot
Anon  toond'  \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~R                                                  ,ne_                   ---  SOTEXCO area boundary
(in/a                                a-e,t                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                  - - ~~~~~~~dRondo of generot importance
fond,                                      nnorD&                            'Pa-                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -r ~~~~~ Roads of local importance
Molennovo ~~~>rA4J  39 Arnodi  L:cinte   ~~~~~"~a-              focun         ~      ~      ~            -a--a--.-'- ~Railroads
fu Hu  i A_         I        j           - IF        ,                              Stob-regionot boundaries
-n                                                                                                                                               -   -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~linternotionpi bountdaris
Iv   -                   ,~UGANDA
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     M t-e                                                                     O      O    6             6
r                                                                                                                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_  jE 2tt
-Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
--''-  -----IOMTES                                                          0   0   0KE o         No 40  e
VIR-                                         _     _ _     _ __N_
874    1/   8  -  Z A /2[                                                            ,J\tlsuoI                       ThO   0*0 060          22    40    60    tO   ITO~~~~~ON
T H E  MAIKO~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WrdRna e2oeaai a O u,a,n,
UGANDA        OCEAN ~         CNTALAFICN                   N
a-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI



