IT NUMBER 1264 ZR
DOCGUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE COTONNIERE ET AGRICOLE DE L'EST ZAIROIS
and
SOCIETE COTONNIERE ET AGRICOLE DU KASAI ET MANIEMA
and
SOCIETE TEXTILE, COTONNIERE ET AGRICOLE
DU HAUT-ZAIRE
Dated                             , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1264 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                 , 1982, among
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOClATION  (hereinafter called   the
Association) and SOCIETE COTONNIERE ET AGRICOLE DE L'EST ZAIROIS
(ESTAGRICO) and SOCIETE COTONNIERE ET AGIRICOLE DU KASAI ET MANIEMA
(LA COTONNIERE) and SOCIETE TEXTILE, COTONNIERE ET AGRICOLE DU
HAUT-ZAIRE (SOTEXCO) (hereinafter collectively called the Cotton
Companies).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zaire (hereinafter called the
Borrower or Zaire) and the Association, the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 9,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Cotton Companies agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into
between the Borrower and each of the Cotton Companies, part of the-
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to the Cotton Companies on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Cotton Companies, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the -arties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A, B and C of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ESTAGRICO, LA COTONNIERE and SOTEXCO shall
carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project, respectively, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, commercial, economic, administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
(b) The Cotton Companies shall jointly enter into the
arrangements with CSCo referred to in Section 3.01 (a)(ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Section 3.01
(a) (ii) of, and of Schedule 3 to, the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
Section 2.03. (a) Each of the Cotton Companies undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the part of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the company
concerned to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each of
the Cotton Companies shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for its Part of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Cotton Companies shall, within the
framework of the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (ii)
of the Development Credit Agreement, cause to be furnished to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Parts A through C of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) Each of the Cotton Companies: (i) shall maintain records
and ptocedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of its


﻿-3-
Part of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services for such
Part of the Project financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose their use in said Part of the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in its
Part of the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) in order to assist CSCo in fulfilling its
obligations under Section 3.05 (d) of the Development Credit
Agreement, shall furnish to CSCo at regular intervals all such
information as CSCo shall reasonably request concerning Parts A
through C of the Project, their cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditures of such
proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, the Cotton
Companies shall jointly assist CSCo in preparing the report
referred to in Section 3.05 (e) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
(d) Each of the Cotton Companies shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to examine all its plants, installations,,
sites, works, buildings, property a   equipment and any relevant
records and documents.
Section 2.05. Each of the Cotton Companies shall duly perform
all its obligations under the pertinent Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, none of the
Cotton Companies shall take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provisions thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) Each of the Cotton Companies shall, at its
own initiative or at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of its Part
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and the pertinent Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Each of the Cotton Companies shall inform promptly the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of its Part of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by the company concerned of its obligations under this Agreement
and the pertinent Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Cotton Companies
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Cotton Companies shall at all
times carry on its operations, manage its affairs, plan the future
development of its business and maintain its financial position in
accordance with appropriate agricultural, commercial, economic,
financial, administrative and engineering practices, and under an
experienced and qualified management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section, each of the Cotton Companies shall operate and
maintain its plants, equipment, properties and facilities, and
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with appropriate agricultural and management practices.
Section 3.02. Each of the Cotton Companies shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, none of the Cotton Companies shall sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property and assets except
in the ordinary course of business.
Section 3.04. Each of the Cotton Companies shall at all times
take all steps necessary to maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry on its operations (including its functions with
respect to the execution of its Part of the Project) and shall
take all steps necessary to acquire and to retain such land,
interests in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such concessions, licenses, consents, franchises or other
rights, as may be necessary or useful for the conduct of its
business and the execution and operation of its Part of the
Project.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Each of the Cotton Companies shall maintain
separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its oper-
ations, resources and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) Each of the Cotton Companies shall: (i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of the company concerned and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(b) In order to assist ESTAGRICO, LA COTONNIERE and SOTEXCO
in carrying out Parts A (f), B (f) and C (f) of the Project,
respectively, each of the Cotton Companies shall, by April 30,
1983 (or such other date as the Association may agree), employ
auditors whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association
in accordance with the principles and procedures described in the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 4.03 (a) Each of the Cotton Companies: (i) shall
review regularly with its shareholders its cash working capital
requirements; and (ii) shall take all steps necessary to ensure
that at all times the amount of its cash working capital shall be
at least equal to its estimated fixed operating costs for the
following four-month period.
(b) For purposes of this Section:


﻿-6-
(i)  "cash working capital" means cash, accounts receiv-
able due within 12 months, marketable securities,
unused lines of credit (excluding lines of credit
for the financing of extension services, road
maintenance and seed cotton purchases, and costs
directly related to seed cotton marketing and
ginning activities) and all other assets which
could, in the ordinary course of business, be
converted into a cash within 12 months; and
(ii) "fixed operating costs" means all operating costs
including interest on, and principal repayment of,
debt with maturity exceeding 12 months but exclud-
ing depreciation, costs incurred for extension
services, road maintenance and seed cotton pur-
chases, and costs directly related to seed cotton
marketing and ginning activities.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of the Cotton Companies thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Cotton Companies of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ESTAGRICO
Societ6 Cotonniere et Agricole
de VEst Zairois
B. P. 8331
Kinshasa
Telex:
21436 FILKIN-ZR


﻿-8-
For LA COTONNIERE
Soci6tf Cotonnigre et Agricole
du Kasai et Maniema
B. P. 1675
Kinshasa
Cable address:                     Telex:
LA COTONNIERE                     21194 CLT-ZR
Kinshasa
For STEXCO
Socifte Textile, Cotonniare
et Agricole du Haut-Zaire
B. P. 14897
Kinshasa
Cable address:                     Telex:
c/o SOTEXKI                       21453
Kinshasa                          Kinshasa
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ESTAGRICO, LA COTONNIERE and SOTEXCO
may be taken or executed by the Administrateur D616gu6 or such
other person or persons as ESTAGRICO, LA COTONNIERE and SOTEXCO
shall designate in writing, and ESTAGRICO, LA COTONNIERE and
SOTEXCO shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                          k
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOCIETE COTONNIERE ET AGRICOLE DE L'EST ZAIROIS
By       Is
Authorized Representative
SOCIETE COTONNIERE ET AGRICOLE DU KASAI
ET MANIEMA
By
AuthorAzed Representative
SOCIETE TEXTILE, COTONNIERE ET AGRICOLE DU
HAUT-ZAIRE
By
1       Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of )"
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


