Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repet No. P-3939-1-I
REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BALIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN ANY AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt248 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT
February 5, 1985
lTab doeument h  a resticted distnbot. ad MY be md by recpiet oly in the perfrnmance Of
taen .ulkil dues is .ognl mu no odewise be dicold wifth   Wodd Bak atoriu    i



CURRNC  KODIVALENTS
(As of February 4, 1985)
US$1.00          Rs 12.75
Rs 1.00         US 0.78
Rs 1 million    US 78,000
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rsl2.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BCCL    -       Bharat Coking Coal Limited
CCL     -       Central Coalfields Limited
CIL     -       Coal India Li-ited
CHPDI  -        Central Mine Planning and Design Institute
GOI     -       Government of India
ICB     -       International Competitive Bidding
IISCO   -       Indian Iron and Steel Company
ODA     -       Overseas Development Administration
SAl!.   -       Steel Authority of India Limited
SCL     -       Singareni Collieries Limited



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:            Coal India Limited (CIL).
Amount:                 USS248 million.
Terms:                  Repayment over 20 years, including five years- grace
at the Ba-k-s standard variable interest rate.
On-lendina Terms:       GOI to CIL for a period of 15 years, including five
years- grace, at an effective interest rate of not
less than 13.25Z per annum. CIL to Bharat Coking
Coal Limited (BCCL) for a period of 15 years,
including five years of grace, at an effective
interest rate of not less than 13.25% per annum.
Proiect DescriDtion:    The objective of the project is to increase the supply
of coking coal to the Indian steel sector. It
will also improve the average quality of coking
coal supplies and thus contribute to greater
efficiency in the use of indigenous energy
resources. The project consists of the develop-
ment of one open-pit mine at Jharia and one under-
ground mine at Pootkie-Bulliary (with design
capacities of 2.5 and 3.0 million tons of raw coal
per annum, respectively), two coal vasheries, and
other associated facilities in the Jharia coal-
field in the State of Bihar. The project will
also support institutional development in the
areas of underground mine design and operating
practices, shaft sinking and sand transportation,
as well as project management. Furtbermore, it
will address the sectoral issue of coal quality
and facilitate continuation of a dialogue on coal
transportation and distribution, producer-consumer
linkages, and investment planning. The project
faces minimal technical risks and a possible
financial risk is mitigated by GOI's commitment to
a pricing policy which ensures the continued
viability of CIL.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization-



Estimated Costs:
USS millions
local        Foreeian         Total
Equipment and Spares                   77.3         132.8            215.5
Land and Civil Works                   47.7           2.5             50.2
Washery                                76.2          31.8            108.0
Engineering and Training                5.7            -               5.7
Pre-operating Expenditure               9.0           0.6              9.6
Technical Assistance                     -            2.0              2.0
Duties and Taxes                       94.5             -             94.5
Base Cost                           310.4         175.1            485.5
Physical Contingencies                 24.2          10.4             34.6
Price Escalation                      100.2          58.1            158.3
Working Capital                        10.5            1.i            11.6
Total Project Cost                  445.3         244.7            690.0
Interest During Construction            6.0            -               6.0
Front-end Fee on IBRD Loan               -              -
Total Financing Required            451.3         244.7            696.0
=====_
Financing Plan:
Equity
Government of India          ,    215.8            -             215.8
CIL Cash Generation               132.2            -             13i.2
Total Equity                    348.0            -             348.0
Long-Term Debt
Government of India                85.8             -             85.8
IBRD                               17.5         230.5            248.0
U.K. (ODA)                           -           14.2             14.2
Total Debt                      103.3         244.7            348.0
Total Financing                     451.3         244.7            696.0



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:                   USS million
FY86  FY87  FY8s  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92
Annual                     0.6  54.6  53.6  71.8  22.4  36.2   9.4
Cumulative                 0.6  55.2 108.8 180.0 202.4 238.6 248.0
Rate of Return: About 21%.
Appraisal Report: No. 5336-IN, dated February 7, 1985.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



INTERNATIONAL BANR FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$248.0 million, to accelerate the expan-
sion of coking coal production by developing a large scale open-pit and under-
ground mines to feed steel plants. Amortization would be over 20 years,
including five years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government of India (GOI) would onlend the proceeds of the proposed loan to
Coal India Limited (CIL) for 15 years, including five years of grace at an
effective interest rate of not less than 13.25% per annum. CIL would make
available the proceeds of the proposed loan to Bharat Coking Coal (BCCL) for 15
years, including five years of grace, at an effective interest rate of not less
than 13.25Z per annum. GOI would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1!
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2% since 1950151 - has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in CDP (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 2O% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
_ising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7% in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP to 24.82 in 1983/84. Foreign savings
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Bombay Urban Development Project (No.P-3920-IN),
dated January 7, 1984.



-2-
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20Z was reached during the
early 19609. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8X of investment.
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per carita
terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging below 1% for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3X of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1Z.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution.  The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India-s exports grew on average about 7.3Z per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.3Z, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In
1979180, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5Z per annum - substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981182 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18 in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment will be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment



-3-
without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving infla-
tionary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981182, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP groving by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than 15Z and 5.5%, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10Z, 9.6Z and 12.5Z, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 4Z, brought down the GDP
grovth rate to 1.8%, aud put further strains on the already difficult balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
othervise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5Z to 7%
with agricultural production growth in the 92-10: range and industrial growth
of 4.5%. The major factors contributing to the good economic performance
during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs ard continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by 1OZ-12Z over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6Z per annum--sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.    Basic infrastructure services bad a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the comissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants.
As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improxe performance in the power sector, the Government recently
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5% in
1983/84, reflecting sluggisb demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5%
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined witb stocks already avail-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand



-4-
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that Irlia maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1% of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6Z of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
maintain investment at about 25Z of GDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises vhich would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.3Z of
GDP to 1.5%-1.8X, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burdan.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses trom 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.2% while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1963/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lover net import bill for petrcleum, whicb dropped from US$6.7 billion in



-5-
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil develop-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (INF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This laiger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30%
higher than in the period 1975-80--a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth



-6-
Plan expenditure targets, however, vill not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector will fall shor' of the financing requirements of
planned public investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10% higher and public investment about 20X lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments.  The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80% to 902 of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation ratee have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixtb Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offLake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conser-ation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
mene of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-



-7-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rether than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms.  Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.0X per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0X per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean E doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2X per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23% to over 35Z by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural D_,velopment Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent



-8-
difficulties in implementing poverty progrmas in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 development
credits to India totalling US$6,526 million and US$12,268 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million has been
repaid, and USS6,207 million was still undisbursed as of September, 30, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1984 totalled USS171 million, representing a decrease of about
40 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, ItFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$223
million, of which USS34 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and
US$34 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$98 million, US$91 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A sumary statement of IFC disbursements
as of September 30, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country-s development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructu-re bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects.  The Bank Grcup has
also provided financing fcr a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant and consonant with
Government priorities as reflected in the Sixth Plan. Continuation of the
Bank's Group current prior-.ties can be strongly justified on the basis of the
approach that is being taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan.
First, continued support of GOI's agricultural program is warranted. While
India has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will
have to be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and
to contribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, we will continue
our support to irrigation, fertilizer production and d:stribution, and agricul-
tural extensioa and credit. Second, the review of performance under the Sixth
Plan confirms the high priority that should continue to be given to the expan-
sion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the
development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Accordingly, the Bank
will continue to support the development of the energy, transport and telecom-
munications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in
both agricultural and industrial sectors. Third, support of urban development
and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor must also continue in



-9-
light of the grovth in population which, despite successes in lowering birth
and death rates, still increases by about 16 million each year. Finally, the
major departure from ou_ previous st-ategr vii1 be a substantial increase in
the Bank's assistance to India-s industrial development substantially aimed at
supporting GOI-s efforts in promoting greater efficiency and faster development
of the industrial sector.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid comunity, Inlis successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the rirst four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past vas provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in pro -ctive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings.
f-odgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic grovth and improvement in the balance of
payments.  Despite recent setbacks, India-s external payments position is stiji
manageable. The ratio of India-s debt service to the level of its total cur-
rent account was about 12.9% in 1983184. Orer the next several years this
ratio is projected to rise to around 20% and remain around that level through
1995/96. As of September 30, 1984, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank
totalled US$5,176 million, of which US$2,713 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$2,463 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitmeLts, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 622, 33% and 37Z, respectively, in 1983/84.
On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$9.6 billion or 36% (IDA-s US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). In
1983/84, about 19.0Z of India-s total debt service payments were to the Bank
Grour.



-10-
PART III - THE COAL SECTOR
Background
29.       Coal is the most important source of commercial energy in India.
Total resources are estimated at 127 billion tons, of which about 80% are
thermal coals used primarily for heat and steam generation. The remaining
resources are coking coals which are used in the Indian steel industry.
Although the quality of India's reserves of both thermal and coking coals
varies wideLy, reserves ox better grades are limited and are in short
supply. Coking coal reserves account for nearly half (12 billion tons) of
the proven coal reserves, which total about 26 billion tons.
30.       Coal production reached 139 million tons in 1983/84, of which
79Z was thermal coal and the balance (29 million tons) coking coal.
Production stagnated during the mid- to late- 1970s. For the last five
years, coal production has risen at an average amnual rate of nearly 7Z.
This has been due to more effective management, particularly with respect
to project implementation, as well as to improved power supplies. Most
important, the first larger-scale open-pit mines (2-10 million tons per
year) started production during this period, which helped increase the
contribution of open-pit mines from 35Z in 1979/80 to nearly 50% in recent
months. The shorter construction period of open-pit mines (normally 4-6
years) compared with underground mines (5-10 years) and their larger
capacities have contributed to the expansion of the coal industry.
31.       In 1975, India completed the nationalization of most of its coal
mines and consolidated operations under a holding company, Coal India
Limited (CIL), which presently accounts for close to 90% of India's coal
production. The other producers are Singareni Collieries Limited (SCL),
which is owned by the Central Government and the Government of Andhra
Pradesh, and captive coking coal mines of the privately-owned Tata Iron
and Steel Company and the Government-owned Indian Iron and Steel Company
(IISCO). In addition, the Government-owned Neyveli Lignite Corporation
Limited operates lignite mines in Tamil Nadu.
The Market for Coking Coal
32.       Coal is a key commodity for the future economic and industrial
growth of India. The industrial sector consumes about 48% of domestic
production, of which the steel industry consumes 18%. Coal-fired power
generation represents a further 42% of coal use in India. Total coal
consumption is projected to grow at 8.3% per annum, to about 220 million
tons ver year (tpy) by 1989/90. It is predicted that power sector demand
for coal will grow most rapidly, and that it will account for 50% of total
consumption by that year. The share of industry will decline rlightly (to



-11-
about 44%), but steel industry consumption of coking coals will reach
nearly 20Z of total consumption. The Government's investment strategy
calls for most of the requirements to be met from increases in domestic
coal production, in particular from CIL. A review of the status of
preparation and implementation of major projects in CIL's investment
program indicates that the production increase of about 70 million tpy
between 1983(84 and 1989/90 is feasible, providing CIL continues to
improve its implementation capabilities.
33.       The demand for coking coal is determined by the production of
hot metal in the steel industry. In 1983/84, steel plants produced 9.1
million tons of hot metal, and production is expected to increase to 14.7
million tons in 1989/90. Before coking coal extracted from mines can be
used by the the steel industry, however, it needs to be washed in order to
reduce the ash content and to remove other impurities so that the steel
mills will have a product of consistent and acceptable quality. According
to the projected production of hot metal, the total demand for washed
coking coal is expected to increase from the present level of 15.2 million
tpy to about 24.0 million tpy by 1989/90.
34.       An adequate suppLy of steel is essential to the future develop-
ment of many basic sectors in the economy such as construction,
engineering, mining, manufacturing and transportation. Steel production
in India is provided by six integrated steel plants, five of which are
government-owned and operated, and by over 100 mini-mills. Throughout
most of the 1970s, the Indian steel industry was able to supply the domes-
tic market at internationally competitive prices and, with the exception
of a few specific products, India was self-sufficient in steel production.
Toward the end of the decade, however, the industry experienced a variety
of operating difficulties ccmpounded by bottlenecks in the supply of
critical inputs, especially power and coking coal, and production
stagnated. In the 1980s, production difficulties persisted, with the
steel sector suffering losses and domestic steel consumption has exceeded
production so that today India is a net steel importer. With the objec-
tive of placing the steel sector on a sound financial footing, prices of
medium- and high-carbon steels and most special quality steel products
were decontrolled in 1983 and are now set by market forces. Indian prices
are substantially higher, at present, than international prices for most
steel products.
35.       According to data on mine production and available washery
capacity, supplies of washed coking coals should now be more or less in
line with overall demand. Some imbalances are projected, however, for
certain grades. While the supply of medium-coking coal would be ade-
quateLy covered, shortfalls are expected for the other two categories,
particularly for prime coking coal. Substitution between grades is
Limited due to technical factors and imports of prime coking coal have
been required for the past several years. Despite plans for the increase
in domestic production of prime coking coal, imports will continue to be
required, and could eventually increase from about 0.5 million tons in
1983/84 to 1-1.5 million tons by the late 1980s.



-12-
36.       The Government of India (COI) is appropriately placing a high
priority on improving the average quality of both thermal and coking coal
delivered to consumers. In the case of coking coals, the steel plants
have faced a steady deterioration of the quality of prime coking coal, as
well as daily fluctuations. The principal problem is the increased ash
content, which seriously affects the efficiency of blast furnaces in the
steel mills. Steel-making facilities have been designed to use coal with
an average ash content of 17Z, and washeries have been designed
accordingly. Over time, the average ash content of the coal fed to
washeries and of washed coal has increased. In 1983/84, washed prime-
coking coal sent to steel plants had an average ash content of 22.5Z, with
daily fluctuations of 1-2%. The decline in the quaLity of coal is largely
due to the gradual deterioration of the resource base combined with
dilution, due to the increased use of blasting and mechanical coal cutting
and inadequate quality control. As a result of studies recently conducted
by GOI, several measures have been introduced to improve the quality of
prime-coking coal, including the elimination of substandard coals fed to
washeries, repairs and improvements at the older washeries, and greater
emphasis on the quality of coal delivered as a criterion of each mine
manager's operating performance. The proposed project will contribute to
an improvement in overall coal qualities by installing facilities which
will supply coal with 17% ash content of uniform quality.
Coking Coal Prices and Pricing Policy
37.       Coal prices are set by GOI on an administered basis.  In the
1970s, prices were allowed to lag behind costs, with the result that the
industry experienced large financial losses during that period. Over the
past five years, however, GOI has increased prices on four separate
occasions, so that overall price has increased 88Z. In 1982/83, GOI also
authorized CIL to introduce an internal retention price system whereby
internal accounting prices established for each subsidiary take account of
cost differences between the subsidiaries due to geological conditions,
location, and other factors outside the control of the subsidiary. This
change was recommended in the India Coal Sector Report (No. 3601-IN). As
a resuLt of the most recent coal price revision (January 1984), prices are
close to economically efficient levels, in that on average, they
approximate long-run marginal costs for thermal coals, and net-back import
parity for coking coals. Another important aspect of the 1984 price
increase was that the largest adjustments were made in the price of the
higher grades of coal so that the differentials between the grades of coal
would provide producers greater incentives to mine higher quality coals
whose prices would better reflect their value to the users.
38.       GOI's approach is to set coal prices at the mine head so that
they will provide a return of about OZ on net worth (assuming certain
production, productivity, and cost-efficiency standards), so as to ensure
the maintenance of the financial viability of producers and lead to an
adequate level of resource mobilization for future investment in the
sector. The need for periodic revision of coal prices to reflect these



-13-
objoctives was agreed upon under the Dudhichua Coal Project.  Coking c3al
pricing is complicated, however, because the basic product that steel
mills feed into coke ovens is washed coking coal rather than the raw coal
produced by the mines. Since November 1983, coking coal has been sold on
a washed coal basis, with CIL being responsible for processirg coking coal
for the steel industry. CIL and the Steel Authority of India Limited
(SAIL) introduced contracts for the sale of washed coking coal, which are
much like contractual arrangements in other countries whereby a price for
washed coal is negotiated, and bonus and penalty clauses relating to
quality are included in the contract. This pricing approach is considered
satisfactory, since it means prices are close to net-back import parity,
after adjustments have been made for quality differentials. Ex-washery
prices for coking coal with 20% ash content are Rs 560 per ton (US$46.7
per ton), including sales taxes and levies, compared to US$50 per ton for
coals imported from Australia (10% ash) after adjustments for port
handling, inland freight and quality differentials.
Project Sponsors
39.       The CIL group of companies was established in September 1975, as
a holding company with five wholly-owned subsidiaries. CIL operates
semi-autonomously under the direction of an 11-member board of directors,
which is headed by a chairman-cum-managing director appoinced by the
President of India. In addition to setting general policies for its
subsidiaries and retaining authority over the typical managerial functions
of a holding company, CIL directly manages the financial resources of the
group, overseeing the investment program and arranging for all Long-term
financing. For these reasons, CIL was considered as the primary
beneficiary of the Bank loan for Dudhichua, and the same arrangement is
being recommended for the proposed project.
40.       The CIL group is a very large and complex organization.  Since
its inception, CIL has made progress in strengthening its managerial
capabilities, with the result that its operational efficiency has improved
and production has expanded significantly. CIL is now able to play a
major role in formulating development plans and in coordinating the
implementation of sectoral policies. Specific operational and managerial
issues relating to budgetary and cost control systems, the operational
efficiency of open-pit mines, and project managemeztt organization and
practices were addressed under the Dudhichua Coal Project. The Dudhichua
project, including the studies being conducted in connection with it, is
proceeding satisfactorily.
41.       Underground mining accounted for 51% of CIL production in
1983184. CIL has begun a program to rationalize its underground
production, the principal aim of which is co reorganize groups of small
mines into larger units and to introduce mechanization, both in coal
extraction and transportation. This strategy is sound and is expected to
help to reduce unit production costs, as well as increase production. At
present, 24 reorganization/mechanization projects are at different stages
of implementation throughout the CIL group, 9 of which are for coking coal



-14-
mines. These schemes emphasize the mechanization of operations.
Underground production of the mechanized mines is expected to increase to
about 35% (from the present 5) in the early 1990s when these mechaniza-
tion projects are fully operational. A technical assistance program would
be required to improve the design, management, and operating procedures of
the highly mechanized underground mines. Such assistance would be
provided by consultants selected according to qualifications, experience,
and under selection procedures satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.03,
Project Agreement).
42.       Prior to 1980/81, CIL's financial position was weak.  Financial
losses derived from a low level of coal prices ar1 an emphasis on increas-
ing production without due regard to cost effectiveness. This trend was
reversed in 1981/82 and for the first time CIL achieved an acceptable
income level with adequate internal cash generation and long-term debt
service coverage. Its financial position improved further during 1982/83.
In 1983/84, however, CIL showed a loss of Rs 2,464 million and the main
financial indicators deteriorated owing to the back-dating of a national
wage and salary settlement associated with a new four-year collective
bargaining contract. The wage settlement was finalized in December 1983
but back-dated to January 1983. A price increase averaging 25Z was made
in January 1984. However, financing the back-t!ated wage award resulted in
a loss for CIL which was financed by deLaying debt repayment to GOI. This
resulted in a temporary fall in its debt service ratio. Indications are
that the current financial year (1984/85) envisages a return to a finan-
cial position more in line with that of 1982/83.
43.       Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) is the subsidiary of CIL that
will execute and operate the Jharia Coking Coal Project. BCCL is the
principal producer of coking coal in India, and at present accounts for
52Z of the total coking coal production. It operates about 100 coal mines
and 9 washeries. Underground mining accounts for two-thirds of BCCL's
production, which lead to relatively higher operating costs than for the
other subsidiaries. Its average operating costs are 44% higher than CIL's
average, whereas average revenues are only 20% above the group's average.
Despite its relatively weak financial position, efforts to improve
efficiency, together with the introduction of a retention pricing system,
have had a beneficial effect so that BCCL is expected to generate a profit
and improve its cash generation considerably during the zurrent year.
Development Strategy and Investment Plan
44.       Coal is India's most abundant indigenous energy source and
presently provides over 50% of India's commercial energy consumption.
GOI's energy plans emphasize the development of coal, as a fuel both for
generating thermal power and for direct use by industrial and commercial
consumers. In the 1970s, when coal shortages were prevalent, GOI's main
priorities were to increase production as quickly as possible with little
regard for efficiency, cost effectiveness, coal quality, or distributional
factors. COI's strategy has evolved to emphasize an adequate supply of
satisfactory-quality coal with economically efficient mining and transpor-



-15-
tation systems. Specifically, GOI's coal development strategy centers on
(i) the development of large-scale, highly mechanized coal mines (open-pit
and underground) to permit a rapid expansion of production; (ii) the
rehabilitation and mechanization of deep underground prime-coking coal
operations to increase supplies; (iii) improvements in the distribution
of coal to consumers who are far from existing coalfields; and (iv) the
introduction of measures to improve the quality of coal delivered to
consumers.
45.       Total investments in CIL activities during the period 1985/86 to
t             g1989/90 are currently estimated at Rs 60 billion (US$5 billion) in 1984/85
prices, of which about 20Z is estimated to be foreign exchange. The above
program is about 40% higher in real terms than investment in the previous
five years and represents an increase in both the number and average size
of projects, and in the development work required for each new large-scale
project. The sector is considered to be making good progress toward
establishing the necessary organizational resources and capabilities to
implement the investment program. About 23% of expenditures will be used
to reconstruct and improve operations at existing mines, 39% will be for
new projects currently being implemented, 21Z for projects prepared and
awaiting final approval before initiating construction, and 17% for non-
mine projects, including washeries, sand transportation, and project
feasibility work. A review of CIL's overall investment program indicates
that with a few exceptions, the investment program is following a least
cost development path.
46.       The investment program places strong emphasis on the identifica-
tion and developi-ent of new coalfields as close to consumers as possible,
in order to relieve the burden on the railways of transporting coal over
long distances. In particular, priority is being given to meet the needs
of consumers in western and southern India through the exploration and
development of new coalfields, and improvements in the coal transportation
system and in producer-consumer linkages.
47.       Although the program is predominantly for thermal coal projects,
coking coal projects are also emphasized because prime-coking coal has
been in short supply for several years, since its production is much more
difficult to increase than is the production of lower grades. Most coking
coal production comes from underground mines which range in size from 0.1
million tpy to 0.5 million tpy and whose recovery has ranged from 25% to
40% of reserves in-situ. These low recovery and productivity factors
constrain prime-coking coal production in India, but CIL hopes to improve
the recovery and production of prime-coking coal through the Jharia
Reconstruction Program. One of the most promising measures is that the
shallower areas will be mined by mechanized open-pit methods which should
provide 90% or more recovery of previously unmined areas, and will allow
coal to be recovered from old workings. In addition, small, unmechanized
underground mines (generally 0.1 million tpy to 0.3 million tpy
production) will be combined into larger single units wherever geological
conditions permit. Such rehabilitation projects will provide for
increased productivity, higher output, and higher recoveries. The Jharia



-16-
Coking Coal project incorporates both approaches: the Block II complex
uses mechanized open-pit mining technology and the Pootkee-Bulliary com-
plex is a rehabilitation undertaking that employs longwall mechanized
mining techniques.
Role of the Bank in the Coal Sector
48.       The main purpose of the Bank's involvement in the coal sector is
to support the development of this sector so that it takes place effi-
ciently from both a technical and economic standpoint, to ensure that
resource allocation is optimal, and rhat consumers wilL be able to obtain
sufficient quantities of coal of adequate quality in a timely manner.  To
this end, the Bank has (a) established a policy dialogue to identify and
address critical economic, sectoral, and institutional issues that may
impede the satisfactory achievement of GOI's objectives; and (b) initiated
a lending program for large-scale projects, the goal of which is to help
GOI improve its implementation and operational capabilities for highly
mechanized, capital intensive mining projects. So far, the policy
dialogue and lending program have resulted in (a) agreement with GOI
regarding a satisfactory approach to pricing that will lead to regular
reviews of pricing levels to ensure that they remain economically-
efficient and result in rising levels of resource mobilization for the
sector; (b) the initiation of important sector studies aimed at improving
coal transportation and distribution linkages; and (c) agreement with CIL
regarding various institutional and operational improvements and studies.
These studies have been initiated under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank.
49.       The Bank's involvement in the coal sector originated with one
loan to IISCO for a coking coal project (US$35 million under
Loan 290-P-IN, dated August 9, 1961), which financed equipment for various
existing and new coal mines. Project execution took more than five years,
which was two years longer than appraisal targets, owing to delays in
obtaining import licenses and local funds. Since the loan closed well
before the implementation of evaluation procedures within the Bank, no
completion or audit report was prepared. Bank Group activity in the
sector resumed with a sector review in 1980, following which the Coal
Sector Report, No. 3601-IN, was issued in 1982. This comprehensive review
addressed selected issues pertaining to supply/demand prospects for coal,
pricing, investment, and financing. Most importantly, ic facilitated the
pursuit of a policy dialogue with COI with respect to energy pricing and
resource mobilization through the preparation of the Country Economic
Report (No. 4395-IN, dated April 11, 1983). Specific measures regarding
coal pricing and coal transportation were included in the lending opera-
tion for the Dudhichua Coal Project (No. P-3735-IN, dated February 27,
1984).
50.       GOI has requested Bank Group financing of projects at regular
intervals to increase the production of both thermal and coking coals.
The Jharia Coking Coal Project will be the second of these, and the Gevra
Thermal Coal Expansion Project is under preparation. The lending stracegy



-17-
is expected to involve all CIL subsidiaries, with each operation address-
ing appropriate policy-sectoral issues, such as CIL's manpower planning,
its approach to selecting, preparing and implementing investment
decisions, and ways of improving the operational efficiency of a large
number of labor-intensive underground operations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The project was identified in July 1982.  It was appraised by
missions visiting India in March and May 1984.  The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 5336-IN, dated February 7, 1985) is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Negotiatio"s took place in Washington,
D.C. in January 1985. The Government of ltlia, CIL, and BCCL were repre-
sented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. P. Singh, Director, Department
of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The proposed project supports the Government's overall develop-
ment strategy for the coal sector, outlined in paragraph 44 above. The
project comprises the development of one open-pit mine and one underground
mine with design capacities of 2.5 and 3.0 mty of raw coal, respectively,
two coal washeries, coal handling plants, and surface infrastructure,
including railway spurs, workshops, warehouses, offices, and town sites.
The total annual output of washed prime coking coal for the steel industry
will be 2.6 million tons when both mines are operating at full capacity.
Both mining complexes form part of the master plan to restructure the
Jharia coalfield, which is the main source of prime coking coal for the
steel industry. The Open Cast Block II complex is the first of the
medium- to large-scale open-pit mines to be developed as part of the
Jharia Reconstruction Plan and by 1989/90 will account for about 11% of
prime coking coal production in India. The Pootkee Bulliary complex will
be the largest underground mining operation to be implemented in India.
Both mines will employ highly mechanized mining systems, for which Bank
assistance will be provided, and should improve the overall operating
efficiency of BCCL. The project will also help to improve the overall
quality of coking coal supplies to the steel industry by providing a
product with significantly lower ash content (17%) than the current
average supply to the steel sector (20Z-21Z). Furthermore, the project
will help to reduce the need for imported coking coal.
53.       The open-pit mine of the Block II complex has been designed to
produce 2.5 million tons of raw coking coal a year with an ash content of
about 30% and a 17-year life. Overburden will be blasted and removed by
draglines, assisted by trucks and shovels. After drilling and blasting,
the coal will be loaded and hauled to a crusher station, from which the
raw coal will be moved to the washery by a conveyor. Coal will be
released shortly after the start of excavation, and full production should
be achieved in 1987/88. Coal will be processed at the Madhuband washery,
which will have a matching capacity, and should yield 1.1 million tpy of



-18-
washed coal with 17% ash. Washed coal will be transported by the raiLway
system to che steel plants. Most of the output has been earmarked for the
neighboring Bokaro steel works about 30 km away. Marketing will not pose
any difficulties to BCCL.
54.       The Pootkee-Bulliary underground mine is expected to produce
3 million tpy of raw coking coal, and thus will be the largest mine of its
kind in India. Production will be built up gradually, so that small
amounts of coal will be produced at the start of underground work in 1985
and its fulL capacity will be reached in 1995. About 52Z of the coal will
be mined by fully mechanized, retreating longwall mining techniques, and
the balance by conventional retreating longwall techniques combined with
stowing to prevent surface subsidence. Management of underground mines
using fully mechanized longwall technology needs strengthening and techni-
cal assistance will be provided under the project to improve the planning,
design and management of such mines (Section 2.14, Project Agreement).
Stowing material (sand, gravel, crushed rock) is in short supply in the
Jharia coalfield and the medium- to long-term availability of sufficient
quantities of material will depend on CIL undertaking appropriate invest-
ments to provide the sand to the coalfield. Studies to examine alterna-
tive transportation modes for the sand will be conducted by consultants
financed under the loan (Section 2.14, Project Agreement). Two new
500-meters deep shafts for coal hoisting are presently under construction
with Polish technical assistance. These shafts are part of an extensive
shaft-sinking program required for the reconstruction of the Jharia coking
field. GOI will initiate, by June 30, 1986, a study to improve the
organization of shaft-sinking activities and to introduce more efficient
equipment. The raw coal from the underground mine will be washed in a
proposed new Pootkee washery also to be financed under the proposed Bank
loan. The wrshery will be implemented by BCCL and totally integrated with
the mine's surface instalLations. The washery comprises a plant with
facilities for crushing and screening, heavy media separation, flotation,
and dewatering. The capacity will be 3 million tpy of raw coal and the
yield of clean coal with 17% ash content will be about 49%, or 1.47 mil-
lion tpy clean coal.
55.       Electric power for the project will be supplied from the Damodar
Valley Corporation (DVC) main grid substation. Power is in short supply
in the Jharia area itself. To alleviate possible power problems, BCCL is
making arrangements with the Damodar Valley Corporation to supply power to
the project through a direct line which is presently under construction.
In addition, a 210 MW station planned for the early 1990s will be used to
meet coal industry power requirements in the Eastern Region, including the
Jharia coalfields.  BCCL would make satisfactory arrangements with the
Bihar Water Authority for water supplies to the project (Section 3.05,
Project Agreement). About 5,000 dwellings and associated service
facilities will be constructed for the work forces of both complexes, and
detailed schedules for construction are being prepared (Section 2.08,
Project Agreement). BCCL will prepare detailed training plans for both
Block II (Madhuband and Pootkee-Bulliary) staff by July 1, 1986, and



-19-
thereafter annual training reports to the Bank every July 1 addressing the
previous years' training results (Section 2.09 Project Agreement).
Environment and Safety
56.      The planning of environmental protection measures to be under-
taken will be the responsibility of BCCL and the Central Mine Planning and
Design Institute (CMPDI), and they will be based mainly on the Water
(Prevention and Control Pollution) Act of 1974 and the Air (Prevention and
Control of Pollution) Act of 1981. Both Acts have satisfactory coverage
and prescribe measures and tolerance limits acceptable in the industry.
In general, water and air pollution problems are not expected to be
severe. Water and air quality will be monitored regularly and dust, a
major potential pollution hazard, will be controlled by ventilation and
suppression/extraction equipment. The land that will be affected by the
mining activities is characterized as forest land, although it is very
arid. Because only very small quantities of topsoil are present, soil
conservation will be undertaken whenever feasible. Erosion control and
prevention measures, such es the placing of rip rap, turfing, and
revegetation will be undertaken cn waste dumps and exposed slopes. This
will also help to reduce surface water runoff. CIL and BCCL wouLd design,
construct, and operate the project in accordance with ecological and
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.07, Project
Agreement).
57.       Mine safety and related operational practices and design
criteria are laid down in the "Mines Act" of 1952 and the "Coal Mines
Regulations" of 1956 supported by monthly circulars from the Director
General of Mine Safety, Ministry of Energy as well as Acts regulating
human health and mine rescue work. They are adequate. The responsibility
to follow safety regulations rests with the safety organizations in each
subsidiary. The activities of each safety organization are coordinated by
a Safety Board of CIL, which meets quarterly to review safety practices
and introduce corrective actions where necessary. Although the overall
accident rate in CIL greatly improved from 1973 to 1983 (fatality rate
down 44% and serious injuries down 63%) the rates in CIL and BCCL are
relatively high when compared with other major coal producing industrial
countries. This is mainly attributable to very labor intensive, multiseam
mining methods with a low degree of support from modern mechanical and
electrical systems in most underground mines.  Further, the great number
of working places and large number of workers make safety supervision and
management cumbersome, particularly during periods of rapid expansions of
d            mining activities.  The project, which involves a high degree of
mechanization with modern equipment, has adequate safety conditions but,
to further assist BCCL, the technical assistance to be provided in support
of improved operational efficiency will strongly emphasize safety aspects
from the standpoint of both design and management. In order to satisfy
the Bank of the adequacy of safety measures and the incidence of occupa-
tionaL diseases, BCCL would make available to the Bank for comments every
six months, beginning January 1986, statistics on mine-related accidents
and occupational diseases.



-20-
Project Execution and Implementation
58.       The project components will be implemented by BCCL under t.e
direction of Project General Managers for each component reporting to the
Project Director of BCCL. Each Project General Manager is supported by
managers responsible for (i) mining and general engineering; (ii) cost and
scheduling control; (iii) administration; and (iv) a Deputy Project
General Manager, directly responsible for project implementation.  Each
project organization comprises about 200 positions which are fully staffed
and mobilized. The Project General Manager for both project components
have been appointed and both are considered adequately qualified and
experienced. BCCL will ensure that the organizational structure,
staffing, powers and responsibilities of each Project Management Unit are
such as are considered necessary for timely and efficient implementation
of the project (Section 2.10, Project Agreement).
59.       Each Project Management Unit will be directly responsible for
all activities related to detailed engineering, the procurement of local
goods (excluding mining equipment) and services, equipment erection and
commissioning, construction, and mine development. Mining equipment and
other imported items wilL be procured by the CIL Central Procurement
Organization, in direct collaboration with the Project General Managers.
These arrangements have already worked out well in the Dudhichua project.
However, in order to minimize the impact of external factors, such as
import approvals and foreign exchange allocations, import licences and
foreign exchange requirements will promptly be made available for imported
goods. Due to land acquisition difficulties, the Madhuband washery has
been relocated to nearby land that is presently in BCCL's possession. At
the Block II mine site, land is currently available for carrying out
mining operations up to 1989/90, and BCCL will take possession of the
balance of the land required for the rest of the mine life (i.e. until
2001/2) before September 30, 1988 (Section 2.11, Project Agreement). This
is considered realistic in the light of progress during the past eighteen
months on land acquisition which has been closely monitored by the Bank.
Although the CIL group has some experience in implementing large m4ning
projects, it stiLl needs to strengthen the procedures required for project
monitoring and control. Accordingly, BCCL will prepare, by December 31,
1985, a project implementation manuaL, each for Block II and for
Pootkee-Bulliary, will discuss them with the Bank, and adopt them by
December 31, 1985 and March 31, 1986, respectively (Section 2.12, Project
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The total financing required for the Jharia Coking Coal Project,
including physical contingencies, working capital, and interest during
construction, is estimated at US$696 million, of which about US$245 mil-
lion is in foreign exchange and about US$95 million represents taxes and
duties.



-21-
61.       The capital cost estimates were prepared by the Central Mine
Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI), on the basis of cost information
from recent orders for similar equipment and actual cost data for ongoing
projects. It was last reviewed in January 1985. The cost estimate at
this stage is considered to be relatively accurate, particularly in view
of the degree of design and specification necessary for mining equipment.
For this reason, 5% over the base costs is provided for physical contin-
gencies for mining equipment and 10% is provided for other cost items.
Local costs are expected to increase by 8.5% between 1984/85 and 1990/91,
and 6% per annum thereafter. Foreign costs are expected to increase by
3.5% for 1984, 8.0% for 1985, 9.0% for 1986-88, 7.5% for 1989, and 6.0%
for 1990 and thereafter.
62.       In keeping with current Government pricing policy, the overall
financing of project costs will be in the ratio of 50% debt and 50%
equity. The proposed Bank loan of US$248 million will provide about 41%
of the financing requirements, net of taxes and duties; an additional
US$85.8 million equivalent wilL be provided by GOI in the form of long-
term debt. COI's approach to cofinancing has been to link specific
projects with individual financing sources rather than have different
sources participate in each of several projects. Although in the case of
Jharia the Bank will provide most of the foreign financing, the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom will also provide
for a dragline that is being procured in advance of the Bank loan. With
respect to equity contributions, CIL would provide about US$132 million
out of its internally generated funds, and the balance of about US$216
million would come from the Government.
63.       The proposed loan will be made to GOI at the standard variable
Bank interest rate for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
GOI would onlend project funds to CIL for a period of 15 years, including
5 years of grace. The onlending rate will effectively be 13.25X per
annum, the standard Government rate for lending to industrial and commer-
cial enterprises in the public sector. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks. CIL will in turn make the funds avail-
able to BCCL on the same terms and conditions as those on which GOI has
extended a loan to CIL. Domestic inflation is not expected to exceed 8.5%
over the project period, so that the onlending rate is projected to be
positive in real terms during this time. The conclusion of a satisfactory
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and CIL and a satisfactory financial
arrangement between CIL and BCCL will be the conditions of effectiveness
of the proposed Bank loan (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
64.       Equipment and construction services financed by the Bank will be
procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. These goods and services consist mainly of mining equip-
ment grouped in 56 packages, averaging US$4.4 million each. For bid
evaluation under ICB, qualified local suppliers/manufacturers will receive
a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is



-22-
lower. Qualified local contractors would receive a margin of preference
of 7 1/2Z in the evaluation of bids for civil works contracts for the
Pootkee-Bulliary washery. It is expeected that for those itu-ms to be
financed under the Bank loan, about US$31 million (about 12X of he Bank
loan) will be for contracts awarded to local suppliers following ICB. The
procurement arrangement proposed for the project is in Annex IV.
65.       The Bank loan of US$248 million will be used to finance mining
equipment (US$169.5 million), a washery (US$60.8 million), and technical
assistance (US$2.0 million). In addition, US$15.7 million will be
unallocated. There will be no front-end fee. Loan proceeds will be
disbursed against lOOZ of foreign and 100% of (ex-factory) local expendi-
tures for mining equipment, at 100% of foreign expenditures and 70Z of
local expenditures on the washery, and 10OZ of expenditures on technical
assistance. Disbursements are expected to be completed by Harch 31, 1992
when all Bank-financed items would have been physically delivered or
completed. Projections for the project indicated that disbursements will
be somewhat slower than the profile for industrial projects in India, as
well as for similar projects in other countries, because of the long
gestation period of the underground mine.
Financial Evaluation
66.       The Jharia Coking Coal Project represents only about 5% of CIL's
total investment program for the period 1984185 to 1992193. By 1992/93,
when the project is expected to reach a production level of 2.4 million
tpy of washed coal, this will represent about 8% of CIL's total coking
coal production for that year.
67.       It is expected that GOI will continue to provide 50% of CIL's
investment needs through long-term debt, and the remaining investment
requirements will be met from CIL internally generated resources
(approximately 19%) and GOI equity contributions. By 1989/90, CIL's
average production cost per ton of raw coal is projected to decrease
slightly (OZ) in real terms from its present level of Rs 188 per ton
(US$15.7), owing to increases in labor productivity deriving from the
capital intensive nature of the investments. Coal prices are expected to
increase marginally in real terms (2%) during 1985186, and thereafter
would generally follow local inflation. This pattern is in line with the
Government's coal pricing policy and should strengthen CIL's financial
position. By 1989/90, the internal generation by CIL of funds available
for its investment program would rise from its current level of 1% to 30%
after allowances are made for debt repayment and increases in working
capital.
68.       To ensure that the consolidated financial position of the CIL
group of companies remains sound, COI will maintain coal prices that will
ensure the financial viability of CIL and provide for the progressive
internal mobilization of resources to cover an increasing proportion of
capital expenditures in the sector (Section 4.01, Loan Agreement) and CIL
would maintain the same financial covenants agreed under the Dudhichua



-23-
project: a debt qervice coverage ratio of at least 1.3, a long-term
debt-io-equity ratio not greater than 60:40, and a current ratio of at
least 1.2 (Section 4.02, Project Agreement). Annual audit reports for CIL
and BCCL will be submitted to the Bank within nina months of the close of
CIL's fiscal year and six months for BCCL's fiscal year (Section 4.02,
Project Agreement).
_           69.       The financial rate of return (FRR) for the Jharia Coking Coal
Project is estimated at 10%, a result of the long implementation period,
particularly o' the underground mine. This is composed of a 12% FBR for
the Block II compLex and 9% for the Pootkee-Bulli.-y component. The
difference is due to the higher operating costs and longer implementation
period of the undergrour-d mine at Pootkee-Bulliary, which are not fully
offset by the t3tter quality of its coal. A 10% fall in revenues will
reduce the fi,aucial rate of return to about 7%.
Economic Analysis and Risks
70.       The Jharia coalfield provides all the domestic prime-coking coal
used by the stt. 1 industry, and '-nth components of the proposed project
form part of the master plan for the reconstruction of the coalfield.
Block II was selected as the first medium- to large-scale open-pit opera-
tion to be developed in Jharia because of its relatively favorable geo-
mining conditions which will allow production to build up rapidly and help
to keep operating costs down. With regard to underground development, a
first group of five mines, which are presently at various stages of
implementation, meet the least cost criteria. Pootkee-Bulliary ranks as
the lowest-cost option in a second group of five mines proposed for fur-
ther development.
71.       The economic rate of returr (ERR) for the project is 21.5%.  The
Block II and Pootkee-Bulli. ry components are expected to have an ERR of
28% and 17%, respectively. Even under aaverse assumptions, the overall
ERR would remain at acci table levels of over 17%, and the
Pootkee-Bulliary romponent would be above 14%. It would take an increase
in capital costs of 55%, or of operating costs of 63Z, on a decline in
revenues of 24% to reduce the ERR to 2%, the opportunity cost of capital
in India. The differences between tr.e economic and financial rates of
return result from the elimination of custom duties on imported equipment
E            (current!.  averaging 74% of CIF value) in the calculation of the ERR. A
substantia portio of the economic rent of the project thus accrues to
the Government (through taxes), suppLiers, and to the work force (through
high wages compared to alternative cccupations) rather than to CIL.
Switching values for key parameters are (a) capital costs increased by
55%, (b) operating costs increased by 65%, and (c) revenues decreased by
24%, indicating the soundness of the inves.ments being proposed.
72.       The project faces minimal technical risks, since coal reserves
are well established and mining plans and equipment selection are based on
proven technologies now being used in other open-pit and underground mines
operated by CIL. With regard to coal pricing, there is some risk that



-24-
GOI's commitment to an appropriate pricing policy may not be implemented
in a timely manner; such an occurrence could adversely affect the finan-
cial position of both the project and CIL. However, the financial risk is
considered acceptable in view of the Government's policy to ensure the
continued financial viability of entities in VYe energy sector and the
mobilization of an adequate level of resources for coal investments from
within the sector.
PAERT V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY                         -
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank, CIL and BCCL, and the draft Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
74.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and CIL
and a Financial Arrangement between CIL and BCCL would be additional
conditions of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01, Loan Agreement).
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
February 5, 1985



Al= I
Page 1 of 5
TA3LI 3%
tw1a                     SO- DEMS I3k   r am
HURT         RUCE CUFS cmZD  AVESnA  ) I
Qm:~~~~C~S 3EE  ESIL3'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wc                                          Lw ISCM              K=  )
AM cUmA SQ. no
IOThL                               3237.4    328.4       3287.6
176,X5    1730S       161..3
m      Cwl CP M                          4W.0      100.0  20 .0               273.4                      91 1 _2
IMOM  cainmow=1  In  A
(3110dm OU oF 01L F4URZUWE?           79.0      113x0      1510             27z.0                    567.3
ADVL SVICST
F0U,LA7E=.HXD-1!AR (NTS_U30)    -34349.0  54754..    716965.0                              -
MSAX 103ULATIM CZ OF TOMl)            16.0       19.8       24.1             Zl.7                     34.7
FOIILAIES LWAR 200 OULL)                                 99424               -
SThT1m3I tOFULMM (qLL                                   1707.2
FOFIIAThL -S0401                                          1.7               - 
FM SP. eI                          132.3      166.6      213.4            164.6                    261_9
PIM Sl. t. AdirLt LA%             2464.      307.5      337.1            3f5.5                   1735-1
TOPMATXM AGE ISMRICE (:) C
0-wLI 'IS                          60.9       :2.7       39.3             35.6                     39._
15-6  ns                            54.5       54.2       57T6            56.8                     57.S
45 ASD Xa3E                          4.6        xi         3.1               .3                     3_3
POPM031nt CDOW' RAME CZ)
TOTAL,                            t.4       23         _.2              1._ .3
MAS                                  2.5        33         3.9             4.1                      4.3
C3CE 51t3 RAl-E (PFlt THO)            67.7       41.4       34.2            27.7                     3.11
xWrDIE UATH RATE (FM -.BS)            2318       17.8       12.              l.:                     9.5
GRSS  EWDm Cr1O0 RAIE                  2.9        Z.         2_2              1.8                    2'.0
FairLy FI-Mx=
AC ZaS. 6MKAL (-!.I=)                4.0    3732.0      4O .                                         _
U        CZ OF WJUtEED  _I_ l)        ._       11.7       23.0                   __                 52 -
L'IM OF FOS 1R00. FmR CAPMI
(1949-71-100)                         93.o      102.0      lo1.0            llZ-                    123.0
*t CAPITA SUPFF  OF
CALORES (Z aF wEOIpLUEESS)          94.0       9L0        86.0             97_7                    114.4
PR016  (C3DS PM DAY)                5.0        50.0       46.0             5b.3                    57.0
OF 113CR ASRAL AWD PCLSE          17_r j     15.0       13.0 Ic          16.9                     141.
OhriD CAES 1-) DfA:6H AE              26.2      20.7        11.0             9.3                      7_2
LIrE EXPEC.. A. 31Tq (tEAS)           42.5      *7.5        54.6            60.0                     60.6
MANF.- W03? KAZIE (PER TOM)          165.0      136.0       94.0            am3.                     66.3
ACCESS TO SaFE tA  (POP)
TOTAL                                 ,        17.0       33.0 /d          3Z.9                    37.0
tUnaS                                          60_8.0     a-L0 76         70.9                     56.3
RoQAL                                 __0                 20 .0 'd        22.1                     264.
ACSS T EZKETA DUISFtRL
(t tF POPOLATIcmO
TOTAL                                          18.o       20.0 lo          1.t                     41.3
13865.                                         MO 350     3-.0 1.         72.8                     47_*
RURAL                                            - -  I     2. 0          64                      33.3
PFCIATtIZO PE t RISZCI              4850.0    49o.0       3690.0 f1       3484.2                   7769.4
0O?. pF  STCSEZ 113505             10930. Lo  7420.0j    5M60 7T          6793_                    2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
:AL                               z   o2180.0    1650.0  1290.0 if       104.5                  1044.2
135-                                                     370.0 Id        29830                    451.2
RA                                    __               1 10410.0 7d      5993.4                  2596s
AIISSIORS PE HOSPr:TL SW                 _                    _               -.                     27.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HODS1fl
TOTAL                                S.2        56         5.2 I*
URBAN                                S.2        5. b.8 7.
RURAL                                s.2        5.6        5_3 _,
AVERIE WO2 OF PEtS0I/E003
WOAL                                 2.6        2.3
t33l*                               26         2.3
AMAL                                Z6         2.3
ACESS Z ELECT C: OF kIMLIHCS)
TOTAL                                 __         _  
RU                                    __         _.



mu r
-        TASLE                                        ?~~~~~~~~age 2of 5
_    32                                   - SOIA INIAI 84T                         S
T836?-  33?   TD                                U
"cm              zwo am
~~~~r   o rAB  UTU Z
1 &       17011     Zk                SL4 AE               S     va:mc
?3:KAW:  TOTAL                     61.0      73.0       79.0            97.4                    102.0
PAZi                     80.0      90.0       93.0           110.3                   105.9
FEN=                     0.0      56.0       64.0             3.                     982
SUcUDAXT: LTOL                     20.0      2.0        30.0            35.9                     4.0
HAZI                     30.0      36.0       39.0      -     4.6                     8.7
FENAl                    10.0      13.0       20.0            26.                     43.1
VOCATInAL  c: or SzCURUaW             2.,       1.0        0.7 /9          2.2                    17.3
POPI-?gACEM  AI
IRIAX                              6.0      410        34.0            38.5                    31.8
c84eT                              16.0      21.0         ..            1.7                      Ms
ADW;T LIUICI RATE (Z)                27.8      34.1       36.2            53.4                    79
ASS       CAWTOUSAND OP               0.6       1.1       L Ih            0.9                    10.1
1A*0P1f0 3CLU WSA  PU                 4.9      2L5        43.6          1i1                      1036
TV  CIf   5/2OUSAND to                0.0       0.0        1.7            13.7                    50.1
wA1n%XLfan! EfAL
zr  cmc 
.-EFSr) CXcnLa-
PE  1OSAI1 POPULATIE               m1G6      16.2        19.4           16.2                    SL3
CDIa ARDAL AXnhEDirCA                 3.2       6.2        3.7             3,6                     3.4
TOTAL LA30 FORCE CT10S)          l85951.0  219194.0   28219.0
InhAZ   CNT)                       30.7      325        31.8            33.3                    n.5
AGRIC0LTWZ (fnCP  )                74.0      74.0       71.0             9.6                    52.2
Z5rThY (P   IL)                    11.0      11.0       13.2            15.S                    17.9
PAITICIPX=O KALE CPECEIT-)
TaTAL                              42.6      40.0       39.4            26                     33.7
NAi                                357.0     52.4       32.0            57                      50.9
FInAE                              27.3      26.9       25.9            29.8                    26
Ehc UE          ? RA0       1,1                 1.1 1.1                    1.0                     1.1
D atm
PERCO0 a ZVAw MCs=
REczIED sr
R11ST 51 0r LDouS                  26.7      26L3ft    22.2 A           22.2                    2.2
--cT 20= or  PUUbOM                31.7         79 1    49.4 A48.0                              8.0
LORS= 20 or  DRu1flS                4.1       6.7 7      7.0 7t          6.4                     6.4
LOUIS? 40Z0O  OUSROLS              13.6      17.2RJI    16.2z7          X1S.                    15.5
-r  -  Sm
ES?TEDVM   ASOLM      r PEYC
LEM (USS PU CA13)
UBAN                                 ..        ..      13.0            133.9                   U36
AL                                   ..        ..      114.0          1llL6                    lS2.0
ETDIEATED 3ELATZ1  P0982? RC
LET   CUSS Pu CAPITA
Ur"                                  ..        ..         ..              ..                   177.9
ERURA                               .,         ,,         ,,              ,.                   164.6
ESThIATIM POP. 3r  AS3O1=
POVWn DEWIE LEVE CZ)
n                                    ..        .         0.3 lb         3.8 
RURAL                                ..        ..       50.m7           517                     37.7
Nor AVAIL _BL
NOW APPLICAB
NoTES
la  no S.   mvYram  for sech 1ndcmo A  popoeltgn-aslbtud artt mtlc _ema. Cowatg of ctrlm e                   cbs
- i -catot depends cm awalabtlLty of data and Is not u.Lfos.
lb -  DUm otbacu  noted.   ca fer 1960L refe  to my yea beuCom  1939 nd 1961; "ot. for 1970" bem.. 196  mi
1971; and data !or "bat Recan 1.tionte bateau 1980 nd 192.
nc 1977; /d 1976;  . 1975;  ! 197B;  k 1962;      1979; /I 196&-E.
JR. 19"4



ANNEX I
TPage 3 of 5
_ea   la _      m dm _ -  *r-r_ ft. a _ msafU               am a.aa    al t_  _. am aaaaa        _u amn  ala  _a  *_a aa     _  _   ta    z amwalen
daata at. atteaa!  t_t_ ae, _m  maaas  a.eaal _tna daft.m   _aw  amei_
naaml  tn <a_t .9tam  !a_  *_a at. _'.n  l-                . _.        mt__a  a     fat _0 _ata     -           a!  ma _lts.  amama_tta.
-saan  - l.. t t_ af  amn._t. a> la..t _m  r_.. _9 a .taaw  _m _ _t. _a                        _nm  alma.9daa  ra -  09.. tm!                     .
ne .         at.   ct  _     f  l_            f_t_ _ _                 t_ _a  at a. *          am a-  t  . --                    -      t         a
-.as -   "t ..f-" f9 eaw           _a. a   * _      _   ta, tWO.           1       .         - "At   nl  - a       e _ .0    t =e.Cl  Basl .
_e     aaaaa  men. 0 aatfi e              -  an. 9 c  nel.                   *a.a      alna
_.t ::.- ntitacaS.                                                                  tl.a................... _   _ata  -_| _ 9__an  _ta.  _ f_l. -f tei_ . 9|t.a_. ft_._ 
tt.  _-ft    t _ .       -  t. *     t .   p   9.   altn
,-*._  at~  _9W  -_ ca nat... _..lna_   - caaaiaaaaa                                eflaa  - _aM. _. .l.   mt) -  _tatlcna  %Ia.3 
C1..fl.a ma-  - .mnd ma M_b0 Infl_t baaan_                        taaalana.an.a aaaaaea. Satt.I. _9. aaaa!tsmaata m9PBv ftaLf=0
9,,             Baa.. nasa. -  nfl ~~l.a=..                                                        t, .9 flaa-.a - .galm.fsfan   talsnle.U                         la
- _a as. .a 9.1. W   .!   pta               . t .a    Zt_ _
L  9* C a -    cl                        a    n      . ra                               tn _ot    . _a .       _wa.fla  _.94    It
_taf  -W   .m   0  fnata matsa. a.aal .-at _  at_-    na    *_tO:a. n.aa. aflaia *a.  Os .9. Sa--aa.  a.aa   _
199. _ - .111 _m                                              _                                                   t_ _         as__a t
a                            man -.)caa    _-.i_  a-            - _.4  B! atn *: *. st-. - nsa_f
-                                                                                 -  Wa. at olr-t- Caet., act_    .  md -= assm m-    _
.9999,.-    a    a--a-t -                t.t-. _.9.  r-t-Sa,49 dm                a                                                     M M. G n  ma.   a mat...  = n ,t  _ a
_ntt t_   t L.                                                                                    O M        C.- _ a_ aft  _   .   -1- Wua at   t- t
r__-          WM       _d.  aL ss   r_ 1 ten - OL                     a       t a. __ _!              -et     5.9_   _ _  e_
|_tw   _r_   B_   o    E  _  _    _  - r_ et_        r       ~       ~       efft-  I.Pm 
t_r _m_-   4 _ma a.aat am_  _factli                                                 ltnma 9ar;. -.!   fl!Bt.  an    _ _,-_e_ta.       aa .   _ _t
am.  = , sa _rt_ tatrea  *tatWz a_m_tana -tam | ote.t _ t                             B4  a..
Basal. m  lit. atetmer   99.0 amamBaa salt    9.*a -     sat-...aa--nt. asBem   1         Un.     . a          ~ ~  
a..   w,t r__tsa        .-i  Sn  .5.9.mE_      t_t fl*    a r__ta              ._ a.   *Lu    att aatatan   t_a. r _ea tfl  r_fm
_ amuo  ta factll. r._a t  s a_. _am  _tt__. Ia_  amt mt_e. _ _  _i
gem..- ____- *n.alaaa am t..a flat. Iva _ f rt emen- a         . t_.0a.L .....                   i ,t*_ 
__ 1.b *-_ #      a.L- -r  - _aa-amat     at               t     ry _       - *    al   0     9 _.   t. s_           -  9.-B
t.            .      sta35mts.. aMa m-af I.fat_patan     r9   o.a  _ aS_ aflama ISn  tt t_tm.49a
aaa. te  aasalaf!. 9a_!sa  r_ rsalaw, Baa.! st             _    _ _                 fttt safla-. tel_ca_at_sT n      . l    a _r.t-  -  Wad a-Ba
9am.ama    9501. r_t tt_ a* a*_la am all.. T_   _a. tt_a                          le b.r a o_ ame. *trm t lafaa   1a49 ta. 045g1  t
sea faa...   .. L-ec          . t       . aa -          a  - __t                 sata.     _maBa a-.. - .Cs-s   a5 R-ftaact atfila.
gaas. .9 at 9t!ca .itsaa9sa.   t   a.aa   .a   at9aaytt _                                          aataa :_:a    ta.|  -                   _ 0.   Sn
_..a  a- faa.  .919.9ta.anaa _aaa  .!e.Bna._                                  .--_t,.9.. -- a. 9   an.. at.a                 atntaaac
a.naa  tameasa t-, 9._ tm................... ttt f  te ata .99  a._ 'ma  -        Utdl   sa.ts. a._t9n. at aaan............................. _taaa  _ -a.a..a.. -at
B. Cit. m-     rla        tt -L..         man.  1- g-                         l .aln .aaa-                             --.I
_. .,_    ..aan-_.a annn. a. amt _aaaaa a_ *_      aact    *_ ... n_a                   _ aa..n.a.E aataaa. 9 .a           __..  _--ta
_le   _      t...                                                                  ...t _    - - t. -    _-_ a   ..a. .       *__ -n -Bs C_
B  att_..                                                                        ttaa  _a- W-*a    - _ t  --t                                ; W
- a.c   -.;.n..    nact 91o0.. nB5' 19.c. Isa    -                  .9aans   aaa
a_..! a*,az  ;.. B. am_ _in I.                                                aa Bane,.. Ca. -t           - tja-- 0.9t   tta .             _a op
_-at    aaflaff   (_ _. _aa   _    t [tn .ttet_  _ tcl_f   9_o                    a 1a9a      *_ ara  ala _Ba   _t at .aae. am _t
Zt  _  _     _                                                                _     _tt_ ww rat_-0 "a
ta.aaaa  e tacraalataeB-t- n dt. 91~-n  gon.    ac.mnl
_       l"         en - _ t- _            W                                                      iit                            z
-_t a.t_t  -  _ _ .99. nt_* -.e              _t a_rr rr  _ _s.. .9   _sa        t.     t  Uar  ats   =    ta      a t_   r_r      an a =    n................................... _ _
tmaasna 99 la at.at--W na.             a9    n.a  aalsl-                    .aat  eat....             .
_E _tv *_-  _I-. M"tSt __z_ o _s s_
7a.tnc  rCntia.fatMea -   VW -fat  jtt  aa    t                                  a       ann.   aa a., ateam- .9  1aasa  090.
laa.aa   rat .lt-a.  a.'t.-  aal.aLif                                             ..ss.a         a.  mn anf. m           w..n9tn
Stat tat. (lat ate.u   - 999! alsa talat       lokat a-t_s                                         .t            a.-       Ia r.          a. -_"
= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                        di _t  _  _sv Me-   __ _ _
Lat mml.aa    tWO. a- .1 am aM! dmA.                          I '._.tat. m a !fla.515.
re_ _ o- met. _ot ct                t_af r       _l  mat a                  aa a6eWtta, amt a. r_s  __ tlatB   *t.9.a             at_ affsat. 
tM. _al.a    dlaa lemet a. tint_   _sta  mm,s fa a.    adm_  1
at aatanaa. ia.in t n n - a.*inn902 ~1.aten. anan   'rt    am aabt*| am V. _                              -   a- tn.49-   *
_9a                                                                              nact_.t_.tt,t_  _  _. .a.l _  a-t ant, e    _   _a .4.tn a. aetsatat9  at
___  _D !  _tldt_a   _ t    as. _.aBttW  e_ ta  -        t_ _ _
_t9ta _   s _ aa   aa.ttaa_                                 = a.t .11 ants. na.                                  =ttat   
S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t_nat..  aBa mm,    a.nsa ~a *_ Ba_ tMt_9em 
Iat _|        ,- a.nar msartn.9aaa -x _fi  at _a na.  t-a! tat_ -a -r   ..   B.t 9-t.e a itaam   -t =aa    _. rtat. z
A           ta -.           nW  t       tt           a                                              e tat. B.          tta *_ 
mm . _na  .9 .c    _a    - aSa _t   a=t    1'_a. a..                                      _-t  .as ?.ts _ - 9ft.  _a .as _           tt .t      _
l. a   aa   ea 5at.             _, _t    _a.  _a          r_ ar_                 .     atz.  e_ am me a. _ t_a  r9 tm   Bae tsn    l.  t_
sta   a.U  asata  1aa_.. *leo1 _ a. sat_eas ni . n9 jr. am 95           t        am 16 las
-                                                                             tanlttmala. ts _:a.m.-a? - ea.an.r_nna ma *at_. - r*-tananmeas at
_ .9-_. aanat tefas  *ita 10tt  _ala . asset r_.                                  n. _t__, am_-d          tam...* *a   -r 11' _ennea tat-
a._ -ana. a._tr f  t.nsd a'_a-da  -_ _fat _.sar                                t.nmztnl a     w-_ _it  .- teBaa   inm  a_ am .1 am
__  _.   _ra! ala-a, na.n -Q_  nan dma. _  _1
"*'llS at am _amam. -. t"e.atto. dm-a                    .  _.                 lataa.awaasa.ntt.n                           -maat0m.sa
*                     alna    9 _ta _a   5 aaat r_nl am           __a am    __. g..  ma  0
_aa        .  _9   _    _at n r l. .   .      tad
_a l                   aet 9s                  ee am    t                      l                     a_-       ta          c       _  r_          am
_9am   aa!  a-s. 7.a   nd  lms   9   as __                             _         .014.  flateaa  at_ _rl.ea!   _
mIn- t. til  faa t_ i *  n.. nail am ~aem.                                      lasaam..asa.  a.                         m aaf-
19 aa attfla nat 999  rsa. am a..  *- taaa  _ea                r_ 9a l19..fe.9m.sII   anm.nn   l    taa..
_alm  Sn.. amaa mee _as  -_w __         dan na-_  *_ln amn             _         -n-a             .ae    a  .......                m      .n
e_|_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ttai t.l_laba   a19 t                                              -.e_t_.tan -a



Pqp4 f S
cU:oNc D5.03T Da2a
XWPmCMONTA U11AtS 1260 DT
CGOSS DWuSrxc p C? Ul 1982/83 bJ                                            AnhwL RAE Olr C3IT  (2L Cona't Price.) cl
1955/56-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75  1975176-1979/yu
UrS$ S1..   2
CDP at Market Pricle              170.74  100.0                    3.7               3.6             3.7              2.9              4.1
Gross Do eutic Inve-amt            41.99    24.6
Crae Rati0ton   av4n               35.12    22.3
Correat Account Balance          - 3.87   - 2.3
OwUT. PUTAO      E M=   JID  lUCrrVrZY ID 1981
Valuo ide    tat factor case      Labor Force I/     V.A. Per Worker
S 61n.             __-__      US5   t of Nationl Averae
Agriculture                        51.7                 35.1       172.:    70.6       299       50
industry                           35.2                 23.9        31.6    12.9    I11U        185
Services                           60.6                 41.0        40.3    16.5    150          249
Totsl/Av.rge                      147.5                10.0                 1        -r :--    - or  7
GOVCIDUT  F JSMSC!
General Government of                             Central Covern t
PA. DIU.           t of GDP                   as. BIn.           2 of GOP
1982j3    1982183    f78179.-1982183        1962/B13    1982S83    1976/79-1982 83
Curret Recept.                      333.34      20.3          19.5                175.61       10.7         10.5
Corret E       _penditura           340.09      20.7           19.0               188.59       11.5         10.8
cqrrent Surplus/Defict             - 6.75      - 0.4           0.5               - 12.98      - 0.8        - 0.4
Capital Expenditure fl              131.2S       6.0           6.1                 95.13        5.6          5.7
Externl Assistane  (nt) il/          19.30       1.2           1.0
NOE. CR3DT AND PCES                1970/71  1975/76  1977/78  1978179  19979/80  1980181  1961182  1982/133  frbnuar 1983 Febnsary 1984
(IoBallios outteadi  at atd  e
MAne and Qas Money                  109.8   224.8   329.1   401.1   472.3   555.5   624.9   723.6            711.7          845.7
Bmnk Credit to Gover t (not)         54.6    106.3   137.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   309.1   352.4           353.5          406.6
Bnk Credit to Comrcial Sector        64.6   156.2   212.2   255.3   310.1   363.5   430.5   504.5            487.7          576.4
(Prcewtag& or Index Nu)me)                            Apr-Fab 1982VS3 Apr-Feb 1963/84
AMsy nd Quasi MOUsy as cE
of GDP                             27.3    30.3    36.7    41.1       ".1    43.6    42.0    44.0
Wholesale Price Indez
(1970/71 * 100)                   100.0   173.0   185.8   185.8   217.6   257.3   261.4   28.6             288.1              314.8
Anual perente  change in:
Wooleale Ptie Index                   7.7    -1.1       5.2     -       17.1 I    8.2      9.4     2.6         2.3                9.3
Bank Credt to Governn  (set)         15.0    22.7    16.3    16.0    Z5.6    26.5    20.Z    14.0             21.0 J/            18.9 h/
Bak Credit to Cnrcial Sector        19.4    22.7    12.6    20.2    21.5    17.2    I6.4    17.2             15.5 IV            17.9 b/
if The pw  capita GOP estimte In at mcrket prie". -sI  world Bak Atlas metbodolOgY. boe perlod 1979-198L.
All other cocverime to dollars la thi table we  at the avra  exchage rate prevaling durin  the perlod covred.
bl Quick 0Btimtes. Central Statistical Organizatien.
cI Computed fra  trend eit of CGP at factor coat series. including oS observation before first year And ose observati  after lest yer of
lsted period.
d/ World Bonk autistes of net dieburent of coneasonal aid sad ID.
1J Tranfer. bee Cent.v ad State  have b   neted out.
El  *11 loans and advane, co  tid perrie have beo  netted out.
/  Percentage dhan  fra  ed-Mrch 16  to end-February 1983.
blPercentage dc        f r nd-March 1983 to end-Februar  1984.
S/ Total Labor Force od percentage breakdown fro- 1981 Cenu.    cludes data for Aseen.



Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAHnS                       - 1980/S   1981/S2   19823/  1963/184/1           I NCIWISK 5181  (AVERAGE 1979310-1982183) &/
(USS ULn.)
Exports of Goods I                       8.*50     8.519     1.001      8.466            Riel rin  Good. VI              910       12
Imports of Goode gl                    -16.204   -15.500   -14.249   -14.412             T                               455        6
Trade Balance                          - 7.700   - 6.981   - 6.248   - 5.946             C_                              779        9
IFS Cnat)                                1.365       974        940       a5             ClothbU                         573        7
Lther nd Lathr Product.   480              6
Reanirc Bmlance                        - 6.335   - 6.007   - 5.30S  5.090                Jute Nanufacturee               333        4
it. ore,                        380        5
Lntaemt Incom  (Mt)                        600       238   -   415   -   64              Cotton Textile.                 32         4
t   Net  Srf   Il                             2.771     2.318     1.849      1.790            S-r                              36        1
others                        3.849       46
Balance on Ciarrt Account              -2.964   - 3.403   - 3.74   - 3.948
Official Loan 4 Greats                                                                   Total                         8.243       100
GrC" Disbur.ao..t                        2.651     2.570     3.066      3.41                      DEBT. WARCN 31. 1983
A.otzt n                               -   700   -   674   -   701   -   7U3
tlSS billo
Trenactio  with ID  C(mt)                1.035       690      1.980     1.295            Outst-ndn  ed Disbursed                   19.6
AlL Other It. oJ                       -   367   - 1.581         12       531            Dudllbnrad                                l1.1
Outatandin  including Undisburumd         30.7
Incrme  in Reme-)                          345     2.398   -   503   -  '?
Cras Reeerv. (enA Year) 1        !      I 6.859    4.461     4.964      5.500            DB SERVCE RATO F0R 1982/3 L/ nl           10.1 per cnt
Mac Resrves (nd yer) Mr                  6.532     3.497     2.038      1.449
DrDtmWA LOIDDC. WIZ 31. 194 X I
Fuel and Related Neterial.
054 nillion
ports (tPtroleu) g/                      6.672     5.590     4.613     3.395                                                 1        IDA
Outtndg  nd Disbursd                1.826     7.924
IJdudburne                          2.0D1     4.331
Outstanding Including Unddburmd   3.907    12.255
RATE OF UENIAR
June 1966 to imd-December 1971     :  OS$1.00 - as 7.50
Rs 1.00 - US#0. 13333
!ild-D.co.b.r 1971 to end-Jun  1972:  U1S1.00 - Pa 7.27927
ax 1.00 - U550.137376
After and-J_n. 1972                .  Blastin  late
Spot Rat entd-rch 193                  US1 .00 - Rn 10.0501
it 1.00 - J580.0997
Spot Rate dad-Narch 1984               US$1.00 - as 10.7151
Ba 1.00 - USS00933
31 Eainted
k     t Fie  g     or all            t            t)       r pants  e  interet an foreig    a         d charge pad to DIF. a_d  Jar r-edpte Ls
Interest eareed o  foreig 
11igur  given inclue wors' rdtt_acu  but exclude, official gret aueistace whic  in Includ.d within Officl Loam  ad granto. ad
oon-reaidat depeite which are included ithl &all other item.
I Exclude not Wm of VlW credit.
n/ Amortization and intart paymte on foreid leane as a prceatag  of total curreat receipts.
ol Includee exchang  rate adjuatmato to the valuatio  of reservee and finmnci   of  1        1balance  ia rupee trade.
/    ludin  gold.
Bat of crude petrola, exports.
rl  Includin  Irom   d stel.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATENENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1984)
US$ million
x Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.     Akproval         Purpose                        Bank        IDA j]      Undisbursed V
50 Loans/                                             2,164.0         -
93 Credits fully disbursed                                -       5,535.2
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                                  30.0           8.15
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Development         -          18.0           0.03
1251-TN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -            24.94
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0         -            11.19
1335-IN    1977     Bombay Urban Transport               25.0         -             1.17
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -          30.0           8.45
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development             -          20.0           1.65
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -          12.0           7.32
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -             2.62
720-IN    1977     Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -          23.0           1.52
728-IN    1977     Assam Agricultural Development        -           8.0           1.34
747-IN    1978     Second Foodgrain Storage              -         107.0          52.65
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           8.0           4.93
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0         -             1.72
1549-IN    1978     Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0         -             3.60
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6          37.38
793-aN   1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -         200.0          30.11
806-IN    1978     Jamu-Kasbmir Horticulture             -          14.0           9.91
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -          17.5           8.40
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -          16.0           4.86
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0         -            15.10
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -         150.0          43.85
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0         141.11
844-IN    1979     Railva, Modernization
&  ainterance                      -         190.0          25.05
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -          27.0          14.06
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0           2.94
871-aN   1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -          30.0           0.83
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            50.00
874-aN   1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -         200.0          10.71
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -         129.0          38.32
899-IN    1979     Maharashtra Water Supply              -          48.0           6.72
911-IN    1979     Rural Electrification Corp. II        -         175.0           4.45
925-aN   1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -          23.0           2.24
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          42.74
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -          37.0           6.51
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -          20.0          16.07
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -          46.0          27.63



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      ADnroval        Purpose                         Bank        IDA jj      Undisbursed j,
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          19.48
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          94.88
1012-IN    1980      Casheunut                             -          22.0          16.11
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         159.67
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -          10.0           7.56
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urbau Trausport              -          56.0          17.76
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                  -          54.0          30.32
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          49.09
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0         -             5.37
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0         -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -         225.0         113.52
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -            20.31
107Z-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                     -          35.0          14.38
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          42.64
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -          42.0          19.49
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -         140.0          85.73
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -         314.0          89.58
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -          54.0          37.68
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -         400.0         117.86
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -          23.0          13.92
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -          28.0          17.08
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -          37.0          28.05
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -          125.0          70.25
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II         -         400.0         273.61
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         154.99
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -            18.15
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          19.92
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          15.13
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0         -            57.70
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0         -           269.54
2095-IN    1982      AnC IV                              190.0         -             0.43
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0           4.69
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -            96.43
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III          304.5          -           274.48
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                     -          60.0          30.57
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                  -          72.0          60.11
1286-IN    1983      Januu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0          24.97
1288-IN    1983      Chanbal Madhya Pradesh                -           -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0          19.65
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0         105.96
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration         165.5         -           140.52
2210-IN    1983      Railways modernization &
Maintenauce II                   200.0          -           197.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US%' million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                        Bank         IDA j      Undisbursed V
1299-IN    1983     Railvays Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -         200.0        177.00
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development      139.3          -          133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                -          150.0        114.38
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubevells II             -          101.0         89.79
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power          -          170.0        148.38
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power        156.4          -          156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Development III       -          147.0        132.10
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -           32.0         26.95
2308-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization       22.7          -           22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Pover Transmission         250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1983     Himalayan Watershed Management      46.2          -           45.89
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                24.1         -            24.04
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -          105.0         83.20
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -           31.0         29.37
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -          70.0          66.23
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry            -           27.0         25.57
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                   250.0                     249.38
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0                     150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5                     241.90
2415-IN    1984     Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6                     203.09
1483-IN    1984     Upper Ganga Irrigation                         125.0         117.38
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation                       172.0        164.14
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*          280.7                     280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Pover*          300.8                     300.80
Total                                   6,526.3    12,268.3
of which has been repaid              1.350.8       173.0
Total nov outstanding                   5,175.5    12,095.3
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA &J       5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbursed (excluding *)         2,712.69    3,494.35
11  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    Company                      Loan      Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5         -       1.5         -
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8         -       0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4         -       1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2         -       0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6        0.4      1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8        1.3     13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0        0.3      1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1        0.1      1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6        2.9     11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1        3.8     18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6         -       6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0       1.2       5.2
l96;            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2       8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited           15.0         -      15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9        0.3      3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3         -       2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5        0.2      1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0         -      28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8        -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.5         -      15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.1         -       8.1
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       3.7        -       3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS        210.7      12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                         53.0       3.4      56.4
Repaid                      34.0         -      34.0
Cancelled                   33.0        1.4     34.4
Now Held                     90.7       7.3     98.0
Undisbursed                  44.1        -      44.1
0.0  ...... ... ...n



ANNX ITI
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Country to orenare the Droiect
Two years
(b) The aiencv which has Prepared the Droiect
Central Mine Planning and Design Institute
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first mission to consider the proiect
July 1982
(d) Dates of departure of aopraisal mission
Hay 1984
(e)  Date of completion of neLotiations
January 22, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 5, 1985
Section II:      Special IBRD Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) Technical assistance will be provided under the
project to improve underground mining procedures, to
study alternative transportation modes for sand
(stowing material); the project will also include a
study aimed at improving the organization of, and
equipment for shaft-sinking activities (para. 54);
(b) GOI to maintain prices at levels which will ensure
the financial viability of CIL, as well as an ade-
quate level of resource generation for the coal
sector (?ara 68).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
JHARIA COKING COAL
Procurement Arranfements
(US$ millions)
Total
Proiect Element                     ICB          LCB          Other          Cost
Block II
Mining equipment & parts           102.5          4.6         14.2 a/        121.3
(80.7)                                   (80.7)
Washery                             73.6          -             -             73.6
Land & civil works                   -           10.0          2.1 b/         12.1
Engineering                          -            -            0.9             0.9
Pre-operation                        -             _           6.5             6.5
Sub Total                        176.1         14.6         23.7           214.4
(80.7)                                   (80.7)
Pootkee-Bulliarv
Mining equipment & parts           122.4         90.5           -            212.9
(98.9)                                   (98.9)
Washery                             86.6          -             -             86.6
(66.4)                                   (66.4)
Land & civil works                   -           58.5          0.5 b/         59.0
Engineering                          -            -            5.9             5.9
Pre-operation                        -            -            3.1             3.1
Technical Assistance                 -            -            2.0             2.0
(2.0)           (2.0)
Sub Total                        209.0        149.0         11.5           365.5
(165.3)                    (2.0)         (167.3)
Grand Total                        385.1                      35.2           583.9
(246.0)      163.6         (2.0)         (248.0)
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amtunts financed by the Bank.
a/ UK financed dragline.
bI Land acquisition only.



AFGHANISTAN '                   .. ...... \.. ..                                                      A
AFGHANISTAN S~ ~ ~~~~A' SHMI   #vpr 11mil I0"-jt #lVw W (J1111ridH                  I N  D I A
/i -t ^t.,.  tv   ta,JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT
J  ,IiMACF      '2 ') -"                                         Jlinri, Coal Finlcl
\ .      MACHAI             C H I N A
PRA IFSH                                            &       olFud
V\ t  -F                                I   I  Malur Coal Fltirl ArOas
eJNI8  1                                                         Q I      Oparatdl lby Varlous Mlnih,'c Coinpannio
jo0    PAKISTAN                                                                                A LJ 'j  A  Coni ndina Ltd, Haccritirur, ror
/f ~   YAA (,Ji>yls         /                                   S    National Cnapital
J                                                                    a    s,ialctal Clidms
g        ts,  te ;!K~I-Oew     NNlh    S('AI                                -.-                      7 
NEPAL '  '                                               ;,2'- -
( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRPAFl.                                                     ,,'_BHUTAN~
"I     R A jel  fHxl V                                             K                                 ASSA             M I~AUNMH
K9. _L~ 'w       ) A       t GtMl>KA             N ,  AGA1ANO
x,>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 H odw ACilrI9 lE4BANGLADEi 
Jharia Cokin ColMAjet
c3AI    '4\)  \ ~~~Norlk Easlern Coolfiel
C: ''/   '  ~~~~~                      _                       ,?  .:SXRMBURA
J MAHI1ARASHIRA.                                                     Lidva   ('B' LCCL)
9embaa; %  (**                                  }     S                        
Coni&y Coalf Lie.nCa/CL
PRA           - -               > ,;i" f    ,Wefrrn C',alfields Lid, (WCL)..
iAN     PRA                                    P '                                        - 
jI        SinguIen! Collieries Co, Lid (SCL)
GOA
KA RNA MA   (KA



73 ,  P.  n  DS W X v >    CX  HAR 9LmrJBANGLADESH (JMAN//                                                                  I
J M --   -.,<   e    3  3  )Jharla   Cokinci Coal Pr plac_
-          /, A9T o.?                               *IAO G                                      A. A            s ?1 r          T AIRI/PURA P  M/IORAM
j   MADHYA  PRAOF                                                 :                 IU   |       Norlh Eastern Coalfiel
~~ ~~?    N.    ,-*     '~~~r-                                                            Eastern Coalfields    A
\}    %   \,         \<D  ~~~~~~ON.ng   S -                        2-          <            Lid (EC9 L)J                    
, t \ . \t. \t ORISSA  \     > Ghoral Coking Cool
'20                           f           MAHARAStltRA                                                                        Lid. BCL)
\  't=ga halult  T    \    i'l'    \Central Coalfields Ltd.(CCL)                y$5
'                  t,                                           7 >   \9 .  V   .;  Wpsiern Cooifitios Lid. IWCL)
,AN9DRi PA' A A
Singoareni Collieries Co Ltd (SCL)
GOA                                         ,
/(A Al/VA JA1KA I
>,~f~Ma               i                                                        ANDAOMMltA
ANDAMAN
.  S       )               ,~t                                                                 A AID             .
'VN/C08AR
I1TA44/1 NADU                                                                          ISlANDS
rhog RW ds Admnprq.d by
rte fphtu 0"#Vtb viiv                 KR  I A                                                                                                            ,.
h           'o.                           KORAlA1 ?                       I o      Neyvol, Lignite Corporation Ltd (NLC)
nhndos ttatd th xlbS, *J*
eVondi use oE rho VIAiUr A"
O   co N  CI rbm  mS   rh s s                      L                    ,  ,
0  C.i afti The baflh,i5 ssee
o:                                                                        'IX=,txtht  :   h  2   s        KILOMEtERS   0        200        400          00 200  4                   . B
m      VW   t  tth On  ta                                                    '           SRI                   MIlES 0        100      200       300      400       500 
- aMwiwl U 'C'd'*   @ANKA



