Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15238
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2498-IN)
December 29, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 30,1994)
Currency units   =    Rupees (Rs)
One Rupee    =    US$ 0.316 (approx.)
One US Dollar   =    Rs 31.6
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Million cubic meters of gas   =    37 million cubic feet of gas
=    6,500 barrels of oil
=    890 mt of oil
=    1,940 mt of (Indian) coal
1 British thermal unit (Btu)   =    0.252 kilokalories
I m3    =    cubic meter
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCCL      -      Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.
CCL       -      Central Coalfields Ltd.
CIL       -      Coal India Ltd.
GOI       -      Government of India
NCL       -      Northern Coalfields Ltd.
NHPC      -      National Hydro Power Corporation
NTPC      -      National Thermal Power Corporation
PAF       -      Project-affected family
PAP       -      Project-affected person
SAIL      -      Steel Authority of India Ltd.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                    Deceber  29, 195
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Renort on India - Jharia Cokinp Coal Proiect (Loan 2498-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the India - Jharia Coking Coal Project (Loan 2498-IN, approved
in FY85), prepared by the South Asia Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the implementing agency.
The project, which closed at the end of 1993, had two objectives: to increase the output and productivity of
coking coal production, and to raise the quality of coking coal supplies to the steel industry. The US$248 million loan
consisted of two subcomponents: the first, was to develop an open cast mine to produce 2.5 million tons per year of
raw (unwashed) coking coal; and, the second, to develop a highly mechanized underground mine, with its dedicated
washery, to produce 3 million tons per year of raw coking coal. In addition, the project was designed to assist the
implementing agency, Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (BCCL)- - a subsidiary of Coal India Limited (CIL)- - in three
important areas: underground mine operating practices, shaft sinking and transportation of stowing materials.
The first component ran into difficulties with resettlement of the families residing at the site of the open cast
mine. By the end of 1993, only 160 families out of a total of 711 had been resettled. The remaining families demanded
employment for all individuals above 18 years of age. While the company had provided employment for 247 project
affected people in the first group, it could not accommodate such a large number, given its already overstaffed
organization. The company, therefore, decided not to resettle the remaining families and to reduce the mining area.
Consequently, production only reached 600,000 tons of raw coal in 1993.
In the underground mine, after the sinking of the first shaft it was discovered that the actual geology of the mine
differed considerably from the initial assessment, because of the presence of dikes, faults and other anomalies. This
precluded the large scale introduction of mechanized equipment, effectively destroying the mine's profitability. The
component was canceled, leading to the cancellation of a large part of the loan. The studies related to shaft sinking,
underground mine operating practices and transportation of stowing materials were completed, but the results can only
be of use in future operations. With the partial cancellation of the open cast mine component, out of a loan of US$248
million, only US$55.3 million was disbursed. The reestimated ERR for the open cast mine is reported at 28.2 percent.
Based on the above, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and its institutional development impact as
modest. The sustainability of the reduced open cast mining operation is, however, rated as likely because of the
existence of sufficient reserves, the operational capability of the company and the low cost of its operations. Bank
performance is also rated as unsatisfactory
Lessons include the importance of careful Bank appraisal of the technical and geological aspects of mining
projects and the risks of overreliance on Borrower's assessments of mining potential. In projects requiring substantial
resettlement and land acquisition, the Bank needs to ensure that satisfactory plans to deal with families to be displaced
are in place at an early stage.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT
(LOAN 2498-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACE    .................................................                                                                                  i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ......................................                                                                                iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE .................                                                                               1
Project ldentity   ............................................                                                                        1
Background   ..............................................                                                                            1
Project objectives and  description  .................................                                                                 2
Project design  and  organization   ..................................                                                                 3
Project implementation   .......................................                                                                       4
Project cost and financing    .....................................                                                                    7
Project results  .............................................                                                                         7
Project Sustainability    ........................................                                                                     8
Bank Performance   ..........................................                                                                          8
Borrower Performance    .......................................                                                                        9
Project Relationships    ........................................                                                                      9
Consulting  Services   .........................................                                                                      10
Project Documentation  and Data   .................................                                                                   10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                                                                ........            11
Preface   .................................................                                                                           11
Project Implementation   ......................................                                                                    11
Comments on Part I  .... .    ...................................                                                                     12
Cancellation of Part of the Loan    ................................                                                               12
Environmental issues    .......................................                                                                    12
Resettlement and  rehabilitation  of project affected  people   .................                                                  13
Procurement Procedures   .....................................                                                                     13
Comments on Part III  ........................................                                                                       14
Bank Performance   .........................................                                                                       14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Borrower's  Performance    ......................................                                                                                                14
Lessons  Learned                                     ...........................................                                                                 14
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................                                                                                                         15
A. Related  Bank  loans  ........................................                                                                                                15
B. Project Timetable  .........................................                                                                                                  16
C. Disbursements                   ..........................................                                                                                    16
D. Project Implementation    .....................................                                                                                               18
E. Project costs  and  financing   ...................................                                                                                           19
F. Project Results    ..........................................                                                                                                 21
1. Economic  impact   ........................................                                                                                               21
2.  Financial  impact .........................................                                                                                               23
3. Social   impact    ..                                    .......................................                                                           24
4. Studies    ..............................................                                                                                                  25
G.Status  of Covenants  ........................................                                                                                                 27
H. Use  of Bank  resources    .....................................                                                                                              28
ANNEX 1.1 COAL INDIA LIMITED: INCOME STATEMENTS  ....                                                                                        .........                 30
ANNEX 2.1  BHARAT COKING COAL LIMITED  .......................                                                                                                          33



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT
LOAN 2498-IN
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Jharia Coking Coal Project in India,
for which Loan 2498-IN in the amount of US$248 million was approved on March 7, 1985. The
loan was closed on December 31, 1993, one year behind schedule. US$192.7 million of this loan
have been canceled; US$165.3 million, when a review of the geological conditions for the
Pootkee-Bulliary Underground Mine component indicated that the original mine design could
not be implemented and no other economically viable option could be found; US$25.0 million,
when a change in the layout of the BlocklI Opencast Mine, caused by the inability of the
implementing agency to satisfactorily resolve a dispute over compensation to land owners, led
to a corresponding change in the list of required equipment; and US$2.4 million, as a result of
lower-than-projected equipment cost. The remainder of the loan was fully disbursed. The last
disbursement was in July 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Energy Division of the India Country Department
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in January 1994, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
and internal Bank memoranda.






- Hi -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JHARIA COKING COAL PROJECT PROJECT
LOAN 2498-IN
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The Jharia Coking Coal Project had two major objectives: One, to raise the output,
recovery and productivity in the field of coking coal production through the development of
(i)the Block II opencast coal mine, the first large scale opencast mine to be implemented by
BCCL and (ii) the Pootkee-Bulliary mine, the largest underground mine, in terms of output (3
milion tons per year), in India. And, two, to raise the quality of coking coal supplies to the
steel industry through the development of a sector-wide action program to improve coking coal
quality and by expanding the production of mines yielding high quality coking coal. Both, the
output from the Pootkee-Bulliary mine and from the Block II opencast coal mine were to
augment the supplies of high quality coking coal.
In addition, the project was designed to extend the Bank's assistance into three
important areas: (i) underground mine operating practices (improved procedures for underground
mining using highly mechanized equipment); (ii) shaft sinking (improved efficiency through
better organization and more modern equipment); and (iii) transportation of stowing materials
(study of alternative modes of transportation of sand for stowing).
Implementation experience
While the project was designed well, expectations with regard to the ability of the
implementing agency to deal with difficult resettlement issues and the assessment of
geotechnical conditions for highly mechanized underground mines were overly optimistic.
Implementation of the P'ock II Opencast Mine affected 711 families or 4266 persons
(assuming a household consists on average of six persons). BCCL informed the Bank that it has
up to now resettled 160 families (or 960 people). The company has built two resettlement sites,
complete with infrastructure facilities and civic amenities, to house aU project-affected
people, and provided employment for 247 project affected people. At this point, a deadlock has
been reached since the remaining 551 project-affected families (or 3306 people) refuse to vacate
their houses on the project site unless BCCL offers employment to every person above 18. The
mine area had to be re-designed to enable some mining to be done at a much-reduced annual
tonnage, while deploying less equipment than was originally scheduled. In addition, mine
operations have also been severely affected by major underground fires in the coal seam.



- iv -
The Pootkee Bulliary underground mine had to be canceled altogether since it was
found, on detailed examination, that geological conditions would allow the deployment of only
a fraction of the scheduled fully-mechanized longwall equipment scheduled in the original
design and that the resultant revised economic evaluation did not satisfy the minimum
acceptance criteria of either the Government's Public Investment Board or the Bank.
Results
The original project objectives were not achieved. The Pootkee Bulliary underground
mine component had to be canceled. The Block II opencast mine, due to land acquisition problems
and underground mine fires, is currently producing only about a quarter of its design output
tonnage; it is unlikely to ever produce more than a half of its design tonnage.
In retrospect, too much was taken for granted at appraisal, in respect of both the
geological conditions at Pootkee Bulliary underground mine and the ability of the mining
company to deal with the resettlement of project-affected people residing within the surface
area of the Block II opencast mine.
A comparison of the actual financial (6.9%) and economic rates (38.6%) of return for the
Block II Opencast Mine with the projections at appraisal shows a significant decline in the
financial rate (12% at appraisal), but an improvement in the economic rate of return (28.2%).
This result is due in part to the fact that only part of the projected efficiency gains were
achieved and the divergence between economic prices of coal (based on imported Australian
coal) and the prices BCCL realizes.
Sustainability
Based on BCCL's current projections the Opencast Block II mine will be operated for
another 15 years, until 2009. Assuming the coal company continues to succeed in keeping the
mine-fire, that currently affects operations, under control, the project is expected to continue to
yield modest financial and satisfactory economic returns. While BCCL management insist that
they will reach two million tons per annum in the following years, the Bank's engineer's
opinion is that less than half of that annual tonnage will ever be achieved.
Findings and lessons leamed
It is clear that too much optimism was expressed in the initial assessment of the ease of
compensating, moving and resettling the population residing on the Block II opencast mine area.
There are opinions expressed by both CIL and Bank staff that Bank involvement in coal mining
projects in which major resettlement is necessary generates feelings among the potential oustees
that they can obtain far better terms than could be expected otherwise. In both this, the Jharia
project, and the Sonepur Bazari component of the Coal Mining and Coal Quality Improvement
project (which is currently beeing implemented), land acquisition difficulties have resulted in
crippling delays and a considerable increase in project costs. If at all possible, Bank financing of



- v 
similar projects should not be undertaken unless land acquisition has been entirely completed in
advance.
In the case of Pootkee Bulliary underground mine too much confidence was placed in the
Borrower's assessment of the mining potential at appraisal. It was only later, when an
exhaustive examination was made by consultants in order to schedule the deployment of the six
fully mechanized longwall mining units, that it became clear that opportunities existed for
only one or two units at the most, thus destroying the viability of that component of the project
and forcing cancellation of the major part (67%) of the loan.






PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name: Jharia Coking Coal Project
Loan No.     2498-IN
RVP Unit:    South Asia Region
Country:     India
Sector:      Energy
Subsector:    Coal
Background
Coal is India's largest source of commercial energy. Almost 70% of annual coal output is
used to generate electric power; the remaining 30% are consumed by a variety of industrial
enterprises.
ORGANIZATION OF THE COAL INDUSTRY. Coal production is largely in the hands of
seven coal companies, which operate in different geographical regions of the country. An
eighth company is engaged in mine planing and design. Organizationally, these coal companies
are subsidiaries of Coal India Ltd. (CIL), which was established after nationalization of the
industry in the early 1970s as a holding company with the explicit purpose to manage the coal
industry. CIL is fully owned by the central government. One of these subsidiary companies is
Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), which is responsible for production from the Jharia
coalfield, India's primary source of prime coking coal for the steel industry.
THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY. After the steep increase of international oil prices
in the 1970, the Indian Government established a working group to review India's energy
policy. One of the main recommendations of this Working Group on Energy Policy was
substitution of oil products with energy based on indigenous coal. This led to a massive shift of
resources into the power sector. To facilitate this, the central goverrunent established the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power Corporation
(NHPC); in parallel, the Goverrment decided to nationalize the coal industry. This provided
the coal industry with access to public resources which enabled it to finance the investments
required to meet the rapidly growing demand for coal. The Government pursued a similar
approach with regard to its steel industry. The Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) was
established to control the production of steel in India and Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (BCCL) to
manage the core of the country's nationalized coking coal mines.
Immediately after nationalization of the coal mining industry in 1972 the Government's
aim was to increase coal production as quickly as technically feasible. Little regard was given
to efficiency and coal quality. By the early 1980s recognized the cost this strategy imposed on



- 2 -
the economy and took steps to improve the efficiency of mining operations and to raise coal
quality. The Government then had the following aims for the industry:
(a)  the development of new, large-scale, highly mechanized mines to allow rapid
expansion of production with due regard to safety and environmental protection
and using increasingly efficient technologies and equipment;
(b)  the rehabilitation and mechanization of certain of mines producing prime coking
coal in order to reduce the need for imports;
(c)  improvement in the availability and cost of coal to distant consumers by
optimizing mine/consumer linkages, improving transportation systems and giving
priority to the exploration and development of mines in southern India; and
(d)  the introduction of measures to improve the quality and consistency of coal
supplies to consumers, reduce transportation requirements and improve the
efficiency of thermal power units, steel plants, industrial boilers, etc.
THE BANK'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY. The Bank's involvement in the Indian coal
sector began with a loan for the Chasnulla mine (Coal Production Project TO 287) in 1961. A
major accident at this mine, killing 175 miners, led to a hiatus of almost two decades in the
Bank's support for this sector. In the late 1970s the Bank decided to explore again the
possibility of extending its support to the coal sector. A mission to review the coal sector visited
India in 1980, and its report, India Coal Sector Report (Report 3601-IN), was issued in
September 1982. The report endorsed Coal India's strategy to rely increasingly on highly
mechanized large opencast mining operations to meet the expected increase in coal demand, and
to raise the efficiency of underground mines through mechanization. The Bank's renewed
involvement in the sector started with the Dudhichua Coal Project, which was designed to
bring modern, state-of-the-art opencast mining technology to the Indian coal industry. In
addition to improving mine design and operating practices, the project provided technical
assistance for a review of coal transport and distribution from mines to power stations. Within a
period two years the Board approved two more projects, the Jharia Coking Coal Project, which
extended these efforts to the Jharia coalfield, India's largest resource of prime coking coal, and
the Coal Mining Coal Quality Improvement Project, which did the same for mining operations
in the Raniganj and Korba coalfields. With these three operations, the Bank had achieved the
primary aim of its assistance to the coal sector, to assist Coal India Ltd. (CIL) in raising the
efficiency of its opencast and uncdarground mining operations in major coal producing areas
through mechanization, improved mine design and better mining practices; and in
implementing measures to improve the quality of coal produced.
Project objectives and description
PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The Jharia Coking Coal Project had two major objectives: One,
to raise the output, recovery and productivity in the field of coking coal production through the
development of



- 3 -
(i) the Block II opencast coal mine, the first large scale opencast mine to be
implemented by BCCL and
(ii) the Pootkee-Bulliary mine, the largest underground mine, in terms of output (3
million tons per year), in India.
And, two, to raise the quality of coking coal supplies to the steel industry through the
development of a sector-wide action program to improve coking coal quality and by expanding
the production of mines yielding high quality coking coal. Both, the output from the Pootkee-
Bulliary mine and from the Block II opencast coal mine were to augment the supplies of high
quality coking coal.
In addition, the project was designed to extend the Bank's assistance into three
important areas:
*    underground mine operating practices (improved procedures for underground
mining using highly mechanized equipment);
*    shaft sinking (improved efficiency through better organization and more modem
equipment); and
*    transportation of stowing materials (study of alternative modes of transportation
of sand for stowing).
PROJECT COMPONENTS. The project comprised the following components
(a)  The development of the Block II opencast coking-coal mine designed to produce 2.5
million tons of raw (unwashed) coking coal per year with an average ash content
of 45% which, after washing, would yield 1,125,000 tons of coking coal with an
ash content of 17%. The mine was designed to have a stripping ratio of 4.1 cubic
meters of overburden to each ton of raw coal, a maximum mining depth of 220
meters and a 17 year production life. The new Madhuband coal washery, for
which no financial support from the Bank was provided under this loan, was to be
built on a nearby site, to process the production from Block II.
(b) The development of Pootkee-Bulliary mine, which was designed to be the largest
(in terms of annual coal output) mechanized underground mine in India, with a
designed production rate of three million tons per year of raw (unwashed) coking
coal similar in quality to that produced by the Block II mine. Two new mine-
shafts were in the process of being sunk with Polish assistance, a dedicated coal
washery was to be constructed and all necessary surface facilities and
infrastructure were to be provided under this project.
Project design and organization
The Jharia project was designed to achieve its twin objectives, to improve the efficiency
of opencast and underground mining and to raise the quality and quantity of coking coal in India



through the development of an opencast and an underground mine with an associated washery.
The underlying assumption was that the technology and operating practices that would be
introduced in these mines through this project would eventually be adopted by other mines.
The Jharia coalfield was chosen because of its reserves of high quality coking coal. The
field, which is India's largest reserve of coking coal and its only indigenous source of 'prime'
coking coal for the steel industry, has been intensively mined for well over a hundred years,
originally using only manual labor in underground and primitive opencast mining. The project
was intended to bring international state-of-the-art technology to both opencast and
underground mines. Opencast mining productivity was to be improved by the introduction of
large electric draglines and shovels, together with larger mining trucks and ancillary
equipment. Underground mining production was to be increased by the introduction and use of
fully mechanized, longwall mining equipment. Additional washing facilities were to be
provided to process the coal produced and technical assistance would be provided.
The Bank's loan of US$248 million financed about 35% of the total cost of the project of
US$696 million with foreign costs of US$245 million and local costs of US$451 million. Bank
financing was limited to that required for the procurement of mining equipment for both mines,
the coal washery at Pootkee Bulliary and some technical consultancy.
Given the objectives, the scope and scale of the project was appropriate, and so was the
timing. India's coal companies were keen to gain access to state-of-the-art mining technology
and operating practices. The decision to make three loans (each aimed at different beneficiary
coal companies) with similar objectives in rather quick succession, takes into account that fact
that these companies are fairly self-contained and operate at quite a distance from each other.
Each of these loans supported projects that were tailored to the unique circumstances of the
beneficiary coal companies. The aim of this lending strategy was to provide CIL's subsidiary
coal companies with a 'heavy dose' of state-of-the-art technology transfer and to support
institutional changes that would improve the efficiency of mining operations and the quality of
coal to consumers.
The beneficiary of the loan was Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL), an operating
subsidiary of Coal India Limited (CIL). While BCCL was responsible for implementation of
the project, CIL were responsible for the procurement of all the mobile equipment. Procurement
of the fixed installations, i.e. coal washing plants, was to be the responsibility of BCCL.
Project implementation
LOAN EFFECTIVENESS AND PROJECT START-UP. The loan was approved on March 7,
1985 and signed on May 10, 1985. It became effective on August 8, 1985.
IMPLEMENTATION (BLOCK II OPENCAST MINE). The Block II Opencast Mine
component of the project was scheduled to have attained its target production of 2.5 million tons
per year (mtpy) during the year 1987/88, even though procurement of Bank-financed equipment
would not have been completed before the end of 1989. Appraisal did not anticipate problems in
the acquisition of the land necessary to allow both the opencast mining and the construction of



surface facilities for the underground mine and expected that solutions would not be difficult to
find if problems were encountered. Construction of the externally financed washer nearby at
Madhuband was scheduled to have been completed by April 1988 to coincide with the
attainment of full coal output from the mine. Annual coal production at Block II has, at the date
of this report, reached only 600,000 tons (less than 25% of the planned tonnage) and it is clear
that construction of the Madhuband washery is still several years from completion. Coal is
presently being washed at BCCL's Dugdha Washery.
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT. Implementation of the project affected
711 families or 4266 persons (assuming a household consists on average of six persons). All of
these families owned land, houses or both on the land required for the mine. No socio-economic
survey had been prepared at the time of appraisal, and there is no record of the number of
landless people that could have been affected by the project. However, BCCL will be asked to
carry out such a survey to assess the remedial rehabilitation needs of all people affected by the
project under the proposed Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project.
As far as the Jharia Coking Coal Project is concerned, BCCL informed the Bank that it
has up to now resettled 160 families (or 960 people). BCCL has built two resettlement sites,
complete with infrastructure facilities and civic amenities, to house all project-affected
people, and provided employment for 247 project affected people. At this point, a deadlock has
been reached since the remaining 551 project-affected families (or 3306 people) refuse to vacate
their houses on the project site unless BCCL offers employment to every person above 18. Making
such an offer would put a heavy financial burden on an already financially poorly performing
project and company. BCCL has a significant overstaffing problem. Considering that jobs with
the coal industry pay about 8-10 times the minimum wage and are very secure, further additions
to BCCL's payroll over and above the company's needs would just add to its losses.
Within the surface area of the mine, seemingly insoluble land acquisition problems,
caused by the continued refusal of landowners and tenants to vacate their land and properties,
have caused considerable fragmentation of the planned mining areas and have necessitated
major redesign of the mine itself.
Clearly, one of the more important lessons to be learnt from the implementation of this
component is that land acquisition and resettlement issues need to be resolved before the Bank
commits itself to support a project. At a minimum, a rehabilitation action plan reflecting the
agreements readhed with project-affected people needs to be available before the Bank becomes
involved in a project. At the time this project was appraised, BCCL could point out to the Bank
that effective mechanisms (in form of CIL's resettlement and rehabilitation policy and the
various legal provisions under which land is acquired in India) were in place to successfully
complete land acquisition and resettlement for this project. The rather successful experience
with land acquisition and resettlement under the Dudhichua Coal Project gave the Bank little
reason to doubt the effectiveness of BCCL's approach to land acquisition. In retrospect, it is easy
to see that landowners and other project-affected people gained through the Bank's
involvement in the project additional leverage to press their demand for employment with
BCCL. (Earnings in the coal industry are about 8-10 times the minimum wage, and most project-
affected people prefer this to any other form of compensation).



IMPLEMENTATION (POOTKEE BULLIARY UNDERGROUND MINE). The mine shafts
for the underground mine at Pootkee Bulliary were sunk and constructed with Polish technical
assistance. During 1989, British Mining Consultants Ltd. carried out a detailed examination of
the engineering geology in order to design and schedule the deployment of the proposed mining
equipment. They found that the geological conditions which were believed at the date of
appraisal to exist and that were essential for the deployment of the six fully mechanized
longwall units planned for the mine did not, in fact, exist. Far in excess of that which had been
anticipated were the multiple geological faulting and large zones of thermally-degraded coal
(jhama). These conditions made it impracticable to deploy more than one (or at most, two) of
the six proposed longwall units, thus severely reducing the annual production capability and
effectively destroying the mine's profitability. Further feasibility studies carried out by BCCL
and the Central Mine Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI), CILs planning subsidiary, failed
to come up with a revised project proposal that would yield finical and economic rates of return
acceptable to the India's Public Investment Board or the Bank.
As a consequence, US$165.3 million of the Bank loan, which was allocated to the
development of the Pootkee Bulliary Mine component were canceled in November 1989, which,
when added to the above-mentioned US$25 million at Block II, reduced the loan by a total of
US$190.3 million to US$57.7 million. Despite the foregoing, BCCL have continued working at
the mine and it is presently credited with producing coal at the rate of about 250,000 tons per
year.
PROCUREMENT. By prior agreement with the Bank, procurement was carried out by a
special cell previously created for the Northern Coalfields' Dudhichua project within the
Coal India Ltd. headquarters in Calcutta and not by the beneficiary, BCCL. Mobile mining
equipment was procured by ICB under Bank guidelines. BCCL staff were to have procured the
Pootkee Bulliary coal washery but, in the event, there was no requirement for them to be
involved as it was no longer required in the wake of the cancellation of the Pootkee Bulliary
component of the loan. Such problems as were encountered in the procurement of goods in the two
components of this project (and in other CIL Bank-financed projects) were caused primarily by
shortcomings in the CIL Notice of Invitation to Tender (NIT) and differences between that and
the Bank's recommended Sample Bidding Document. In addition, recurring problems were
caused by inappropriate and insufficiently precise equipment specifications. Coal India has
also been reluctant to impose penalties for non-observance of contract conditions when this
would involve state-owned suppliers. Combined with the 15% preference allowed, during
evaluation, to domestic manufacturers this situation has resulted in contract awards to
companies which have consistently responded with delayed (and even incomplete) supply and
inferior quality goods being supplied without effective penalty. Recent problems quoted by
BCCL staff involved spare-parts for the Bank-financed mining equipment taking as long as two
years to procure.
Both in this project and in the earlier Dudhichua project it was found that the prices
for some of the mobile mining equipment which had been assumed in the appraisal were far in
excess of those achieved in practice. It is believed that the prior (and still continuing) CIL
practice of negotiating prices for equipment after initial bidding results in artificially high
prices being bid in the first instance, since bidders are always assured of a second chance to



negotiate their prices downwards and obtain an order. Bidders were quick to realize the Bank's
ICB rules and accordingly priced their bids at more realistic and competitive levels.
Project cost and financing
PROJECT COSTS. At the time of appraisal, the project was estimated to cost US$696
million, which consisted of US$271.5 million for the Block H Opencast Mine and US$424.5
million for the Pootkee-Bulliary Underground Mine. After cancellation of the support for the
Pootkee-Bulliary Underground Mine and cancellation of US$25 million of project savings
(BCCL's decision not to procure two walking draglines) under the Block II Opencast Mine the
project cost dropped to US$190.7 million. Correspondingly, the original financing requirements
of US$696 million declined to US$196.1 million based on the cost estimates after the
cancellations.
At the time the project closed actual expenditures (US$127.8) amounted to only about
65% of projected financing requirements. As with the Dudhichua Coal Project, expenditures for
locally procured items had been underestimated at the time of appraisal, mainly because a
larger share of the contracts than anticipated at appraisal were awarded to Indian suppliers
and the ICB process drastically reduced the cost of imported items.
DISBURSEMENTS. From the original loan of US$248 million only US$55.3 million
(equivalent to 22.3%) were disbursed. This was due to the cancellation, in November 1989, of
US$25.0 million, for the non-procurement of two walking draglines for Block II opencast mine,
and US$165.3 million due to the effective abandonment of the Pootkee Bulliary underground
mine component. Of the remaining US$57.7 million, US$2.4 million was canceled as unused at
loan closing.
Project results
ATTAINMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The original project objectives were not
achieved. The Pootkee Bulliary underground mine component had to be canceled when adverse
mining conditions, sufficiently bad to prevent deployment of the state-of-the-art equipment
which had been designed into the mine, were found to exist. The Block II opencast mine, due
primarily to virtually insuperable land acquisition problems and, secondarily, to the
underground mine fires, is currently producing only about a quarter of its design output tonnage
and is unlikely ever to produce more than a half of its design tonnage. In consequence, the
objective of introducing high volume output of prime coking coal from a large-scale underground
mine was lost and the demonstration of the effectiveness of modem opencast mining techniques
could not be shown, due to difficulties which were beyond the capacity of the mining company
to overcome.
CAUSES OF THE VARIANCES BETWEEN PLANNED AND ACTUAL RESULTS. In the
circumstances, little or no positive impact could have been achieved in the area. In retrospect,
too much was taken for granted at appraisal, in respect of both the geological conditions at
Pootkee Bulliary underground mine and the ability of the mining company to deal with the



- 8 -
resettlement of project-affected people residing within the surface area of the Block II opencast
mine.
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN. In light of the cancellation of the
Pootkee-Bulliary Underground Mine component, only the financial and economic rates of return
for the Block II Opencast Mine were estimated. A comparison of the actual financial (6.9%) and
economic rates 38.6%) of return with the projections at appraisal shows a significant decline in
the financial rate (12% at appraisal), but an improvement in the economic rate of return
(28.2%). This result is due in part to the fact that only part of the projected efficiency gains
were achieved and the divergence between economic prices of coal (based on imported
Australian coal) and the prices BCCL realizes.
Project Sustainability
Based on BCCL's current projections the Opencast Block II mine will be operated for
another 15 years, until 2009. Assuming the coal company continues to succeed in keeping the
mine-fire, that currently affects operations, under control, the project is expected to continue to
yield modest financial and satisfactory economic returns. (See financial and economic
cost/benefit streams in Part III). In addition to controlling the mine fire, the continued
commercial viability of the opencast mine depends on whether CIL will continue to be able to
pass increase in wages for miners on to consumers through price increases. This was the practice
in the past. The Government has indicated that it will abolish price controls on coal.
In order to be in a better position to deal with high economic, environmental and social
cost of mine fires, BCCL is receiving technical assistance under a credit approved in December
1992. The Government has sought the Bank's assistance in identifying experts that could work
with BCCL to find ways to extinguish or at least contain these fires. The fire that hampers
operations in the Opencast Block II mine will benefit from these efforts.
Critical for the continued success of the project will be the outcome of BCCL's efforts to
resettle the people that up to now have refused to move to the resettlement site in the
expectation of eventually getting jobs with the coal company. Under the proposed Coal Sector
Rehabilitation Project, which currently under preparation, the resettlement and compensation
issues will be revisited; if BCCL's resettlement and compensation actions are found to be
deficient in one way or another, a remedial action plan will be prepared.
Bank Performance
The clear positive potential of Dudhichua, the previous Bank-financed, Indian coal
mining project, was probably a factor in leading Bank staff to an over-optimism regarding the
implementation of this project. In retrospect, the assumptions made by the Central Mine
Planning and Design Institute (CMPDI), the planning subsidiary of Coal India Ltd., regarding
the technical merits of the Pootkee Bulliary underground mine were based on inadequate
investigation. The further investigation carried out by consultants during project
implementation, which was supposed only to define the optimum deployment of the proposed



-9-
state-of-the-art fully mechanized longwall equipment, instead revealed that technically
acceptable conditions for deployment of more than one or two of the six units proposed was not
possible. Revised financial analyses showed rates of return unacceptable to either the Indian
Public Investment Board or to the Bank. That component was therefore canceled. In addition,
assumptions regarding the resettlement of the population residing within the area of the
proposed Block II opencast mine were probably influenced by the ease of resettlement
experienced at Dudhichua. The assumptions were proved erroneous; at loan closure only 22% of
the potential oustees had been resettled. The latter experience has underlined the need for the
Bank to more closely examine future project assumptions regarding land acquisition and
resettlement issues.
During supervision, Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (BCCL) were allowed as much freedom to
vary the equipment configuration as they requested. In addition, the difficulty of obtaining
timely spare-parts for the Bank-financed mining equipment led to allowing BCCL to obtain
larger packages of spare-parts when they became available together with what CIL terms
'float-assemblies', i.e. complete spare diesel engines, complete spare transmission assemblies,
etc., to ensure the availability of mining equipment under adverse maintenance conditions.
Additional lessons to be learned from the implementation of the Jharia Coking Coal
Project include:
*   the need for standard bidding documents, in order to minimize the possibility of
disputes and misprocurement (CIL has agreed to use standard bidding documents
under the forthcoming Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project);
*   the desirability of providing CrL with frequent and timely advice on procurement
issues, in order to avoid lengthy procurement-related implementation delays (CIL
has agreed to use the services of an expatriate company specializing in
procurement for the preparation of the technical specifications of bid documents
and the evaluation of bids under the forthcoming Coal Sector Rehabilitation
Project); and
*   the need to consider in the estimation of project cost that procurement under ICB
will reduce the cost of items procured under this method by about 30%.
Borrower Performance
The beneficiaries of the project, CIL and BCCL, performed well, bearing in mind the difficulties
under which they are operating. They were generally responsive to recommendations from the
Bank, and made every effort to comply with covenants.
Project Relationships
The relationships between CIL/BCCL and the Bank have been consistently good
throughout the project. The frank and open discussions which took place during supervision



- 10 -
missions resulted in satisfactory solutions in spite of differences in viewpoints which occurred
from time to time; they helped Bank staff to understand better and appreciate the environment
and constraints under which CIL's and BCCL's management are operating; and they provided
an opportunity to convey to CIL and BCCL the rationale for the positions taken by the Bank.
Consulting Services
Only two consultant companies were involved in the project, ILF, to carry out a study of
transporting sand for stowing purposes in the now-canceled Pootkee Bulliary mine, and British
Mining Consultants Ltd., to design the deployment and use of longwall mining equipment in the
same mine. Both companies performed satisfactorily.
Project Documentation and Data
The Bank's documentation proved invaluable to the project, although much of the
equipment procurement listings had to be modified due to cancellations and variations brought
about by physical circumstances. Experience in writing this PCR has shown clearly that
preparation for a PCR should begin at appraisal or soon afterwards, when data specifically
destined for use in the PCR should be required to be included by Borrowers in their regular
reports to the Bank. A quarterly report pro-forma should be decided upon at completion of the
appraisal report and included in that report for the benefit of Borrower and Bank.



- 11 -
PART II
PROIECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Preface
During early 1980s CIL sought the World Bank assistance for Jharia Coking Coal
Project owned by one of its subsidiaries Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. (BCCL), the major producer of
prime coking coal in India. The objective of the loan was to increase the output and to improve
the recovery and productivity in the field of coking coal production through development of a
large scale opencast mine in Block II and development of a large highly mechanized
underground mine in Pootkee-Bulliary. It also envisaged to raise the quality of coking coal
supply to the steel plant by construction of washeries linked to these projects. The Bank's loan
of US$248 million (30% of the estimated total cost of the project) was limited to the
procurement of mining equipment for both the mines and coal washery at Pootkee-Bulliary and
also for some technical assistance.
Project Implementation
Block II. During the implementation of the project two major difficulties were
encountered. The problem of land acquisition and resettlement became serious as the
inhabitants insisted on employment of each eligible project affected adult person. As BCCL is
having surplus manpower it could absorb such people only in phases depending on the
requirement and other financial constraints. This has put a heavy financial burden on BCCL
which has significantly overstaffing as well as financial problem. As a result around 500
project affected families are yet to vacate their houses on the project site. After considering all
associated problems certain area of the mine-take has been excluded from mining activities for
the time being. The willing people are being gradually resettled in properly developed
resettlement sites which have provisions of modem amenities.
The project also faced another uaforese".n problem. While implementing it was
found that the extent of fire affected area was more extensive than earlier envisaged.
Naturally certain advance action was required to deal with the fire before the mining could be
extended to those areas.
Due to these problems the implementation was delayed and the project was
closed one year behind schedule. Action are in hand to resettle the project affected people as
soon as feasible and also to improve the output to the optimum level under the given situation.
Pootkee-Bulliary. The mine shafts at Pootkee-Bulliary was constructed with the
assistance of Polish experts. During the exploitation underground it was experienced that there
was wide variation between the pre-project geological assessment and the actual. Most of the
mine take was very adversely affected by dikes, faults, burning of seams, etc. Large scale



- 12 -
introduction of mechanized longwall was not feasible. British Mining Consultants were
engaged to carry out a detailed study and CMPDI and BCCL also made the reassessment of the
geomining conditions. It was concluded that large scale mechanized mining methods could not
be introduced though earlier envisaged. With other alternative mining technique the targeted
production of 3 mtpy also could not be achieved. After making a tailed techno-economic
reassessment it was concluded that with this modifications the mine operations became
economically unviable. As a consequence, US$165.3 million of the Bank loan was canceled in
November 1989. However, BCCL is continuing with the modified mining method and at present
producing around 0.3 mtpy
Comments on Part I
The analysis made by the Bank under Part I is quite comprehensive and has
covered all important aspects. We generally agree with the conclusion made by the Bank.
Cancellation of Part of the Loan
As already said above, the Jharia Coking Coal has two components out of which
Pootkee-Bulliary underground mine and the Pootkee washery had to be canceled. As a
consequence the Bank loan of US$165.3 million in respect of Pootkee-Bulliary underground
project including the washery was canceled. Due to the change in mine area and mine plan in
Block II the equipment requirement was scaled down. Further, while finalizing the purchase
of opencast equipment for Block II following ICB procedures it was found that the quoted price
was on the lower side than the price estimated earlier. As a result amount of US$25 million
was not required and hence was surrendered. The overall position is given in the table below:
Component-wise allocation of loan in US$ million
Original    Canceled      Revised
Block II Opencast Mine           80.7         25.0          55.7
Pootkee-Bulliary U/G including   165.3       165.3
Washery
Technical Assistance              2.0          -             -
Totals                           248.0       190.0          57.7
Environmental issues
Block II. This opencast project is very much adversely affected by the mine fire in
old opencast workings. Moreover the old underground workings within the mine take have also
been extensively affected by mine fire. Thus the combustion products have posed serious
environmental problems. It is gratifying to note that the project has persistently dealt with
this problem to a very great extent and the major fires are now under control by adopting
effective fire control measures. A fire control project has also been approved by World Bank
(Jharia Mine Fire Control Technical Assistance Project, Cr. 2450-IN) for financing and this



- 13 -
study will also help the project to deal wilh the fire remove effectively. The land reclamation
is also taking place in a systematic manner as the fires are dealt with in proper sequence. It is
anticipated that the project will be able to deal with the fire effectively and one of the very
serious environmental problems wiUl be dealt with. Afforestation has been done on a large scale
and all the rehabilitation sites and the infrastructure sites are now adequately protected by
plantation. An organization with experienced engineers has been set up to deal with the
problem of fire and other environmental issues. Proper monitoring system bas been introduced.
However, the problem being of very serious nature it will require more intensive action to keep
all these adverse affects under control.
Resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected people
Resettlement and rehabilitation issues have been dealt with adequately in the
report of the Bank and we agree with the same. Though the problem is very serious in this
particular project but with consistent efforts made by the project it is expected that major part
of the problem will be resolved. With the new R&R policy of the CIL and by setting up a
proper organization for implementation and monitoring it is expected that such problem could
be resolved in time in other projects.
Procurement Procedures
For procurement of equipment for Bank financed projects, "Notices Inviting
Tenders" (NIT) of CIL were prepared normally on the basis of Bank's sample bidding document.
Bid documents were issued to the prospective bidders only after obtaining World Bank's 'no
objection'. Any changes/modifications in the bidding documents also had the World Bank's
approval. CIL followed the Bank's procedure for pre-review (Contracts valuing above US$3
million) and post review (contracts valuing within US$3 million ) of the cases by the World
Bank.
For procurement under World Bank loan CIL has benefited much. Indian suppliers
also could quote lower price (about 40-50%) because, as per the policy of GOI such purchases fall
under "deemed export" category. Under such category, manufacturers are not to pay custom duty
for the import content of the goods and get bac'. excise duty for ir'.igenous component.
All the procedures introduced by the Bank are followed strictly. CIL did not
hesitate in imposing penalty on dhe defaulting suppliers even if they are state owned like
Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) or Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML). CIL has
already recovered 10% penalty from HEC for delayed supply of dragline for Dudhichua
project. CIL has also not faced any interference from the Ministerial levels of Government of
India in procurement activities and payments.



- 14 -
C., mments on Part III
Report is in order.
Bank Performance
Both the projects were of difficult nature as they encountered unforeseen
problems. In dealing with these problems highly professional Bank's appraisal missions were
of great assistance to the project.
Borrower's Performance
Coal India Limited generally agrees with the assessment made by the Bank.
Lessons Learned
By implementing a project of this size faced with mining, technical, social
problems, with active guidance and consistent monitoring by the Bank officials, the project has
benefited in the following areas:
a) Project planning and monitoring,
b) design and engineering of equipment and construction,
c) effective bidding procedures,
d) environment management., and
e) resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected people.



- 15 -
PART TTI
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank loans
Loan Number    Year of       Purpose of Project       Status        Comments
Project Title   Approval
Dudhichua Coal   1985    To continue the transfer of   Completed    See Project
Project, Loan             technology for highly     March 31, 1993   Completion
2393-IN                   mechanized opencast mines                 Report for this
project
Coal NMining and    1987   To continue the transfer of   Under
Coal Quality              technology for highly     implementation.
Improvement               mechanized opencast mines.
Project, Loan             The project focused on a
2796-IN                   mine in the Korba coalfield
(belonging to Southeastem
Coalfields Ltd.) and a mine
in the Raniganj coalfield
belonging to (Eastern
Coalfields Ltd.)
NTPC Power        1993   The project comprises:     Under           The project is
Gation a)          G.                               implementation. located in the
a) Generation of Capacity
Project, Loan             Addition; b) Private sector               Singrauli
3632-IN                   component (joint venture                  coalfield, and
component~~~~~~~~ue coalt fromre
operations); and c)                      uses coal from
Environments'                            the Dudhichua
strengthening and                        coal mine
resettlement and
A ehabilitation



- 16
B. Project Timetable
Date Planned     Date Revised      Date Actual
Identification                     September 1982                    October 1982
Preparation
Appraisal                          January 1983     March 1983       September 1984
Loan Negotiations                                   January 1985     January 1985
Board Approval                                      March 1985       March 7, 1985
Loan Signing                                                         May 10, 1985
Loan Effectiveness                                                   August 8, 1985
Loan Closing Date                                                    March 31, 1992
First Extension of the Closing Date                                  December 31,1992
Completion                                                           April 30, 1992
COMMENTS. Almost two years elapsed between the time the project had been identified
and the date of effectiveness. While this may somewhat exceed the time required for the
preparation of similar projects, it has to be kept in mind that this was the Bank's first project with
a new implementing agency, Bharat Coking Coal Ltd.
C. Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
US$ Million
12&    1987   198    1 1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Appraisal Estimate            0.6   55.2  108.8  180.0  202.4  238.6  248.0  248.0
Actual                        0.0   21.4   32.6   42.8   50.8   52.4   52.6   55.3
Actual as % of                0.0   38.8   30.0   23.8   25.1   22.0   21.2   22.3
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement: April 29, 1993



- 17 -
250.
AppraWsal estiinate
2100
Cancellation of
$190.3 miuiot (1989k
150
100i
/    .    - . .  - .  ~~Actual     -.:
50
Closn
/ ~~~ . - _ v ' ......... . ~~~~~~~~date 
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4a
1985/86   1986/87      1987/88      1988/89:     1989190      1990/91      1991/92      1992/93
Follow-on Project
Name: Coal Mining and Coal Quality Improvement Project
Loan No.: 2796-IN
Loan amount:US$340 mnillion equivalent
Date of Board approval: April 21, 1987



- 18 -
D. Project Implementation
Block II Opencast Mine              Pootkee  lia
Underground Mine
Projections at Appraisal (on an annual basis)
Year      Overburden   Raw Coal       Washed       Raw Coal      Washed
Removal    Production   (million tons)  Production   (million tons)
(million m3) (mimillion tonsmi o        million tons)
1984/85       1.40         .20           0.09          0.01         0.003
1985/86       1.40         .40           0.18          0.13         0.13
1986/87       2.85          1.50         0.68          0.26         0.18
1987/88       5.95          2.50         1.13          0.37         0.20
1988/89       9.50          2.50         1.13          0.40         0.20
1989/90       9.50          2.50         1.13          0.41         0.35
1990/91       9.50          2.50         1.13          0.70         0.97
1991/92       9.50          2.50         1.13          1.94         1.22
1992/93       9.50          2.50         1.13         2.460         1.45
1993/94       9.50          2.50         1.13         2.942         1.45
1994/95       9.50          2.50         1.13          2.92         1.45
1995/96       9.50          2.50         1.13          3.00         1.45
Actual Achievements (on an annual basis)
1984/85       0.51          0.04         NIL           0.07         NIL
1985/86       0.82          0.14         NIL           0.06         NIL
1986/87       1.90          0.44         NIL           0.02         NIL
1987/88       2.96          0.80         NIL           0.04         NIL
1988/89       4.87          1.02         NIL           0.04         NIL
1989/90       5.10          1.22         NIL           0.11         NIL
1990/91       5.23          0.93         NIL           0.22         NIL
1991/92       5.11          0.61         NIL           0.26         NIL
1992/93       5.44          0.66         NIL           0.29         NIL



- 19 -
E. Project costs and financing
Project Cost
Rs million
Estimated Cost            Actual Cost
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Equipment and spares               77.3   138.1   215.5   71.3    34.3    105.6
Land and civil works               47.7    2.5    50.2    5.5        0.0      5.5
Engineering and Training            5.7     0.0     5.7     0.0      0.0      0.0
Preoperating Expenses               9.0     0.7     9.7    10.2    0.0       10.2
Washery                            76.2    31.8    108.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
Furniture, Vehicles, etc.           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.3     0.0      0.3
Technical assistance                0.0     2.0     2.0     0.0      1.4      1.4
Duties and taxes                   94.5    0.0    94.5    0.0        0.0      0.0
Base cost                          310.4   175.1   485.5   87.3    35.7    123.0
Physical contingencies             24.2    10.4    34.7    0.0       0.0      0.0
Price escalation                   100.2   58.1    158.3    0.0      0.0      0.0
Installed cost                     434.9   243.6   678.4   87.3    35.7    123.0
Working capital                    10.4    1.2    11.6    4.8        0.0     4.8
Project cost                       445.3   244.7   690.0   92.1    35.7    127.8
Interest during construction        6.0     0.0     6.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Front-end fee
Total financing required           451.3   244.7   696.0   92.1    35.7    127.8
Notes: 'Actual cost' include duties, taxes and price escalation under the respective categories of
expenditures. 'Interest during construction' is included in 'pre-operating expenditures'.



- 20 -
Project Financing Plan
US$ nmillion
Original      Revised        Actual
A. Equity                                     348.0          98.0          63.9
Government of India                           215.8          N.A.           N.A.
CIL cash generation                           132.2          N.A.           N.A.
B. Long-term debt                             348.0          98.0          63.9
IBRD                                          248.0          57.7          55.3
Government of India                            85.8          26.1           2.5
ODA                                            14.2          14.2           6.1
Total financing                               696.0         196.1         127.8
Note: The revised projection was made after Coal India had decided to cancel US$190.3 million of
the Bank loan.
Allocation of the Bank Loan
US$ rnillion
Category              Original            Revised              Actual
AmQunt  liercent  Animunt  Percent   Amount  Percent
Mining Equipment           169.5     68.4      50.0      86.6      54.5      98.5
Washery                    60.8      24.5       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Technical assistance        2.0       0.8       2.0       3.5       0.8       1.5
Front-end fee               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Unallocated                15.7       6.3       5.7       9.9       0.0       0.0
Total                     248.0    100.0       57.7     100.0      55.3     100.0
Note: The revised projection was made after Coal India had decided to cancel US$190.3 million of
the Bank loan.



- 21 -
F. Project Results
1. Economic impact
Operating Costs
Rs per ton
Projection    Actuals
1984/85 terms
84/85    89/90    89/90
Wages                                    94.7     76.5      89.8
Stores                                   27.8     28.3      28.5
Power                                    11.1     11.2      13.4
Other operating expenses                 20.4     18.8      27.0
Operating costs                         154.0    134.8    158.7
Depreciation                             17.3     21.9      18.8
Interest                                 16.5     19.9      14.3
Total Production Cost                   187.8    176.6    191.8



- 22 -
Economic Cost /Benefit Streams
Rs million 1983/84 terms
Fiscal Year  Production   Capital   Operating   Working   Net sales   Net flows
cost       cost      capital    revenues
1984/85       0.04      190.4        5.6                    16.6      -179.4
1985/86       014        98.6       29.5                    58.8       -69.3
1986/87       0.44      280.2       40.2         3.6       180.1      -143.8
1987/88       0.80      306.0       61.8         7.2       330.8       -44.2
1988/89       1.02      -40.1       99.3        12.5       422.3       350.6
1989/90       1.22      161.7      112.1         4.3       505.1       227.0
1990/91       0.93       58.9       60.4       -17.2       383.4       281.4
1991/92       0.61       30.3       49.3        -3.7       253.8       177.9
1992/93       0.66       66.7       48.4        -0.3       273.7       158.9
1993/94       0.87        7.2       71.6         7.7       360.2       273.7
1994/95       2.00       64.3      149.7        26.0       828.0       588.0
1995/96       2.50       64.9      172.6         7.6      1035.0       789.9
1996/97       2.50       19.7      172.6                  1035.0       842.7
1997/98       2.50       50.8      172.6                  1035.0       811.6
1998/99       2.50       10.7      172.6                  1035.0       851.7
1999/00       2.50       19.0      172.6                  1035.0       843.4
2000/01       2.50       15.2       172.6                 1035.0       847.2
2001/02       2.50     -236.2      172.6       -47.7      1035.0      1146.4
Economic rate of return: 38.55%
Notes: The financial cost streams (see the following table) have been converted into economic cost
streams using the following conversion factors: Indigenous capital goods: 0.8; indigenous capital
goods with import content: 0.84; revenue expenses: 0.72; Australian coal was used to compute the
economic border price for coal.



- 23 -
2. Financial impact
Financial Cost /Benefit Streams
Rs million 1983/84 terms
Fiscal Year  Production   Capital   Operating   Working    Net sales   Net flows
0Qt         os        capital    revenues
1984/85       0.04      224.0        7.8                     7.0      -224.8
1985/86       0.14      116.0       40.9                    24.0      -132.9
1986/87       0.44      329.6       55.8         5.0        81.5      -308.9
1987/88       0.80      359.9       85.9        10.0       147.2      -308.7
1988/89       1.02      -47.1       137.9       17.3       205.4        97.4
1989/90       1.22      190.2      155.7         6.0       229.8      -122.1
1990/91       0.93       69.2       83.9       -24.0       162.5        33.4
1991/92       0.63       35.6       68.5        -5.1       116.4        17.4
1992/93       0.61       78.5       67.2        -0.4       129.6       -15.6
1993/94       0.66        8.5       99.4        10.7       175.7        57.0
1994/95       0.87       80.4      207.9        36.1       414.0        89.6
1995/96       2.00       81.1      239.7        10.6       517.5       186.1
1996/97       2.50       24.7      239.7                   517.5       253.1
1997/98       2.50       63.5      239.7                   517.5       214.3
1998/99       2.50       13.4      239.7                   517.5       264.4
1999/00       2.50       23.8      239.7                   517.5       254.0
2000/01       2.50       19.0       239.7                  517.5       258.8
2001/02       2.50     -295.3       239.7      -66.3       517.5       639.3
Financial rate of retum: 6.91%
Comparison of economic and financial rates of return
Projections at    CurTent
appraisal    projections
Jharia Block II
Economic rate of return        28.2          38.6
Financial rate of return       12.0           6.9



- 24 -
The following table shows a comparison of projected and actual trends of Indian coal prices:
Average coal prices in India, 1984/85 to 1989/90
Rs per ton
Indian fiscal year     Projections a/    Actual
1984/85                192.2         188.2
1985/86               212.8          190.9
1986/87               230.9          202.8
1987/88               250.5          215.0
1988/89               271.8          252.3
1989/90               294.9          273.7
1990/91               320.0          268.2
1991/92               345.0          306.9
1992/93               366.0          362.9
Notes: a/ coal price projections at the time of appraisal.
3. Social impact
LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT. Implementation of the project affected 711
families or 4266 persons (assuming a household consists on average of six persons). All of these
families owned land, houses or both on the land required for the mine. No socio-economic survey
had been prepared at the time of appraisal, and there is no record of the number of landless people
that could have been affected by the project. However, BCCL will be asked to carry out such a
survey to assess the remedial rehabilitation needs of all people affected by the project under the
proposed Coal Sector Rehabilitation Project.
As far as the Jharia Coking Coal Project is concerned, BCCL informed the Bank that it has
up to now resettled 160 families (or 960 people). BCCL has built two resettlement sites, complete
with infrastructure facilities and civic amenities, to house all project-affected people, and
provided employment for 247 project affected people. At this point, a deadlock has been reached
since the remaining 551 project-affected familics (or 3306 people) refuse to vacate their houses on
the project site unless BCCL offers employment to every person above 18. Making such an offer
would put a heavy financial burden on an already financially poorly performing project and
company. BCCL has a significant overstaffing problem. Considering that jobs with the coal
industry pay about 8-10 times the minimum wage and are very secure, further additions to BCCL's
payroll over and above the company's needs would just add to its losses.
Within the surface area of the mine., seemingly insoluble land acquisition problems, caused
by the continued refusal of landowners and tenants to vacate their land and properties, have caused
considerable fragmentation of the planned mining areas and have necessitated major redesign of
the mine itself.
Clearly, one of the more important lessons to be learnt from the implementation of this
component is that land acquisition and resettlement issues need to be resolved before the Bank
commits itself to support a project. At a minimum, a rehabilitation action plan reflecting the



- 25 -
agreements reached with project-affected people needs to be available before the Bank becomes
involved in a project. At the time this project was appraised, BCCL could point out to the Bank that
effective mechanisms (in form of CIL's resettlement and rehabilitation policy and the various legal
provisions under which land is acquired in India) were in place to successfully complete land
acquisition and resettlement for this project. The rather successful experience with land acquisition
and resettlement under the Dudhichua Coal Project gave the Bank little reason to doubt the
effectiveness of BCCL's approach to land acquisition. In retrospect, it is easy to see that landowners
and other project-affected people gained through the Bank's involvement in the project additional
leverage to press their demand for employment with BCCL. (Earnings in the coal industry are about
8-10 times the minimum wage, and most project-affected people prefer this to any other form of
compensation). Thus, CL's decision to seek the Bank's support for this component before concluding
the land acquisition and resettlement process was a significant, if not the major factor behind the
implementation delays and unsatisfactory results of this project component. (This was again borne
out under one of the project components of a follow-up project, the Coal Mining and Coal Ouality
Improvement Project. Under this project the development of the Sonepur-Bazari opencast mine was
delayed by more than six years due to land acquisition problems).
4. Studies
As part of the project the following studies had been prepared:



- 26 -
Study          Purpose as Defined at    Status        Impact of study
Appraiaal
Shaft Sinking       To assist CIL and BCCL   Completed    The shaft sinking and
in particular, to improve           armouring operations
the design, engineering             have been conducted
and implementation of               with assistance and
shafts 500-600 m deep               guidance of KOPEX,
Poland. The manpower
at the project has been
trained and the
experiences have been
documented for future
reference
Management          To assist CIL group to    Completed    Further geological
Practices in Moonidih improve the operational            design of Pootkee
Mine and Planning,   efficiency of fully                 Bulliary was carried out
design and          mechanized underground               based on which the
management of fully   mines, with particular             project was redesigned
mechanized, Pootkee  reference to the Pootkee
Bulliary Mine       Bulliary and Moonidih
mines in the Jharia
coalfield
Alternative modes of To determine the most   Completed    The cost benefit analysis
transporting sand to   economic and technically          of various modes of
Jharia coalfield from  feasible mode of                 transport was researched
Maithan and         transporting sand to be              and this study will help
Durgapur            used for stowing in                 in investment decisions
Jharia coalfield                    as and when the need
arises
Study of disposal   To assess erLvironmental  Incomplete   The study area for
project Mahduband   impact and plan for                  dumping was not
Washery             dumping rejects from the             identified; the washery
washery                             project was not
completed



- 27 -
G.Status of Covenants
Agreement  Section                     Description of Covenants                        Status
LA          2.02(b)   GOI to maintain special account in dollars                      Complied
LA          3.01(b)   GOI relending to CIL under terms acceptable to the Bank (not less  Complied
than 13.25%; repayment 15 years, including 5 years grace period
LA          3.05      Borrower will initiate, by June 30 1986, a shaft sinking study: ex-  Complied
change views with the Bank and implement study recommendations
LA          3.06      Borrower shall issue all necessary approvals for carrying out   Complied
Pootkee Bulliary washery
LA          3.07      Audit: special accounts (due within 6 months of fiscal year end)  Complied
Amended
LA          4.01      Borrower shall periodically review coal prices t ensure CIL     Complied
financial viability and progressive mobilization of financial
resources to cover an increasing part of coal sector capital
expenditure
PA          2.02      CIL to onlend to BCCL under financial agreement                 Complied
PA          2.07      CIL/BCCL to ensure project accords due regards to               Complied
ecological/environmental safety standards
PA          2.08      BCCL to submit schedules for housing and services by June       Complied
30/December 31 1988 and carry out that schedule
PA          2.09      BCCL to provide training report for part B(iii) of projects on July 1,  Complied
annually
PA          2.11      BCCL to take actions to secure all land for project           Complied: land
acquisition problems
persist
PA          2.12      BCCL to complete implemenution manuals                          Complied
PA          2.13      BCCL to carry out further geotechnical testing on Block 11      Complied
PA          2.14      BCCL to review studies with Bank and implement findings         Complied
PA          3.03      CIL/BCCL to take out insurance in amounts consistent with       Complied
appropriate practice
PA          4.02      Audit: CIL and BCCL (due within nine months for CIL and six     Complied
months for BCCL)
PA          4.03      CIL to ensure consolidated intemal cash generation is at least 1.3  Complied
times debt service requirements. CIL/subsidiaries not to incur debt
if debt/equity ratio exceeds 60/40. CIL/subsidiaries maintain a
ratio of current assets/liabilities of not less than 1.2



- 28 -
H. Use of Bank resources
Stage of Project   Month  Number   Day   Specialization  Performanc    Type of Problen
Qcle         /Year      of        in      Represented       Ratin
Field                      statuLs/b
Persons
Through appraisal
Appraisal through
Board approval
Board approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1       Oct 85      3        1 1    Economist             2        Slow progress.
Engineer                       Pootkee Bulliary 9
Consultant                     months behind
schedule
Supervision 2       Feb 86      3        19    Economist              2
Engineer
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 3       Aug 86      2        10    Engineers (2)          2        Slippage on sand and
stowing and in main
shaft sinking activities
Land acquisibon and
procurement delays
Super-vision 4      Dec 86      2        12    Engineers (2)          2
Supervision 5      May 87       4        13    Economist              2
Engineer
Procurement
Financial
Analyst
Supervision 6       Oct 87      5        21    Economist              2
Engineers (2)
Financial
Analyst
Consultant
Supervision 7       Jun 88      4        22    Economist              2
Engineers (2)
Financial
Analyst



- 29 -
Stage of Project   Month  Number   Days  Specialization  Perforrnance   Type of Problems
Cycle        /Yea        of       i       Represented       Rating
Field                     status/b
Persons
Supervision 8       Jan 89     1        14    Engineer              2        Land Acquisition
delays
Non compliance with
financial covenants
Supervision 9      Aug 89      5        15    Economist              I
Engineers (2)
Financial
Analyst
Consultant
Supervision 10      Feb 90     5        30)   Economist              I
Engineers (2)
Financial
Analyst
Project Officer
Supervision 11     Aug90       3        22    Economnist             1
Engineers (2)
Supervision 12      Feb 91     3        14    Econornist             1
Engineers (2)
Supervision 13      Oct 91     4        16    Economist              I
Engineers (2)
Operations
Analyst
Supervision 14      Jul 92     4        18    Economist              I
Engineers (2)
Operations
Analyst
Supervision 15     Mar 93      3        16    Engineers (2)          1       Land acquisition
Operations                    Equipment stoppages
Analyst                       (erratic power supply)
Spontaneous
combustion of mine
face
COMMENTS. Overall, the scope and intensity of supervision seemed to be adequate, in
particular in light of the considerable amount of technical assistance. Management at the
subsidiary level and the project site were interested in the comments made by Bank supervision
missions and receptive to their recommendations.



- 30 -
Annex 1.1 COAL INDIA LIMITED: INCOME STATEMENTS
COAL INDIA LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENT 80/81-92193
Rs million
80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93
Coal production
(rnillion tons)
Underground production          61      63     61      61     61      60      60     59      61     60      57      57      58
Openpitproduction               40      46     54      60     70      74      85    100    110    119    133    147    153
Total production               101    109    115    121    131    134    145    159    171    179    190    204    211
Saleableproduction              94    102    110    116    126    129    139    154    165    171    184    200    207
Oms (ton): ug                    I       I      I       I       1      1       1      1       1       1      1       1       1
Oc                        2      2       2      2       2      2       2       3      3       3      3       4       4
Total                        I      1       1      1       1       1      1       1      1       1       1      1       1
Ems(rs)                         50      55     59      79     85      91    107    108    140    146    154    171    202
Revenues
Averageprice(rs/ton)         121    138    156    160    188    191    203    215    252    274    268    307    363
Sales revenues             11,313  14,018  17,064  18,624  23,636 24,564 28,176 33,033 41,595 46,868 49,360 61,357  75,122
Contributiontocpra             0       0    428   -428        0    484    298   -598   -366         0      0       0    416
Total revenues             11,313  14,018  16,636  19,051  23,636 24,079  27,878 33,632 41,961  46,868 49,360  61,357 74,706
Production costs
Salaries & wages            6,860   7,650  8,542  11,708  12,620  13,320  15,497  15,976 20,610  21,208 22,253  24,788 29,008
Overhead                     537    589    753    940    887   1,083   1,347   1,536   1,722  2,208   2,544   2,826   3,653
Stores                      1,524  2,056  2,602   3,015   3,336   3,800  4,419  4,998   5,705   6,738   7,739   9,302  11,076
Power                        541    747    968   1,187   1,437   1,705   2,087   2,360   2,734   3,167   3,707  4,433   5,284
Transportation               293    404    462    452    503    511    803   1,405   1,048   1,323   1,123   1,577   2,120
Other costs                  429    681    871   1,043   1,359   2,461   2,190   2,510   3,230   2,863   3,824   4,679   5,506
Total operating costs      10,183  12,127  14,198  18,344  20,141  22,879  26,342 28,785  35,050 37,505 41,189 47,604 56,646
Depreciation                 735    991   1,344   1,716   2,070   2,500   2,935   3,489   4,014   4,429   5,364   6,274   7,264
Interest                     623    805   1,110   1,324   1,733   2,158   1,501   2,921   2,600   3,402   4,467  5,331   6,841
Totalproductioncosts       11,540  13,922  16,652  21,384  23,944  27,537 30,778  35,195  41,664  45,337 51,019 59,210  70,752
Productioncost/ton(rs)       123    137    152    184    191    214    222    229    253    265    277    296    342
Other income                  -59    -43    -42   -136   -526   -629   -455   -708   -539   -762   -650   -265   -620
Cmpdiprofitbeforetax           3       4      5      12      10     16      12     14      24      24     21      21      25
Tax on cnpdi profit                            1      2       3              4       5      4       6      5       5       6
Cmpdi profit after tax         3       4       5     10       7     16       8     10      20      18     16      17      19
Profitfromis.Yard/dcc                                31      44     28      26     11      18       8   -243   -233   -447
Profit before tax            -284     56    -53  -2,427   -781  -4,042  -3,317  -2,247   -199    801  -2,532   1,671   2,913
Tax                            0       0      5       2      3       0       4     14      38     41       5       5       6
Net income                   -284     56    -58  -2,429   -783  -4,042  -3,321  -2,260   -236    760  -2,536   1,666   2,907



- 31 -
COAL INDIA LIMITED
BALANCE SHEETS 80/81-92193
Rs million
80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/8  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/9
Assets:
Cash&bank                     773    727  1,075  2,352  1,218  1,187  1,417  1,424  1,617  2,299  2,917  1,463  1,866
Coal stock                  2,518  2,918  3,605  4,179  5,242  4,702  5,302  5,805  8,042  8,923 10,215 14,281  16,911
Stores & spares              1,571  2,247  2,821  3,425  3,764  4,030  4,413  4,748  5,062  5,713  6,582  6,953  7,556
Sundry debtors               1,340  1,76B  2,224  3,758  3,731  3,950  4,608  7,227  9,885 14,419 14,338 13,903 20,845
Others                        305    519    658    789  1,250  1,386  3,501  3,828  3,750  4,328  5,664  6,478  7,017
Total cur.Assets            6,507  8,179 10,383 14,502 15,205 15,255 19,241 23,032 28,356 35,682 39,716 43,078 54,195
Gross fixed assets         12,393 15,390 20,862 26,144 32,103 40,378 47,011 55,034 64,340 75,069 89,172 104,238 119,024
Less acc. Depreciation      4,213  5,328  6,992  8,724 11,275 14,087 16,612 20,199 24,259 29,005 34,806 41,247 48,539
Net fixed assets            8,179  10,062 13,870 17,419 20,828 26,292 30,399 34,835 40,081 46,064 54,366 62,991 70,486
Capitalw.lP.                2,455  4,115  5,114  6,720  7,866  8,341 11,796 14,437 18,242 21,338 21,245 23,731 27,019
Loans & advances            5,497  4,679  5,431  7,147  7,913  7,363  6,690  6,031  5,846  7,184 10,079  8,859 10,229
Total assets               22,639 27,035 34,798 45,788 51,811 57,250 68,126 78,334 92,525 110,268 125,406 138,659 161,929
Liabilities:
Sundry creditors            4,004  4,594  5,152  7,998  4,324  3,670  3,816  3,631  3,094  3,449  3,637  4,246  5,089
Statutory liabilities         574    726    571    867    790  1,003  1,335  1,971  2,273  5,173  6,012  6,846  9,639
Othercurrentlia.            3,200    831  1,241  1,211  5,157  6,862 11,346 11,141 16,481 16,078 19,021 21,601 28,034
S.T.Debts                     418    632    830  1,767  1,340    851  2,243  2,254  2,679  4,360  4,550  5,669  9,318
Total current lia.          8,196  6,784  7,794 11,844 11,611  12,386 18,741 18,997 24,526 29,060 33,221 38,362 52,079
Ltd:govt.                  10,780 13,196 15,636 19,457 21,737 25,284 27,156 31,160 33,462 40,382 46,687 49,093 51,554
Cii
Other liabilities           1,261  1,573  1,825  2,954  3,430  3,883  3,476  6,631  7,094  8,117 10,431 11,597 14,769
Total liabilities          20,237 21,552 25,255 34,255 36,778 41,553 49,373 56,788 65,082 77,559 90,339 99,052 118,402
Share holders' equity:
Paid in capital             9,862 12,869 16,913 21,299 25,567 30,123 35,595 41,203 47,642 52,239 57,133 60,008 60,979
Retained earnings           -7,460  -7,386  -7,370  -9,765 -10,534 -14,426 -16,842 -19,657 -20,199 -19,529 -22,066 -20,401 -17,452
Total Share holders'equity  2,402  5,483  9,542 11,534 15,033 15,697 18,753 21,546 27,443 32,709 35,067 39,607 43,527
Total liabilities          22,639 27,035 34,798 45,788 51,811 57,250 68,126 78,334 92,525 110,268 125,406 138,659 161,929



- 32 -
COAL INDIA LIMITED
FUND FLOW STATEMENT 80181-92J93
Rs million
80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/8   87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  90/91  92/93
Sources:
Income before cpra            -284      56    370  -2,856   -783  -3,558  -3,023  -2,859   -603    760  -2,536   1,666   3,323
Cpra                            0       0   -428    428       0   -484   -298    598    366          0      0       0   -416
Depreciation                  692   1,115   1,664   1,732   2,551   2,811   2,525   3,587   4,060   4,747   5.800   6,441   7,292
Ltdinterest                   623    805   1,110   1,324   1,733  2,158   1,501   2,921   2,600   3,402   4,467   5,331   6,841
Gross i.C.G.                 1,031   1,976   2,716    628   3,501    927    705   4,248   6,423   8,909   7,731  13,438  17,040
New equity capital            1,831   3,007   4,044   4,386   4,268   4,556   5,472   5,608   6,438   4,597   4,895   2,874    971
L.T.Loan                     2,638   2,745   3,380   3,950   3,550   3.835   4,451   4,309   4,197   8,550   6,909   2,406   4.547
Increase in other liabilities  710    311    253   1,128    476    454   -407   3,154    464   1,023   2,314   1,166   3,172
Total sources                6,209   8,039  10,392  10,092  11,795   9,772  10,220  17,319  17,521  23,079  21,849  19,885  25,730
Applications:
Investment                   2,889   4,658   6,470  6,888   7,105   8,751  10,088  10,664  13,111  13,826  14,009  17,552  18,075
Debt service:
Principal payment               0    888    939    313   1,086    289   2,578    305   1,895   1,630    603         0   2,086
Interestpayment                21    708    956    368   1,590  2,128   3,501    365   3,993   3,997   3,422   5,095   3,461
Decrease in other la.
Inc. lnw.Capital            3,299   1,785   2,026   2,523   2,015  -1,395  -5,947   5,986  -1,478   3,627   3.815  -2,763   2,108
Total applications:          6,209   8,039  10,392  10,092  11,795   9,772  10,220  17,319  17,521  23,079  21,849  19,885  25,730
Ratios:
Current ratio                 0.79    1.21    1.33    1.22    1.31    1.23    1.03    1.21    1.16    1.23    1.20    1.12    1.04
Debt to equity ratio          0.82    0.71    0.62    0.63    0.59   0.62    0.59    0.59    0.55    0.55    0.57    0.55    0.54
Debtservicecoverageratio      1.00    1.26    1.41    0.26    1.08   0.23    0.15    0.78    0.96    1.19    0.90    1.47    1.79



- 33 -
Annex 2.1 BHARAT COKING COAL LIMITED
BHARAT COKING COAL LIMITED
INCOME STATEMENT 80/81-92/93
Rs million
8ilLl  81ii2  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93
Coal production (millon
tons)
Underground production       15      1 6     15      14      13     13      14      14      14       15      13      12      12
Openpitproduction             6       7       9      8        9      8      10      11      12      12       14      15      16
Total production             21      23      24      22      22     21       24     25      26      27      27       27      28
Saleable production          2;3     21      23      20      20     20      22      24      25      25       25      26      27
Oms (ton): ug                 0       1       0       0       0       0      0       0        1       0      0        0       0
Oc                       1       2       3       2       1       2      2       2       2       2        2       2       2
Total                    I       I       I       I       I       I       1       I       I       I       I       I       I
Ems(rs)                     51      56      59      79      88      98    107    110    144    150    154          176    205
Revenues
Averageprice(rs/ton)     129    145    164    15    178    206    216    225    265    277    279    302    393
Sales revenues          2,582   3,075   3,732   3,034   3,653   4,085   4,792   5,358   6,616   6,994   7,111   7,827  10,696
Contribution to epra        0       0    -412   -213  -1,494  -1,101  -1,290  -1,718  -2,511  -3,339  -2,413  -3,320  -2,964
Totalrevenues           2,582   3,075   4,144   3,247   5,147   5,186   6,082   7,076   9,127  10,333   9,524  11,147  13,660
Production costs
Salaries & wages        1,792   1,926   2,128   2,884   3,203   3,420   3,699   3,932   5,120   5,149   5,257   6,025   6,835
Overhead                  170    183    223    237    252    286    353    420    424    585    538    699    830
Stores                    336    472    578    547    583    648    682    803    872    909    931   1,190   1,426
Power                     171    240    309    353    482    522    544    570    574    601    667    732    832
Transportation           131    165    168    119        115    152    203    231    261    336          238    287    385
Other costs               128    203    284    202    287    374    483    506    434    329    590    349    726
Total operating costs   2,727   3,188   3,691   4,342   4,923   5,402   5,964   6,462   7,684   7,910   8,221   9,282  11,035
Deprecation               140    183    264    320    413    409    503    610    746    772    906   1,006   1,187
Interest                  133    219    288    389    424    533    279    710    553    696   1,009   1,188   1,656
Total production costs    3,000   3,591   4.242   5,051   5,760   6,344   6,746   7,782   8,983   9,377  10,135  11,475  13,878
Productioncost/ton        150    169      187    251     281    320    304    326    359    371          398    443    511
(rs)
Otodrincome               -33      22      62    -115   -288   -437   -212   -414    -195   -442   -351    -152    -521
Profit before tax        -451   -404      -36  -1,919   -901  -1,594   -877  -1,120    -52    513    -963   -481    -738
Tax                         0       0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Net income               -451   -494      -36  -1,919   -901  -1,594   -877  -1,120    -52    513    -963   -481    -738



-34 -
BHARAT COKING COAL LIMITED
BALANCE SHEETS 80/81-92193
Rs million
80/81  81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88889 89/90 90/91 91/92  92/93
Assets:
Cash&bank                270    179      79    131    215    149    303    335    3o1    276    206    101    364
Coal stock               879    980  1,236    836    918    888  1,451   1,650  1,999  2,691  3,621   4,106  4,854
Stores & spares          344    445    469    647    680    782    767    792    852    965    999    998   1,102
Sundry debtors           365    419    615  1,226  1,072  1,071    779  1,184  2,139  2,832  2,730  2,795   3,970
Others                     4       5      4       7    330    198    178    161      33      61    137    205    509
Total cur.Assets        1,862  2,028  2,403  2,846  3,215  3,087  3,478  4,123  5,384  6,826  7,693  8,205  10,799
Gross fixed assets      2,633  3,353  4,765  5,822  7,305  8,574  9,691  11,304  12,393 14,067 15,808 17,436 20,148
Less acc. Depreciation   769  1,008  1,356  1,751  2,497  3,016  3,465  4,027  4,821  5,679  6,696  7,794  8,995
Netfixed assets         1,865  2,345  3,409  4,071  4,809  5,558  6,226  7,277  7,572  8,388  9,112  9,642  11,152
Capital w.I.P.          1,435  1,651  1,286  1,576  1,391   1,663  2,559  3,086  4,040  4,586  4,882  5,613   5,180
Loans & advances         880   1,060  1,619  2,479  2,534  2,696  2,390   1,844  1,746  1,834  2,109   1,976   1,965
Total assets            6,042  7,084  8,717 10,972 11,948  13,004 14,653  16,330 18,742 21,633 23,795 25,434 29,096
Liabilities:
Sundry creditors        1,054  1,162  1,496  2,380  1,326  1,379  1,054  1,053    919    804    795   1,054  1,341
Statutory liabilities     134    249    172    135      48    211    283    622    644  1,604  1,464  1,076  1,270
Other current ha.        486    316    137    406  1,504  1,233  2,390  2,311  3,363  2,942  3,738  4,429   6,217
S.T.Debts                209    359    420    277    292    249    373    187    152    179    310    194    464
Total current ha.       1,883  2,085  2,224  3,198  3,170  3,071  4,100  4,173  5,078  5,530  6,307  6,752  9,292
Ltd: govt.
Cil                  5,425  6,756  6,389  9,580 11,481  13,172 13,121 15,946 15,399  15,980  17,358  18,294 20,156
Other liabilities
Total liabilities       7,308  8,842  8,613 12,778 14,651  16,244  17,220 20,119 20,477 21,510 23,665  25,045 29,447
Share holders' equity:
Paid in capital         1,657  1,658  3,500  3,500  3,500  4,500  6,044  6,044  8,150  9,500  10,476  11,220 11,220
Retained earnings      -2,923  -3,415  -3,397  -5,306  -6,203  -7,739  -8,612  -9,834  -9,886  -9,377 -10,346 -10,831 -11,571
Total s.H'equity      -1,266  -1,758    104  -1,806  -2,703  -3,239  -2,568  -3,790  -1,735    123    130    389   -351
Total liabilities       6,042  7,084  8,717 10,972 11,948 13,004 14,653 16,330  18,742 21,633 23,795  25,434  29,096



- 35 -
BHARAT COKING COAL LIMITED
FUND FLOW STATEMENT 80/81-92193
Rs million
80/81 LB2   W2m2  Lud   WvM            86517  88M      M    8P/&9 89/9D   Wm1      ai 92122   2293
Sources:
Income before cpra       -451   -494   -449  -2,132  -2,395  -2,695  -2,166  -2,838  -2,562  -2,826  -3,375  -3,801  -3,703
Cpra                       0       0    412    213   1,494   1,101   1,290   1,718   2,511   3,339   2,413   3,320   2,964
Depreciation             201    239    348    396    746    519    449    562    794    857   1,018   1,098   1,201
Ltd interest              99    184    244    356    394    500    264    658    513    694   1,009   1,064   1,682
Gross i.C.G.              -151    -70    556  -1,168    238   -574   -164    100   1,255   2,065   1,064   1,681   2,145
Newequitycapital         1,000      1   1,842      0       0   1,000   1,544     0   2,106   1,350    976    744       0
L.T.Loan                  482   1,331   -367  3,191   1,901   1,691    -52   2,825   -548    581   1,378    936   1,862
Total sources            1,331   1,262   2,030   2,023   2,139   2,117   1,329   2,926   2,814   3,995   3,418   3,360   4,007
Applications:
Investment               527    935   1,047   1,347   1,299   1,541   2,014   2,140   2,043   2,220   2,038   2,358   2,279
Debt service:
Principal payment
Interest payment
Decrease in other lia.
Inc. In w.Capital        804    327    984    677    840    576   -685    786    771   1,776   1,380   1,002   1,728
Total applications:      1,331   1,262   2,030   2,023   2,139   2,117   1,329   2,926   2,814   3,995   3,418   3,360   4,007
Ratios:
Current ratio             0.99    0.97    1.08   0.89    1.01    1.01    0.85    0.99    1.06    1.23    1.22    1.22    1.16















IMAGING
Report No:       15238
Type: PCR



