RESTRICTED
FLE      CO     Y                Report No. P - 7 E  
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A PORT DREDGING PROJECT
June 5, 1969



INrERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEMT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A PORT DREDGING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$3.6 million to
the Republic of Liberia for a port dredging project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Liberia is Africa's biggest and the world's fifth largest
exporter of iron ore. Following modest beginnings made in the fifties,
iron ore today accounts for around 30 per cent of the GDP and 70 per cent
of the exports of Liberia. Over half of these exports are channelled
through the Port of Monrovia. Transportation costs form a significant
part of the delivered price of iron ore. The increasing use of special
purpose large size ore carriers in place of traditional tramps has helped
reduce transportation costs considerably. Ports of destination for Liberian
ore in Germany, Netherlands, France, Italy and Belgium have developed
facilities to receive carriers of 60,000 - 90,000 dead weight tons (DWT)
compared with a maximum of 45,000 DWT which the Port of Monrovia can
handle at present. Use of the larger carriers from Monrovia to these
European ports would reduce freight costs by at least 15 per cent. In
order to be able to compete in these markets, it has become essential for
Liberia to improve its facilities at the Port of Monrovia. Liberia has
also been trying to develop a market for its iron ore in Japan which
consumes about one-third of the world exports of iron ore and is entirely
dependent on foreign ores. In view of the distance between the two
countries Liberia is not likely to succeed in this effort unless larger
ore carriers are used and transportation costs reduced.
3.        In February 1968, the Government of Liberia approached the
Bank for assistance in financing a project to dredge the Port of Monrovia
and requested the Bank to appraise this project on a priority basis. The
Government also informed the Bank that one of the iron ore companies in
Liberia had entered into a contract with a Japanese buyer, the effective-
ness of which was contingent on a commitment by the Liberian Government
to improve the port facilities at Monrovia by dredging the port to a
substantial depth by April 1, 1969. The appraisal mission scheduled to
visit Liberia was delayed because it was found necessary to investigate



- 2 -
the stability and adequacy of the breakwaters at the harbor entrance
before agreeing to proceed with dredging. After this investigation,
the appraisal mission visited Liberia in September 1968. Negotiations
were held in Washington in April/May 1969. The Liberian delegation
was led by The Honorable J. Milton Weeks, Secretary of the Treasury,
and included, among others, Dr. Cyril Bright, Secretary of Planning,
Mr. Frank Stewart, Under Secretary of the Treasury for Fiscal Affairs,
and Mr. George Tubman, Executive Director of the National Port Authority
(TPA).
4.        The following is a summary statement of the only previous
Bank loan to Liberia as of April 30, 1969:
Loan or                                           Amount (US$ million)
Credit iNo. Year     Borrower     Purpose         Bank       Undisbursed
368 LBR     1964     Republic of  Road
Liberia     construction  4.25            .10
Of which has been repaid                 Nil
Total now outstanding                     .25
Amount sold:                               .30
Total now held by Bank                   3.95
5.        The Government's requests for a loan for power and another to
the Liberian Bank for Industrial Development and Investment are under
consideration.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TH-E PROPOSED LOAN
6.        BORROWER:                  Republic of Liberia
BENEFICIARY:              NIational Port Authority
AMOUNT:                   Equivalent in various currencies
of US$3.6 million.
PURPOSE:                  To finance the foreign exchange
cost of dredging the Port of Zlonrovia;
purchase of port equipment; and
consultants' services.
AMORTIZATION:             In 15 years including a 2-12 year
grace period through semiannual
installments beginning on December 15,
1971 and ending June 15, 1984.
INTEREST RATE:            Six and one-half per cent per annum.
COIMfITMENT CHARGE:       Three-quarters of one per cent per
annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        An Appraisal Report entitled "The Port of Monrovia Dredging
Project" (PTR-5a) is attached.
3.        The project provides for dredging an area near the iron ore
loading piers in the Port of M1onrovia up to a depth of 45 feet to enable
larger size ore carriers of up to about 90,000 DWT to enter the harbor,
compared with a maximum of 45,000 DWT size the port can handle at present.
It would also provide for two 1,250 horsepower tugs, a pilot launch,
additional buoying and lighting for the clhannels, management assistance
and engineering consultants'services. Feasibility studies for improving
the road approaches to the port are included.
9.        The project is estimated to cost US$4.2 million equivalent, and
the proposed loan would cover its foreign component. The loan would be
made to the Government which would relend US$3.385 million to NPA on the
same terms. The balance would be retained by the Government for the
feasibility studies of the approach roads.



10.       The Port of Monrovia is at present managed by the Monrovia Port
Management Company (MPMC) under a contract with the Government. MPMC,
a foreign corporation, has provided efficient day-to-day management of the
port; however, under the contract with the Government, it has also been
performing certain functions of a port authority including pilotage and
control of shipping within port limits. The Government considers that
it may not be desirable to allow a foreign-owned management company to
continue to exercise these powers. Therefore, legislation was enacted
setting up a National Port Authority which commenced functioning in
November 1968. The Government has assigned to NPA its rights and
obligations under the Monrovia Port Management Contract, thereby enabling
NPA to exercise the control over Monrovia Port hitherto exercised by the
Government. It is the Government's intention that NPA should eventually
function as a port authority for all the ports of Liberia and exercise
the functions normally exercised by such port authorities. In pursuance
of this, the Government has entered into an agreement with MPMC providing
for the termination of the Monrovia Port Management Contract on or before
June 30, 1970. After such termination NPA will assume all the functions
and powers of a port authority in respect of the Port of Monrovia. It
has also been agreed that prior to December 31, 1969 EPA will enter into
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with MPMC or some other firm
providing for day-to-day management of the NPA ports to take effect on
termination of the Monrovia Port Management Contract.
I1.       The Government also recognizes that NPA should have sufficient
administrative and financial autonomy to enable it to function effectively.
It would take all steps, including the introduction of legislation to the
extent necessary to ensure this. NPA will need to be strengthened by
establishing and filling kep positions and setting up a suitable organiza-
tional structure.  Agreement on these measures was reached during
negotiations, as well as on the principle that NPA should soon earn a
return of five per cent for the year 1971, and of seven per cent for the
year 1972 and thereafter, on the value of net fixed assets in operation
at the Port of Monrovia.
12.       The harbor dues paid by the iron ore mining companies have been
limited by concession or lease agreements and are inadequate to cover the
cost of the service. However, the Government and NPA have undertaken to
institute by May 31, 1970 a revised and comprehensive system of tariffs
and charges for services and facilities at the Port of Monrovia which
shall be reasonably related to the cost of providing such services and
facilities. As an interim measure, an understanding has been reached during
negotiations between the Government and the mining companies that the
schedule of port dues for the ore carriers would be revised to ensure
sufficient revenues to cover the cost of providing them safe anchorage
including the cost of dredging. NPA has given effect to this understanding
by revising its schedule of port dues on ore carriers, effective from
December 1, 1969, by which time dredging is expected to be completed.



13.       Agreement has been reached during negotiations that NPA would
prepare future port development plans and decide on its investment
programs in consultation with the Bank. The Government will relieve
NPA of any responsibility for financing port developments not included in
programs agreed upon by the Bank, the Government and NPA.
14.       The project is well conceived and is technically and financially
sound. The economic rate of return is estimated at 28 per cent. The
project would result in modernizing the Port of Monrovia and would help
to maintain and improve the competitive position of Liberian ore in the
export markets. It would accelerate the process of establishing NPA as
a viable public authority and would be instrumental in introducing a
tariff structure reasonably related to costs.
15è.      In view of its commitment to dredge the port to a substantial
depth by April 1969 and in the light of the situation referred to in para-
graphs 2 and 3, the Government entered into the contract for dredging
in lNovember 1968 after international competitive bidding, and work began
in February 1969. The draft Loan Agreement accordingly provides for
retroactive financing of expenditures on dredging made after February 1,
1969; the amount eligible for reimbursement is estimated to be
US$400,000 as of May 31, 1969.
PART IV - LEGAL I1ISTRUMENTS AiC AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Liberia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the National
Port Authority, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
17.       The draft Loan Agreement and draft Project Agreement substantially
follow the pattern of loan and project agreements for port projects. The
following provisions are of particular interest:
(a) Liberia will take action satisfactory to the Bank
to ensure that the National Port Authority has the
requisite powers, management, resources, capital
structure and financial policies for the efficient
execution of its responsibilities (see paragraph 11
above and Section 5.11 of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(b) Liberia will take all necessary action to ensure that
no Government department or agency enjoys any exemptions
from port tariffs and charges (see Section 5.10 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



- 6 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
18.       A report entitled "The Current Economic Situation and Prospects
of Liberia" (AW-5a) has been circulated to the Executive Directors on
June 2. The economy of Liberia has continued its rapid growth during
the 1960's, mainly due to strongly expanded iron ore and rubber production.
During 1960-1967 GDP increased by about 6 per cent a year. Per capita
GDP in 1967 is estimated at US$218 but income distribution is very uneven.
Outside the small modern sector per capita incomes are extremely low. The
iron ore mines, and, to a lesser extent, the foreign rubber plantations
are self-contained enclaves which have exerted relatively little impact
on the rest of the economy. There has been a certain expansion of
infrastructure facilities and of education but traditional agriculture,
in which over 70 per cent of the economically active population is
engaged, has remained virtually stagnant.
19.       In recent years government attention has been mainly directed
to the implementation of a stabilization program with financial and
technical assistance from the 2TIF. During the years 1958-1962 the
Government had incurred large foreign debts and when iron ore and rubber
prices dropped below what had seemed to be reasonable expectations, a
difficult fiscal situation arose. Agreement was reached with principal
creditors on a rescheduling of repayments due during 1963-1968 and the
Government started its efforts to restore fiscal balance. By and large,
these efforts have been successful. Revenue has increased considerably
and a small but growing surplus is being realized. However in order to
avoid a peak in debt servicing obligations in the next several years, the
Government recently negotiated a new rescheduling agreement regarding
repayments due during 1969-1971. Notwithstanding this agreement, debt
servicing payments will continue to make heavy demands on fiscal resources,
claiming approximately 22 per cent of forecast public revenues during
1969-1975. After 1975 however service on existing debt will decline
rapidly in importance.
20.       GDP growth in the next several years will be slower than in the
past two decades, mainly because the rapid expansion of iron ore produc-
tion has, at least for the time being, come to an end. Rubber production
will continue to grow rapidly in the next four or five years as new and
replanted acreage reaches maturity but will then slow down considerably.
The stage has not yet been set for accelerated growth of the rest of the
agricultural sector with the exception of forestry and perhaps a few
other products. However, the Government has recently started preparations
for increased action in the field of agriculture. Overall growth of GDP
in real terms, taking into account the prospects for iron ore and rubber
prices, leads to the expectation of GDP growth at a rate of 4.5 per cent
a year during 1967-1975 and growth of export earnings of about 5 per cent
a year.



- 7 -
21.       In the longer run Liberia should be able, in view of its
agricultural and mineral resources, to achieve a considerably increased
production level. Owing to the still difficult financial situation
of the public sector, it is desirable that part of external financial
assistance continues to be provided on concessional terms. However, the
Government should be able to achieve further increases in public savings
which should make a growing contribution towards the financing of
development expenditures while allowing at the same time the amortization
of a modest amount of new debt to be incurred on conventional terms.
PART VI - COMVIPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEIIENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII  - IECIKENDATION
23.       I recommend that the Ececutive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. * Mc amara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1969



