RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                  Report No. P-657
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
notbe published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
OF THE
STATES OF MALAYA
FOR A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
December 23, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AED DEVE0IENT
REPORT AND RECOV94lENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE NATIONAL ELECTRICITY BOARD
OF THE STATES OF MALAYA FOR A FOURTH POIWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recacmendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$11.5 million to
the National Electricity Board of the States of lalaya (NEB) for a fourth
power project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In September 1958, the Bank made its first loan (210-MA), which
net of cancellations amounted to the equivalent of US$28.6 million, to the
Central Electricity Board (now renamed the National Electricity Board of
the States of Malaya) to finance the foreign exchange cost of the first
stage of the Cameron Highlands hydroelectric scheme. A second loan (350-MIA),
equivalent to US$51.9 million, was made in July 1963 for the second stage
of that scheme, the first stage of the Prai Thermal Station and the expansion
of transmission facilities. In July 1966 a third loan (458.44A) equivalent
to US$37.0 million was made for the first stage of the Port Dickson Thermal
Station, the second stage of the Johore Bahru Thermal Station, and a further
extension of the Cameron Highlands scheme. Projects covered by the first
two loans have been completed and are operating satisfactorily. Construction
of the project covered by the third loan is proceeding well, and completion
is expected to be on schedule.
3.        In May 1968, Malaysia applied to the Bank for a loan towards the
second stages of the Prai and the Port Dickson Thermal Stations and the
project was appraised in July 1968. Negotiations took place between
December 2 and 4,1968. The NEB as borrower was represented by Dato Osman
bin Talib (Chairman), Raja Zainal (General Manager) and Mr. L.H. Tan
(Financial Controller). The Government of Malaysia as guarantor was
represented by Messrs. Rastam Hadi (Ministry of Finance) and Ibrahim bin
Salleh (Senior Federal Counsel).
4.        The proposed loan would be the tenth for Malaysia.   The Bank also
made a loan of US$6.8 million in February 1965 to the Public Utilities
Board of Singapore under the guarantee of IMalaysia, of which Singapore was
then a part, and iMalaysia remains the guarantor of this loan. The following
is a summary statement of Bank loans to Malaysia as of November 30, 1968.



-2-
Loan                                                           Amount
No.     Year          Borrower               Purpose       Bank    Undisbursed
7 uSs million)
210-MA 1958    Central Electricity       Electric Power    28.6
Board
348-4'A 1963   lalaysian Industrial      Industrial
Development Finance      Finance           8.0       1.1
Berhad (MIDF)
350-MA 1963    Central Electricity       Electric Power    51.9       3.1
Board
434-MA 1965    Government of Malaysia    Irrigation        45.0      30.2
458-1MA 1966   National Electricity
Board                   Electric Power    37.0      22.2
500-NA 1967    Government of Malaysia    Irrigation        10.0       9.9
533-MA 1968    Government of Malaysia    Land Settlement   14.0      14.0
560-MA  1968   Government of Malaysia    Telecommunica-
tions             h -4      4 -4
561-MA* 1968   Government of Malaysia    Water Supply       3.6       3.6
Total (less cancellations)                        202.5
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                                7-3
Total now outstanding                             195.2
Amount sold                       8.7
of which has been repaid        3.5               5.2
Total now held by Bank                            190.0
Total undisbursed                                            88.5
*Not yet effective.
5.        The rate of disbursement of these loans has been roughly in line
with expectations. A loan is under consideration for an education project.
6.        IFC invested US$818,000 in MIDF in conjunction with Loan 348-MA
and in addition has taken part in two financing operations with 1'IDF: in
March 1966 IFC made a loan of US$1,275,000 and an equity investment of
US$284,000 in Tasek Cement, Ltd., and in May 1967 it made a loan of
US$2,451,000 and an equity investment of US$1,016,000 in Malayawata Steel,
Ltd.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCPIPTION OF THE LOAN
7.        Borrower:               National Electricity Board of the
States of Malaya
Guarantor:              Malaysia
Purpose:                To cover part of the foreign exchange
costs of a project to construct the
second stages of the Prai and the Port
Dickson Thermal Stations and associated
transmission facilities.
Amount:                 Various currencies equivalent to
US$11.5 million
Amortization:           In 20 years including a 4 -1/2 year
period of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning June 15, 1973,
and ending December 15, 1988.
Interest Rate:          6-1/2% per annum
Commitment Charge:      3/4 of 1% per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report on the proposed project is attached, entitled
"Malaysia - Appraisal of Port Dickson and Prai Expansion Project" (TO-697a),
dated December 10, 1968.
9.        Electric power in West Malaysia is provided principally by the
NEB which services the whole peninsula of M4alaya, excepting (i) Penang
Island which is supplied by a municipally owned plant, and (ii) part of
the State of Perak which is supplied by the Perak River Hydroelectric
Power Company (PRHE). The installed capacity of NEB is 564 Mw, made up
of 264 Mw of hydroelectric plant and 300 Mw of thermal plant. NEB is
ccnstructing an additional 150 Mw of thermal plant under Loan 458-MA,
scheduled for service in 1969. This will bring NEB's total installed
capacity to 714 Mw. Nearly all its capacity supplies the Interconnected
System which covers most of the western side of the peninsula, and the
Southern System around Johore Bahru. The Interconnected System is also
connected to the PRHE and the Penang City Council Systems.
10.       The NEB was established in 1949 by the Government under the
provisions of the Electricity Ordinance enacted that year. It is a well
organized and well operated utility. The Board of Directors of the NEB
at present consists of a Chairman, a Deputy Chairman (who is also the
General Manager) and nine other menbers, all appointed by the Minister of



- 4 -
Commerce and Industry.  Under the Governmentts policy of M4alayanisation,
by the end of 1967 all key positions were held by Malaysians.
11.       Since 1960, NEB's annual average increase in power sales has
been 13.5%. The annual growth in total sales is forecast at about 12-13%
during 1969 to 1976. New generating capacity and transmission facilities
are needed to meet these future demands. The current program of the WEB
(1968-1972), of which the project forms a part, has been designed to meet
these needs.
12.       The project consists of the construction of the second stages
of thermal stations at Prai with an installed capacity of 30 Mw scheduled
for service in 1970, and at Port Dickson with an installed capacity of 120 Mw
scheduled for service in 1972, and associated transmission facilities to
deliver the additional power to load centers. The total cost of the project
is estimated at US$29.0 million, including interest during construction.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$21.6 million, of which
the proposed loan would meet slightly more than half.
13.       The Malaysian authorities agreed with the Bank that they should
use the power expansion program as an opportunity to utilize some of the
sizeable bilateral credit offers available to Malaysia on reascnably favorable
terms. NEB, following its usual practice, will invite world-wide competitive
tenders for all equipment required for the project; the invitations to tender
for goods not included in the proposed loan will stipulate that financing
terms must be stated along with the offer to supply the goods. This applies
to the larger items for the Port Dickson extension with an estimated foreign
exchange cost of $12.7 million, and for which NEB expects to obtain bilateral
financing for $10.1 million. For the Prai Station extension, there is
insufficient time to negotiate bilateral credits as construction of the
second stage is urgent, and its full foreign exchange cost (estimated at
US$4.5 million) would therefore be included in the proposed loan. 9Iiscella-
neous small items for the Port Dickson Station(estimated at US$3.2 million)
and expansion of the transmission system associated with the two stations
(estimated at US$3.8 million) would also be included in the loan. In the
unlikely event that bilateral credits on reasonable terms cannot be negotiated
for the balance of the items, the Government would meet the cost itself.
The proposed Bank loan would thus amount to US$115. million for the whole
project; in addition to financing imports of goods it would cover engineering
costs and interest and other charges on the proposed loan incurred during
construction. The remaining finance for the project (estimated at US$7.4
million) would be provided out of NEB's internal cash generation, including
any foreign exchange needed to meet down payments and interest during
construction on items purchased under bilaterally financed ccntracts.
1..       No disbursements from the proposed loan would be made for the Port
Dickson Station until NEB had made financial arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank to meet the cost of the main items of equipment excluded from the
Bank loan.
15.       The financial record of NEB is good and its present position is
sound. WEB is expected to earn an average return of 8.5$ on net fixed
assets in operation during the next five years which is satisfactory.



- 5 -
The financing plan for the period covering the proposed project (1968-1972)
is satisfactory. NEB's internal cash generation is expected to finance
about 45% of its capital requirements, and other contributions towards
construction would raise the financing from sources which would not require
borrowi.ng to almost 53%. Debt service would be covered more than two times
by internal cash generation throughout the period.
16.       It is particularly difficult to estimate the return on the proposed
investment as opposed to that on the borrower's total assets. The system
includes both hydro and thermal plants and the degree of operation of the
latter is liable to fluctuate with the availability of water to the former.
As a result it is not possible to segregate in any meaningful way the
production attributable to a particular plant. However, the generating
plant to be added to the system by the proposed project will have operating
costs below the system average.  It is thus reasonable to assume that the
return on this plant will be above the system average of 8.5%.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the NEB, the Draft
Guarantee Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
18.       The Draft Agreements contain provisions usual for this type of
project. They follow the general pattern adopted for previous loans to
the Borrower, except that in line with current practice all matters of
substance agreed between the Bank and the NEB are set forth entirely in the
Loan Agreement rather than partly in supplemental letters. In addition,
they take account of the supplementary financing arrangements proposed
for the larger items of equipment at the Port Dickson Station, as outlined
in paragraphs 13 and 14 above.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.       An economic mission visited Malaysia in July/August 1968 and its
report, "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Malaysia" (EAP-2a), is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
20.       Malaysia's economy in 1967 was once again adversely affected by
a sharp decline in prices of her major export ccmmodities; namely, rubber,
tin and palm oil. As a consequence the growth of GNP, which has averaged
about 7% a year since the beginning of this decade, slowed down last year
to   slightly below 4% in current prices. Real national income increased
by a mere 2.6%,   less than the increase in population. Rubber and tin
prices however have recovered in the course of 1968, and longer term
export prospects seem better than they have been for some time, mainly



- 6 -
due to rapid increases in timber and other minor exports. Also increases
in the volume of rubber exports are likely eventually to more than offset
any further deterioration in prices. Prospects are good for sustained
growth of GNP in the next few years at slightly above 5% a year if the
pace of investment (currently at 18.5% of GNP) is increased somewhat through
continued efforts to mobilize resources for the public sector development
program.
21.       Malaysia's economic policies and financial management are generally
good, and well adapted to her development needs. The main economic problem
is that of financial resources. The contribution of external assistance
to the First Five-Year Plan (1966-1970) so far has been disappointingly
small, mainly because of limited absorptive capacity for project-type loans.
Plan investments nevertheless have so far been on schedule. This was
made possible by additional tax measures in 1966 and 1967, the drawdown
of budgetary surpluses previously accumulated and held in foreign assets,
and non-inflationary domestic borrowing. The rapid growth in the past of
current government expenditures was checked in 1966, but continued restraint
in this respect will be necessary to permit an increase in public savings.
22.       The ratio of Ialaysia's debt service to foreign exchange earnings
is still only 2.2%, and even if in the next 12 years all estimated foreign
borrowing requirements were met by loans on conventional terms, the ratio
would probably still not exceed 91 by 1980. The country's external reserves
are at a relatively high level of about US$600 million, equivalent to about
6-1/2 months' imports, despite a substantial drawdown in 1967 partly caused
by such extraneous factors as the sterling devaluation. Thus Malaysia is
able to service a substantial amount of additional external debt. However,
for some time there will continue to be only a limited number of projects
suitable for external financing; part of the financial gap will have to be
covered by general borrowing in foreign markets and, to the extent possible,
by financing some local expenditures under project loans. Because of delays
in project preparation as well as the difficulty of reconciling the Govern-
ment's policy of international competitive bidding with the use of tied
credits, Malaysia has not been able to utilize more than about one-sixth of
the bilateral credit offers from the members of the Consultative Group,
which have been in excess of US$200 million since the Group met in 1966.
So far, the Bank has been by far the largest single foreign lender to Malaysia,
and future Bank lending with its technical assistance aspects will be a key
element in maintaining an adequate level of public investment.
PART VI - CMP2LIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREiENT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would ccmply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 7 -
PART VII - RECO1,'IENDATION
2l.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
Resolution No.
Approval of Loan to the National Electricity Board
of the States of Mlalaya in an amount equivalent to
US$11,500D000 to be guaranteed by lMlalaysia
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the National Electricity Board
of the States of M4alaya, to be guaranteed by Mialaysia, in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eleven million five hundred thousand
United States dollars (US$11,500,000), to mature on and prior to December 15,
1988, to bear interest at the rate of six-and-one-half percent (6-1/2%)
per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be subs-
tantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form
of Loan Agreement (Fourth Power Project) between the Bank and the National
Electricity Board of the States of Malaya, and the form of Guarantee Agree-
ment (Fourth Power Project) between Malaysia and the Bank, which have been
presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Washington, D.C.
Decemrber 23, 1968



