Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4792-CHA 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054833 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Renewable Energy Scale-up Program 
–
Phase I) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
LONG YUAN PINGTAN WIND POWER COMPANY LIMITED 
 
and 
 
JIANGSU GUO XIN NEW ENERGY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED  
 
Dated August 11, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4792-CHA 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054833 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated August 11, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and LONG YUAN 
PINGTAN WIND POWER COMPANY LIMITED(Long Yuan) and, JIANGSU GUO 
XIN NEW ENERGY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY LIMITED (Guo Xin). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a 
loan to the Borrower in the amount of eighty seven million Dollars ($87,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Long 
Yuan and Guo Xin agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement; 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Long Yuan, and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be entered between 
Jiangsu and Jiangsu Guoxin Investment Group Limited, and Jiangsu Guoxin Investment 
Group Limited and Guo Xin, respectively, pursuant to the arrangements between the 
Borrower and Jiangsu, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement 
will be made available to each of them on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and arrangement;  
(C) 
by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank, acting as an implementing 
agency of the GEF Trust Fund, GEF has agreed to provide a grant to the Borrower in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to forty million two hundred and twenty thousand 
Dollars ($40,220,000); and 
WHEREAS  Long Yuan, and Guo Xin,  in consideration of the Bank’s entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Each of  the Project Companies declare its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, technical, and 
public utilities practice and social and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of the Project Companies shall carry 
out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
Each of the Project Companies shall update its respective Procurement 
Plan in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the 
Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, 
for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 2.03. (a)  Each of the Project Companies shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement and its Respective Part of the Project. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each of the Project Companies shall: 
Page  5
-
3
-
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank, and the Project Companies, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with  
the Project Companies on said plan. 
Section 2.04. Each of the Project Companies shall duly perform all its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Project Companies shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) Each of the Project Companies shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under its respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement  and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b) 
Each of the Project Companies shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective 
Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by  
each of the Project Companies of its obligations under this Agreement and under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of the Project Companies  
Section 3.01. Each Project Company shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, technical and 
public utility practices and sound social and environmental standards acceptable to the 
Bank, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. Each Project Company shall at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and technical practices. 
Section 3.03. Each Project Company shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
Page  6
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  Each of the Project Companies shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to its Respective Part of the Project. 
(b) 
Each of the Project Companies shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without each Project Company’s  reporting obligations set out 
in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to this Project Agreement, each Project Company shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for its Respective Part of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
Page  7
-
5
-
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of its 
Respective Part of the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned implementation of said Part of the 
Project; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under its Respective Part of 
the Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank by 
each Project Company not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar 
semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the 
first expenditure under its Respective Part of the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report be furnished to the Bank 
by each Project Company not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent 
calendar semester, and shall cover the period not covered by the previous Financial 
Monitoring Report until the end of such calendar semester. 
Section 4.03. (a) Each of the Project Companies shall prepare, according to terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and, by June 30 of each year commencing on 
June 30, 2006, furnish to the Bank for review and comments, its rolling long-term 
financial plan (including projected income statements, sources and uses of funds and 
balance sheets covering a period of no less than five (5) years).  
(b) 
Each of the Project Companies shall prepare, according to terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and, by June 30 of each year during Project 
implementation, commencing on June 30, 2006, furnish to the Bank for review and 
comments its projected funds flow statement for the coming year, indicating anticipated 
Project expenditures, sources of funding and indicating commitments of respective 
financiers to provide such funding. 
Section 4.04.
 
Each of the Project Companies shall enter into independent power 
purchase agreements for the sale of their power to a participant of the Borrower’s electric 
market by no later than one year (1) after the entry into service of the plant to be built 
under the Respective Part of the Project, in terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank 
Section 4.05 Each of the Project Companies shall take all action as shall be 
necessary to ensure:  
(a) 
a fully paid in equity capital of RMB170,000,000 for Long Yuan and 
RMB96,090,000 for Guo Xin, which paid in equity capital shall be paid by no later than 
the date of entry into service of each of their respective plants to be built under their 
Respective Part of the Project;  
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) 
that the aggregate annual dividends to be distributed to shareholders in 
any fiscal year, shall not exceed the net earnings of the respective Project Company 
during the implementation of the Project; and  
(c) 
for the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term “net earnings” means the difference between: (A) the 
sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and net 
non-operating income; and (B) the sum of all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance and 
depreciation of plants and equipments, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, interests and other non-cash operating charges, as 
reflected in the financial projections prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.03 above; and 
(ii) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: (A) the revenues from all sources other than those 
related to operations; and (B) the expenses, including taxes and 
payment in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of said 
revenues. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and each Project 
Company thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each Project 
Company thereof. 
Section 5.03. All these provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
Page  9
-
7
-
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are: 
Page  10
-
8
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address:  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For Long Yuan Pingtan Wind Power Company Limited: 
 
The 6
th
-9, North Avenue Fuchengmen 
Floor 19, Tower C, International Investment Building 
Xicheng District 
 
Beijing 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:   
 
 
86-10-6657-9833 
 
For Jiangsu Guo Xin New Energy Development Company Limited: 
 
5
Qingyuan North Road 
Juegang Town 
Rudong 
Jiangsu Province 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile:   
 
 
0086-513-4521908 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Long Yuan, may 
be taken or executed by its Chairman of the Board and Guo Xin, may be taken or 
executed by its Chairman of the Board, or such other person or persons as such officers 
Page  11
-
9
-
shall designate in writing, and each Project Company shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China,  as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ David Dollar 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
LONG YUAN PINGTAN WIND POWER 
COMPANY 
 
LIMITED  
 
By: /s/ Xie Changjun 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
 
JIANGSU GUO XIN NEW ENERGY 
DEVELOPMENT    
 
COMPANY LIMITED 
 
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
By: /s/ Yang Xianwei 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part 
B
of this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.  
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded: (a) on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding; and (b) the following additional provisions: 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of China on 
August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required for compliance with the 
Guidelines: 
(i) 
All invitations to pre-qualify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, 
Page  14
-
12 - 
except for civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less 
than $2,000,000 equivalent each and for goods contracts that are 
estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, which may 
be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission. 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be 
no limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower, Long Yuan, and Guo Xin in 
case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding 
documents shall specify the required form and amount of such 
security. 
(v) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening.  
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower, Long Yuan, and Guo 
Xin, as the case may be. 
(viii)  Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined: (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents; and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost.  The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
Page  15
-
13 - 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted.  
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of 
bids is less than three (3). 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.  
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provision of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  16
-
14 - 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
Bank’s Prior Review shall take place for: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more; and (b) each contract for consultants’ services.  In 
addition, the record of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
shall be subject to prior approval of the Bank.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Bank. 
Page  17
-
15 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
Each Project Company, shall: (i) carry out its Respective Part of the Project in 
accordance with its Respective Project Implementation Plan,  acceptable to the Bank; and 
(ii) provide to the Bank for its prior concurrence any proposed amendment to the 
provisions of said Project Implementation Plan, and, thereafter, put into effect such 
amendment as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
2. 
Each Project Company shall: (i) carry out its Respective Part of the Project in 
accordance with its Respective Environmental Management Plan, in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance 
with its Respective Resettlement Action Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
3. 
Each Project Company shall: 
(a) 
Maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank the 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
(b) 
Prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31 and October 31 of each year, commencing 
March 31, 2006, a semi-annual report: (i) integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the 
progress achieved in carrying out its Respective Part of the Project during the preceding 
calendar semester (or in the case of the last such report furnished for each calendar year, 
during the preceding calendar year); (ii) setting forth physical and financial progress in 
the implementation of said Part of the Project both cumulatively and in respect of the 
period under review; and (iii) setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of said Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date.  
(c) 
Promptly after providing to the Bank each report referred to in sub-
paragraph (b) of this paragraph, each Project Company shall review the same with the 
Bank and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its 
Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank
’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
 
