RP274
VOL. 4
Jiangsu Rudong
Straw-Fired Power Project
Report of Site Change
(Resettlement Part)
WIM*EiJ(QI'ib  7' =1iki±iH
EAST CHINA INVESTIGATION AND DESIGN INSTITUTE UNDER CHECC
August 2006



Approved by: Xu Chunhai
Reviewed by: Bian Bingqian
Main designer: Yu Xiaosong
Checked by:   Chen Sen
Designed by:  Yu Xiaosong
i



List of Contents
PREFACE                        ...................................................................1
1 GENERAL ...................................................................2
1.1 PROJECT BRIEFING ...................................................................2
1.2 PROJECT SERVICE SCOPE                ......................................................2
1.3 PROJECT CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS ...................................................................2
2 SITE SELECTION ...................................................................2
2.1 SITE CHANGE CONDITION                 .....................................................2
2.2 REASON OF SITE CHANGE                 .....................................................3
3. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT CONDITION ....................................4
3.1 PROJECT IMPACT SCOPE                ......................................................4
3.2 INVENTORY INDEX FOR LAND ACQUISITION AND RELOCATION ...........................................4
3.3 LAND ACQUISITION COMPENSATION STANDARD .................................................................4
3.3.1 Use right of state-owned land ................................................................4
3.3.2 Standardfor tentative rent land             ....................................5
3.4 PAYMENT OF LAND ACQUISITION FEE ...................................................................6
3.5 SURVEY OF SATISFACTION FOR RESETTLEMENT              ...................................6
3.5.1  Land Acquiredfor Center Purchase Station ..........................................................8
4. POLICY BASIS ...................................................... 10
4.1 RELATIVE LAW AND LEGISLATIONS ................................................................... 10
4.2 RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE LAWS AND REGULATIONS ............................................... 11
4.2.1 The LandAdministration Law ofPRC                .............................. 11
4.2.2 The Regulations of Land Administration in Jiangsu Province      .............. 12
4.2.3 e Rules in Document [2003] No.131 of Jiangsu Provincial People s Government 13
4.2.4 e Rules in Document [20021 No. 42 of Jiangsu Province People s Government .... 15
4.2.5 ve Rules in Document [2002] No.83 ofRudong County Government and
Document [2002] No. 52 of National Land Resource Bureau of Rudong County       ..... 16
4.2.6 nt [2004] No. 15 of Rudong County Government           ....................... 1 7
ii



Preface
Rudong Straw-fired Power Project is a new energy project financed by the World Bank
with total installation capacity of 25MW, annual power output 180 x 106 kWh (including 162
x 106 kWh to the network). It can offer clean and revived energy for economic development
of Rudong area, as beneficial supplement for large power grid, to supply power to coastal and
reclamation area that locates at the end of power grid, the power load scattered and the
development is rapid.
In 2004, the project was located at Mabei Village in Matang Town of Rudong County,
totally 104mu land was requisitioned(including paddy field 76mu, mulberry garden 27mu,
construction land lmu). Entrusted by Rudong County New Energy Project Office, East
China Investigation and Design Institute (ECIDI) compiled the "Resettlement Acting Plan"
(RAP). In Dec. 2004, ECIDI completed the RAP and passed the assessment of the
WB. Hereon, Jiangsu Provincial Guoxin Investment Management Group ltd. was
the project owner, and set Jiangsu Guoxin New Energy Development Company ltd.
(GXNE) to undertake specific work of this project.
Because the national land protective policy is compelled for implementation, and more
land is occupied by the original scheme,. if submit original Mabei site scheme, the project
may not be approved and the project progress will certainly be affected. As the project can
hardly be progressed forward on the orignial site, the project owner, with the support of the
Rudong County Government, seeked new site which is suitable for project construction away
from the cultivated land. At the same time, Juegang Town People's Government invited the
project owner and offered the idle land in Mingxing Construction Material Company Ltd.
for the construction land. In view of the reasons above (See the follows for details), the final
location is changed inside the plant area of Mingxing Construction Material Company Ltd.,
there is 92mu land inside the plant area, and rent tentatively 20mu from No.42 Team in
Yinxing village as the straw procurement station.
In order to report in detail the site change to the WB, the GXNE entrusted ECIDI to
compile the "Special Report for Site Change" to explain the reason, and relevant matter of
land acquisition and relocation. After the external survey and internal preparation, ECIDI
completed this report and express the wholehearted thanks to local government at different
levels and related function department as well as the resettlement expert Mr. Zhu Youxuan
from the WB that offered us a lot of valuable opinion and suggestion.
1



1 General
1.1 Project briefing
Rudong Straw-fired Power Project is at Yinxing village in Juegang Town of Rudong
County. The project site is inside the idle land of Mingxing Construction Material Company
Ltd., which was stopped for the operation.  The project has a total installed capacity of
25MW, annual power yield of 174x 106 kWh (including 157 x 106 kWh to the network).
Development of straw-fired power is in compliance to the national target of
development and utilization of renewable energies. By absorbing matured techniques of
foreign companies in straw-fired power generation and importing equipment through
international cooperation, the aim is to make the straw-fired power generation
commercialized and in scale development. For this project, the pre-stage work in the past 4
years covered the technical study, site selection, introduction of technologies and
investment, etc. This project is also one of the candidate projects for key scientific and
technical research in the "Eleventh Five-Year Plan" of Jiangsu Province.
1.2 Project service scope
Upon completion of Rudong Straw-fired power project, it will provide clean and
reliable energy to Rudong power system, which will play a remarkable role in increasing
power supply capability and reliability of the system, and will be, as a supplementary
power source, beneficial to Jiangsu power grid.
1.3 Project construction progress
The ground leveling for main structure (inside the plant area of Mingxing Construction
Material Company Ltd.) was started in March 2005, up to present, the ground levelling is
basically ended. In Jan. 2006, the construction of straw procurement station near the main
structure was started and the surface building is under construction. This straw procurement
station is the center station of power plant; in addition, there are 4 straw collection stations
under planning. The whole project is planned to put into operation in October 2007.
2 Site Selection
2.1 Site change condition
The original site is located at Mabei village of Juegang town, the most land is of
farmland and garden  (mulberry garden), and few of construction land.
At present, due to different reasons (See the follows for details), the final location is
changed inside the plant area of Mingxing Construction Material Company Ltd. The
project site is at Yinxing village of Juegang town, about 200m apart to No.223 provincial
road, occupying land of 92mu. In addition, rent tentatively 20mu from No.42 Team in
Yinxing village as the straw procurement station.
The ground attachment abandoned was cleared away by the town government.
2



2.2 Reason of site change
The originally selected project site was at Mabei Village, Matong Township, Rudong
County; now, it is shifted to the area of Mingxing Construction Material Co. Ltd. that was
stopped for operation. The major reasons are as follows:
(I) To keep away from the agricultural land, especially farmland as far as possible,
and not affect the project construction progress;
(1) After Jiangsu "Tieben-iron mill" event, the state stopped the approval of
construction land for Jiangsu province, if submit original Mabei site scheme, it will
certainly affected.
(2) Because the Mingxing Construction Material Co. Ltd. is a clay brick mill, by the
relative rules of document (No.2002-42) of Jiangsu Province People's Government, it
stipulates that simple kiln under 18 portals for illegally earth excavation existing safety risk
with lagged technology shall be closed. Juegang Town People's Government closed the
mill in Nov. 2004, so that 92mu land inside the mill become as idle land. At the same time,
Juegang Town People's Government invited the project owner - Jiangsu Provincial Guoxin
Asset Management Group ltd. to submit to Jiangsu Province National Land Recourse
Department to transfer 92mu land for the project use.
(3) During the period of the national land protective policy, the land policy is
compelled for implementation, and more land be occupied by the original scheme, it is
hard to get the approval from the state. But the new site is on the idle land in Mingxing
brick mill, not use farmland and easy for land use application.
(II) To reduce resettlement impact
There is no resident living in the idle land, therefore there is no house relocation
problem; At the same time, the project uses idle land without land acquisition for farmland,
so that it will not be concerned with resettlement problem.
(III) Other favorable factors
(1) Located near No.223 provincial road, the new site has convenient transportation;
(2) It is surrounded by waters on three sides. This can guarantee the water supply for
the power station operation;
(3) The project site is close to the fire department, only 3km away, so that the safe
operation of the power station can be rather highly guaranteed;
(4) The project constructed in the new site could save the costs of house rehabitation,
resetllement and compensation, therefore to reduce the project investment.
As the reason above, the site is changed to the existing Mingxing Construction
Material Co. Ltd.
3



3. Land acquisition and resettlement condition
3.1 Project Impact Scope
The land acquisition area includes main project structures (storehouse, boiler room
and steam turbine room, etc.), straw purchase station, ash deposit area, access to station,
transformation/ transmission facilities, etc., in which:
(1) Main project structures (including storehouse, boiler room and steam turbine room,
etc.) is planned on 92mu reserved state-owned land of the closed Mingxing Construction
Material Ltd.;
(2) Access roads to station: By the existing road connecting No.233 provincial
highway. No additional land acquisition is required.
(3) Ash deposit area is arranged within the scope of land requisitioned for main
project structures.
(4) The straw purchase stations: There is one central straw purchase station and four
other straw purchase stations, the central straw purchase station near the main building,
which uses 20mu leased from Yinxing village by GXNE. Four other straw purchase
stations are sheduled to be located in the following towns: Bencha, Xindian, Yangkou and
Chahe. Each station has an area of about 16 mu, totally 64 mu for four stations. GXNE
propose to select the sites which invlove no rehabitation and less farmland. Once the site is
settled down, GXNE will perform the land acquisition procedures according to relevant
national laws and local regulations.(5) Transformation/transmission facilities: The power
station is planned to connect with Chengnan substation at Juegang town, about 5 km away
from the station. Now, the preliminary design of transformation/transmission facilities is
completed, total line length 4.4km, 16 new tower bases, and partial line be set on existing
tower, and the land for new tower base about 230m2.
3.2 Inventory index for land acquisition and relocation
At present, the construction of main structure and central straw purchase station is
started, 92mu state-owned land for main structure and 20mu land rent tentatively from
No.42 Team in Yinxing village for central straw procurement station, in which 19.74mu is
farmland and rest is water pond. There is no resident living in the project area, therefore
there is no house relocation problem.
3.3 Land acquisition compensation standard
3.3.1 Use right of state-owned land
Based on the land acquisition agreement signed by GXNE and Rudong People's
Government and Juegang Town People's Government, GXNE allocated 70000 Yuan/mu
to special bank account of National Land Resource Burea of Rudong County. According
to relative rules in Document No. [2002]83 of Rudong People's Government and
Document No. [2002]52 of State Land Resource Bureau in Rudong County, charges for
negotiated land use right assignment for the project construction is 105 yuan/m2 , totaling
70000 X 92 = 6440000 Yuan.
4



3.3.2 Standard for tentative rent land
At present, the concrete land rent rates are not available for the rural collective-owned
land. The rent price of land is usually determined through negotiation between the lessor
and the lessee, and the land renting agreement will be signed after the rent rate and time
length of land renting are agreed by the two sides. Based on consultation with Yinxing
Village Comitte,the rent price of 1100 Yuan/mu is determined. According to the land
renting agreement signed by GXNE and Juegang Town People's Government, GXNE pays
1100 Yuan/mu for land rent each year to Yinxing village.
By the survey, in order to protect the benefit of peasant and considering the policy
balance for land acquisition by other projects, Yinxing Villagers Commission will pay the
compensation for land acquisition standard to members in No.42 Team for land rent for
straw purchase station, the cost gap will be filled by the village. This land compensation
cost is formed by land compensation, resettlement subsidy, young crops compensation and
other compensation cost as following:
(1) Land compensation fee
Based on relative rules of "Regulation on Land Administration for Jiangsu Province",
Document No. [2003]131 of Jiangsu Provincial People's Government and Document No.
[2004]15 of Rudong County People's Government, land compensation is taken 1500
Yuan/mu for annual output, 10 times of annual output, i.e. 1500 X 10=15000 Yuan/mu.
The land compensation is computed by the land affected area, totally: 15000X 19.74=
296100 Yuan
. The land compensation fee is determined in accordance with the calculation basis
and standard stated in the original RAP.
(2) Resettlement subsidy
Based on relative rules of "Regulation on Land Administration for Jiangsu Province",
Document No. [2003]131 of Jiangsu Provincial People's Government and Document No.
[2004]15 of Rudong County People's Government, the resettlement subsidy is computed by
the population affected for resettlement, the population affected for resettlement is
calculated by mean land per capita before the land acquisition, i.e. the resettlement subsidy
is 13000Yuan/person. The resettlement compensation fee is determined in accordance with
the calculation basis and standard stated in the original RAP.
No.42 Team has 98 persons with farmland area 68.6mu, 0.7mu per capita, the
resettlement subsidy per mu is: 13000 . 0.7= 18571Yuan/mu. The resettlement subsidy is
computed by the farmland affected, totally: 18571 X 19.74=366600Yuan
(3) Young crops compensation
Based on relative rules of "Regulation on Land Administration for Jiangsu Province",
Document No. [2003]131 of Jiangsu Provincial People's Government and Document No.
[2004]15 of Rudong County People's Government, young crops compensation is taken
1050 Yuan/mu for output of one season, the young crops compensation is computed by the
land affected area, totally: 1050 X 19.74=20727 Yua n.The young crop compenstaion fee is
5



beyond the standard (750 Yuan/mu as the season output) specificed in the original RAP.
(4) Other compensation
Totally, 15369 Yuan is for other compensation.
The total land compensation of Yinxing village is: 296100+366600+20727+15369=
698796 Yuan
3.4 Payment of land acquisition fee
GXNE paid 6440000 Yuan to the special bank account of National Land Resource
Burea of Rudong County and prepaid 66000 Yuan for land rent for 3 years to Yinxing
village based on the agreement for renting the land for straw purchase station.
Yinxing village completed the distribution of land compensation. Based on the
relative rules of "Regulation on Land Administration for Jiangsu Province", not less than
70% of land compensation fee shall be paid to peasant, so that 70% of land compensation
fee had been paid to villagers of No.42 Team, other type of compensation was fully
distributed to villagers of No.42 Team. Total land compensation fee to villagers of No.42
Team is 609966Yuan, and Yinxing village commission paid 610000 Yuan in total.
After the land renting for straw purchase station, No.42 Team adjusted the land for
whole team, the land per capita is about 0.5mu after the land adjustment. The land
compensation fee was distributed meanly, 6122 Yuan per person, 599956 Yuan in total, the
rest 10044 Yuan was given to family members that someone pass away in recent two years
to express solicitude.
All compensation fee has been paid to the villiagers in No.42 Team.
3.5 Survey of satisfaction for resettlement
3.5.1  About the land for main project structures
For the land for main building, the land of Mingxing Construction Material Co. Ltd.
Is state-owned land and the ground structures and attachment were cleared away by
Juegang Town People's Government, so that no resettlement will be done by the project
owner. To explain that there will be no remained problem after closing of Mingxing
Construction Material Co. Ltd. and no bad influence for the construction of project, the
further information is collected as the following:
The Mingxing Construction Material Co. Ltd. mainly produced bricks made from clay.
According to the Notice on Re-structuring Trade Relating Kilns and Speeding up
Development of New Wall Materials issued by the Jiangsu Provincial Government
Administrative Office (document numbered Su Zheng Ban Fa [2002] No. 42), all the
simple kilns which have gates less than 18 in number, take the soil/clay illegally, adopt
obsolete techniques and have serious hidden trouble against safety, should be closed.
Therefore, the Juegang Town People's Government issued the order to the company in
Nov. 2004 requesting the brick production to be stopped. According to the agreement
between Mingxing Construction Material Co. Ltd. and Juegang Town People's
Government, the mechanical equipment, stock-in-trade, low value fugitive resources are
6



owned by Brick Mill and handled it independently, other ground buildings, water and
power facilities are owned by Juegang Town People's Government. Juegang Town
People's Government paid once 2980000 Yuan to the Brick Mill, original staff of company
shall be settled by the company. Original debt and creditor's rights shall be solved
independently by the company and not concerned with Juegang Town People's
Government.
After the company closed its brick mill, the Juegang Town Government invited the
project owner to arrange the project site at Juegang Town within the 92 mu land of the
company. In Jan. 2005, invited by the town government, the project owner came and signed
agreement with the Rudong County and Juegang Town governments. It was agreed that the
Rudong County and Juegang Town govermments should go through all legal formalities for
transfer of the use right of the land according to the state laws, the project owner should pay
to the special state land use account for the land transferred at the rate of 70000 Yuan/mu.
The company should be responsible for removal of buildings and structures and clearing of
the 92 mu land, and complete all legal formalities before the end of February 2005.  After
that the Rudong County government submitted application for land transfer to the relevant
government departments; approved by Jiangsu Provincial State Land Administration in Jun.
2005, the 92mu land was officially taken as the state-owned land (by document numbered
Su Guo Tu Zi Di Han K 2005 ] No.27). The project owner also paid 6.44 million Yuan to the
special state land use account for land transfer. By then, the land acquisition for project
main structures was completed.
In addition, according to the agreement signed between the company and Juegang
Town government, the company was responsible for the resettlement of its staff. ECIDI
survey team tried to understand the process and conditions of the resettlement through
interview with the staff and with the responsible cadre of the town. As the company's
responsible person for resettlement was not available, it was difficult to have better
understanding of the resettlement.
According to interview with Gao Guolan and other 7 original employees of the
company, the employees of the company, except few managerial staff, earned their wages
based on the quantity of products they produced. And most of the employees were the local
farmers in the nearby villages and there were some labors from Anhui Province. The
company had no employment contract with the employees, therefore, only those few
managerial staff was stable with the company, and most of the employees were running in
and running out of the company.
Gao Guolan had her wage generally varying between 400- 1000 Yuan per month, and
most of the employees of the company had the similar wage range. After the company was
closed, the company paid the employees 1200-1800 Yuan for transition. The amount of
transition fee for resettlement was based on the position and monthly income of each
employee, and no further contract was signed between the company and the employees. For
Gao Guolan and other 7 employees, it seemed that they were satisfied at the amount of the
transition fee for resettlement, because they thought this amount of the fee was much more
than what they could expected. They also mentioned that other employees were
comparatively satisfied. They are now working for other factories, and most of the
employees have found their new job. The detail information obtained about the employees
7



interviewed is as listed in Table 3-1 below.
Information Obtained of Interviewed Employees of Mingxing Const. Material Co. Ltd.
Table 3-1
Name    Gender    th    Job       Mon.     Transition fee             Level of
place            income         for     Presentjob   stisfaction
resettlement
Gao      F     Ru-    Brick    400-600        1200      Worker in    Satisfied
Guolan          dong   making                            textile mill
Worker in
Gu      M     Ru-     BrickWokri
Zhuhua          dong   making    600'-800      1600      furnishing   Satisfied
Zhuhua  dong makifactory
Zh                                                       Worker in
Haoyn     M     dong   making    600'--800     1600      furnishing  Satifactied
factory
Guan      M     Ru-    Brick   800   1000     1800       Cargador    Satifactied
Huailin         dong   making
Xu       F    Ru-     Brick    400-600       1200       Worker in   Satisfied
Guiying         dong   making                            textile mill
Gu       F     Ru-    Brick    400-600       1200      Worker in    Satisfied
Xiulan          dong   making                            textile mill S
Gu      M      Ru-     Kiln   800'-1000      1800       Cargador    Satisfied
Xigui          dong   operator
Wang      M     Ru-    Brick    600-800        1600      Worker in    Satisfied
Zhixue          dong   making                           printing mill
3.5.2 Land Acquired for Center Purchase Station
As constrained by the county's land use plan and land-use index, the procedures for
land requisition for the Center Purchase Station could not be performed at present.Since
straw collection is the precondition of the power plant's operation, in order to create an
atmosphere of straw purchase in local area, it is necessary to build the center straw
purchase station closed to the plant first.Since the piece of land belongs to collective land
which is under the administration of Juegang Town. After consultation with the
government of Juegang Town and relevant village , GXNE obtained the land for the
center station by the method of renting for the time being.See Attachment 1: Certificate
issued by the People's Government of Juegang Town and Attachment 23: Cerficate issued
by Rudong Land Source Beareau. The Red Line Drawing (confining the station area) and
the Proposal for Station Site Selection ( See Attachment 34) have been approved by the
Construction Bureau and the application materials have been submitted to the state land
8



administration. Rudong County has planned to list this piece of land into the scope of the
construction land for 2007 in March 2007. It is expected that it can be approved in July
2007 by the land administrative authorities of Natong City and Jiangsu Province. In Jul. -
Aug. 2007, the project owner can file to the county land administration and county
development and reform committee for the pre-approval. It is expected that the land use
index will be issued in Nov. 2007. After issuing the index, the project owner will set out the
boundary of the land to be used and go through the formality for land requisition and land
supply scheme, and submit to the provincial and city land administrations for approval. It is
expected that the approval procedures can be completed in March 2008. After that, the
project owner plans to complete the formality for application of the land use certificate and
land compensation in March - April. By then the land requisition formality is finished, and
before the time, the land used for the center purchase station is by renting agreement.
The expenses of land requisition includes two parts, i.e., (A) the expenses of land
requisition paid by the project owner to the Yinxing Village and (B) the land transfer
expense paid by the project owner to the special account of state land of the county financial
department.
For Part (A), the official document issued by the Rudong County People's Government
[Dong Zheng Fa [2004] No.15] should be followed, and it is composed of the land
compensation, resettlement subsidy and standing crop compensation. The details are as
follows, (and the actual criteria are same as that the Yinxing Village has paid to the
villagers)..
(1) Land compensation
According to the official document issued by the Rudong County People's
Government [Dong Zheng Fa [2004] No.15] , the land compensation is based on ten times
of the yearly output of land 1500 Yuan/mu, i.e., 1 500x 10= 15000 Yuan/mu. The cultivated
land to be affected is 19.74 mu, the compensation to the affected cultivated land is
15000X19.74 =296100 Yuan; the other farmland is 0.26 mu, the compensation is
15000x0.26=3900 Yuan. Therefore, the total land compensation is 296100+3900=300000
Yuan.
(2) Resettlement subside
According to the official document issued by the Rudong County People's
Government [ Dong Zheng Fa [2004] No.15 ], the resettlement subside should be calculated
based on the number of farmers affected by land requisition, and the number of farmers
affected by land requisition should be computed by the quantity of cultivated land to be
requisitioned divided by the per capita cultivated land holding of the rural collective
economic unit before land requisition, and the resettlement subsidy criteria is 13000 Yuan
per capita.
There are totally 98 persons in No.42 Village Group of Yinxing Village; the total
cultivated land is 68.6 mu, i.e., 0.7 mu per capita. Therefore, the resettlement subside
criteria, converted by mu, is 13000  0.7=18571 Yuan/mu; and based on the area of
affected land, the total resettlement subsidy is 18571 X 19.74=366600 Yuan.
(3) Compensation to standing crops
According to the official document issued by the Rudong County People's
Government [ Dong Zheng Fa [2004] No.15] , the compensation is generally based on the
9



crop output of one season, and the compensation criteria of standing crops is same as
adopted at Yinxing Village, i.e., 1050 Yuan/mu; and based on the area of affected cultivated
land, the total compensation to standing crops is 1050X 19.74=20727 Yuan.
The total compensation of Part A is 300000+366600+20727= 687327 Yuan.
For Part B, the official document issued by Rudong County People's Government
[Dong Zheng Fa [2002] No.83] and the official document issued by Rudong State Land
Administration [ Dong Guo Tu Zi [2002] No.52 ] should be followed, in which the minimum
standard is specified for the transfer price of state-owned land, and at present, the final price
of the transferred land is usually determined through land assessment. Considering the
strong support of the county government to the project and the uncertainty in assessment,
this report tentatively takes the minimum land transfer price of 105 Yuan/m2 that is
specified in the above two official documents for the other state-owned land in Juegang
Township. The total land transfer cost is 70000 X 20 = 1400000 Yuan. In paying this part of
the expenses, a total of 687327 Yuan of land compensation calculated according to the
official document issued by the Rudong County People's Government [Dong Zheng Fa
[2002] No.15] should be deducted, i.e., the project owner only need to pay the land transfer
cost of 712673 Yuan now.
ECIDI survey team visited No.42 Village Group of Yinxing Village to get
understanding about the opinions of local PAPs. The team interviewed with Bao Zhiqing of
the village group. What he talked about indicated that not only he himself but also many
other villagers as well as the village cadres were satisfied with the compensation criteria and
the way of the paying the compensation. Bao's family has six members. Previously, his
family contracted 3.5 mu land, which is now all within the scope of the requisitioned land
for purchase station. The village group has re-allocated the land for contracting, and now,
his family has contracted a piece of land about 2.5 mu, and has received land compensation
of 30000 Yuan.
4. Policy Basis
4.1 Relative law and legislations
The law basis for this project is including:
(1) "Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of China"
(2)"Implementation Regulations for Land Administration Law of the Peoples Republic
of China"
(3) "Regulation on Land Administration for Jiangsu Province"
(4) "Notice of Jiangsu Provincial People's Government on Adjustment of Land
Acquisition Compensation Standard" No.[2003] 131 of Jiangsu Province
(5) "Notices of Jiangsu Povince Government Office to Transmit Document of Further
Renovating Tile/brickkiln Industry and Quickly Developing New Wall Material Issued by
National Land Resource Department" , Document [2002] No. 42 issued by Jiangsu
Province People's Government Office
10



(6)"Notice on Requesting Instruction on Lowest Prices for Negotiated Assignment of
State-owned Land Use Right in Rudong County by National Land Resource Bureau of
Rudong County", Document [2002] No. 83 issued by Rudong County People's
Government
(7) "Announcement of Requesting Instruction on Lowest Prices for Negotiated
Assignment of State-owned Land Use Right in Rudong County", Document [2002] No.52
issued by National Land Resource Bureau of Rudong County
(8) "Notices on Management Method for Land Used for Construction in Rudong
County(Tentative)", Document [2004] No. 15 issued by Rudong County People's
Government
4.2 Relevant Provisions of the Laws and Regulations
4.2.1 The Land Administration Law of PRC
Land Ownership and Usage Rights
Article 8 The urban land belongs to the whole people, namely the state. Except those
belonging to the state regulated by the law, the rural land and suburbs land are in possession
of the collective ownership. The housing plot, and private plots and hills belong to the
collective ownership.
Article 9 The State-owned land and all peasant collective lands can be used by units or
individuals according to laws. The individuals and units, the land users, have duties to
protect, manage and reasonably use the land.
Land to be Used for Construction
Article 43 All units and individuals that need land for construction purposes shall, in
accordance with law, apply for the use of State-owned land, with the exception of the ones
that have lawfully obtained approval of using the land owned by peasant collectives of their
own collective economic organizations to build township or town enterprises or to build
houses for villagers and the ones that have lawfully obtained approval of using the land
owned by peasant collectives to build public utilities or public welfare undertakings of a
township (town) or village.
"The State-owned land" mentioned in the preceding paragraph includes land owned by
the State and land originally owned by peasant collectives but requisitioned by the State.
Article 55 A construction unit that obtains use right of state-owned land by assignment
shall, in keeping with the standards and measures prescribed by the State Council, pays,
among other charges, compensation for land-use right assignment, before it can use the land.
Article 56 A construction unit that uses state-owned land shall use the land in agreement
with the stipulations in the land assignment contract or the provisions in the official approval
documents of the land-use right assignment. In case that the construction purposes of this land
is definitely be change, the matter shall be subject to agreement by the land administration
department of the people's government that originally approved the use of land. The land, of
which the purposes of land use need changed, is located in the area under urban planning, the
matter shall be subject to agreement by the relevant urban planning administration department
before an application is submitted for approval.
11



4.2.2 The Regulations of Land Administration in Jiangsu Province
Chapter V Land for Construction
Article 26 The land acquired shall be compensated with the following standards:
(I) Compensative standard of land acquired
(1) For farmland (including vegetable field), 8-10 times of annual average productive
value for last 3 years.
(2) For regraded fish ponds, 10-12 times of annual average productive value of nearby
plowland for last 3 years; for other aquatic production water surfaces, 4-8 times of annual
average productive value of nearby plowland for last 3 years.
(3) For orchards or other economic woodlands, 8-12 times of of annual average
productive value of nearby plowland for last 3 years.
(4) For other farmland, 6-10 times of annual average productive value of nearby
plowland for last 3 years.
(5) For unused land, 3-5 times of annual average productive value of nearby plowland
for last 3 years.
(6) For collective-owned non-agriculture constructive land, 6-10 times of annual average
productive value of nearby plowland for last 3 years.
(II) Resettlement subsidy to the land acquired
(1) The resettlement subsidy of plowland shall be computed by the size of land acquired.
The resettlement subsidy should be 5 times of annual average productive value of nearby
plowland for last 3 years if the area per capita farmland of the agricultural population in the
affected village is over 1/15 hectare. If the area per capita farmland of the agricultural
population is less than 1/15 ha, the resettlement subsidy should be counted from 6 times of
annual average productive value of nearby plowland for last 3 years, and should be increased
by one time for each additionally acquired 1/150 heactare, but 15 times at the maximum.
(2) The resettlement subsidy of other farmland is 70% of the land compensation
standard.
(3) No resettlement subsidy will be counted for collective-owned non-agriculture
constructive land and unsued land.
(III) Compensation for ground attachment and young crops
(1) The compensation for houses, other buildings and structures shall be based on the
replacement price and age of structure.
(2) For irrigation facilities, breeding farms, and power, broadcast, communication
facilities, etc., the moving allowance or compensation shall be paid on the principle of
equivalent replacment.                       1
(3) The compensation to young crops is calculated normally according to the productive
value of one season, and no compensation should be paid if the harvest is on schedule. For
seedlings, flowers and perennial economic woods that can be transplanted, the allowance of
transplantation shall be paid; or otherwise, they should be reasonably compensated or
purchased at proper prices.
12



If the annual average productive value of nearby plowland for last 3 years mentioned
above is less than 18000 Yuan, 18000 Yuan is based for calculation.
The actual standard for land compensation fee, resettlement subsidy, compensation of
ground attachment and young crops shall be determined by relevant municipal government
and reported to provincial government.
Article 27  The Land compensation shall be paid to rural collective economic
organization that exercises land ownership. If the land is contracted by peasant and the rural
collective economic organization does not adjust other land with equivalent quantity and
quality to peasant, not less than 70% land compensation fee shall be paid to peasant; If the
rural collective economic organization has certain condition to develop production and solve
living problem of peasant, the compensation fee could be used collectively after agreed by the
resettlers.
If the resettler is arranged by rural collective economic organization, the resettlement
subsidy shall be paid to rural collective economy organization; If the resettlement is not
needed, the resettlement subsidy shall be paid to resettler or paid for insurance after agreed by
the resettlers.
VI Assignment, transfer, rent and mortgage of land-use right
Article 36 The state-owned land used by construction units and individuals, besides
land transfer according to legal stipulations, shall be obtained through assignment of land-use
right, investment on evaluated price or buying a share as well as renting state-owned land.
The assignment of the land ownership is should be uniformly organized by people's
governments above county level and implemented by the responsible land administrative
department, by ways of agreement, public bidding, auction, etc. The land used for businesses
such as for trade, tourism, recreation and the real estate within the planning area of city must
be assigned through bidding and auction.
The price for negotiated assignment of State-owned land use right shall not be less than
lowest price decided by province people's government in accordance the base standards.
The specific procedures and methods for assignment of State-owned land use right
through negotiation, bidding and auction shall be carried out according to stipulations of
provincial people's government.
Article 43 In the course of land use right assignment, the assigner shall truthfully
declare the bargain price to the department designated by county people's government or
above. When the market price for land use right assignment is obviously excessively low, the
people's government above the county level shall have the priority to purchase the land
according to the declaring price; and when the market price for land use-right assignment
rises unreasonably, the people's governments at city or county level can adopt necessary
measures.
4.2.3 Relative Rules in Document [2003] No.131 of Jiangsu Provincial People's
Government
The relative rules in Notice of Jiangsu Provincial People's Government on Adjustment
of Land Acquisition Compensation Standard, Document [2003] No.131 issued by Jiangsu
Provincial People's Government, are as follows:
I. Increase of compensation standard for land acquired
13



Based on relative provisions of Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of
China, Law of Contracting Rural Land of the People's Republic of China, and Land
Management Regulations of Jiangsu Province, and in view of the current level of economic
and social development and the land value at each area, it is decided to divided the land of the
province into four categories and compensation standards shall be applied accordingly..
For plowland acquired, 10 times of annual average productive value of the plowland for
last 3 years. The standard of annual average productive value of the plowland for last 3 years
for Category I, II, III, IV should not be less than 1800, 1600, 1400 and 1200 Yuan/mu
respectively.
The resettlement subsidy to plowland shall be computed by the number of resettlers. The
number of resettlers is computed by the quantity of land to be requisitioned devided by the per
capita land of rural collective organization before land acquisition. The resettlement subsidy
of each reserttler should not be lower than 20000, 17000, 13000 and 11000 Yuan respectively
as per Category I, II, III and IV.
The compensation and resettlement subsidy to requisition of other lands and other
agricultural lands shall be adjusted by the municipal peoples government at each level based
on the Land Management Regulations of Jiangsu Province and the above mentioned provision,
and reported to the Provincial People's Government.
This new compensation standard takes effect on Jan. 1, 2004. The original compensation
standard should be valid for the project approved before this date.
14



Compensation Standard Categories for Lands Requisition in Jiangsu Province
Table 4-1
Category                                 Applicable to
Nanjing city: Xuanwu district, Gulou district, Baixia distric, Qinhuai district, Jianyou
district, Xiaguan district, Xixia district,Yuhuatai district, Jiangning district; Wuxi city:
Chong-An district, Nanchang district, Baitang district, Binhu district, Xishan district,
I     Huishan district; Jiangyin city; Changzhou city: Tianning district Zhonglou district,
Wujin district, Xinbei district;  Suzhou city: Pingjiang district, Changlang district,
Jinchang district, Huqiu district, Wuzhong district, Xiangcheng district; Changshu city,
Zhangjiagang city, Taichang city, Kunshan city, Wujiang city
Nanjing city: Liuhe district, Pukou district; Yixing city, Changzhou city: Qisuyan
district, Jintan city, Liyang city, Nantong city: Chongchuan District, Gangzha district;
Yangzhou city: Guangling district, Weiyang District, Zhenjiang city: Jingkou District,
Runzhou district; Taizhou city: Hailing District, Gaogang district
Lishui county, Gaocun county, Xuzhou city: Yunlong district, Gulou district, Quanshan
district; Haian county, Rugao city, Tongzhou city, Rudong county, Haimen city, Qidong
city, Lianyungang city: xinpu district, Haizhou district; Huai-an city: Qinghe district,
III    Qingpu district, Yancheng city, Yangzhou city: Hanjiang district;  Baoying county,
Gaoyou city, Yizhen city, Jiangdu city, Zhenjiang city: Dantu district; Yangzhong city,
Jurong cicty, Danyang city, Xinhua city, Jiangyan city, Taixing city, Jingjiang city, Xuqian
city: Xuncheng district
Xuzhou city: Jiawang district, Jiuli district, Pizhou city, Xinyi city, Fengxian county,
Peixian county, Tongshan county, Suining county, Lianyun gang city: Lianyun district;
Ganyu county, Donghai county, Guanyun county, Guannan county; Huai-an city: Huaiying
IV     district, Chuzhou district, Lianshui county, Hongze county, Xuyi county, Jinhu county,
Xiangshui county, Binghai county, Funing county, Sheyang county, Jianhu county, Yandu
county, Dafeng city, Dongtai city, Suyu county, Shuyang county, Siyang county, Sihong
county
4.2.4 Relative Rules in Document [20021 No. 42 of Jiangsu Province People's
Government
The relative rules in "Notices of Jiangsu Povince Government Office to Transmit
Document of Further Renovating Tile/brickkiln Industry and Quickly Developing New Wall
Material Issued by National Land Resource Department", Document [2002] No. 42 issued
by Jiangsu Province People's Government Office, are as follows:
II. General requirements on further carrying out comprehensive renovating
tile/brickkiln industry and renovated objects
15



(I) General requirements on comprehensive renovating
Strictly implement a series of laws, regulations and stipulations issued by country and
province, carry out the overall and thorough renovating on tile/brickiln over the province.
Uncompromisingly ban illegal factory and enterprise with serious safe hidden troubles and
problems such as illegal earth excavation, destroying farmland and dyke, serious pollutive
environment, lagged technology, and welshing tax. Strictly restrict the output and earth
excavation quanity of clay solid-brick enterprise, and prohibit to use clay solid-brick in the
stipulated area. Through renovating, bring brick/tile enterprises over the whole province into
the orbit of normal management and legal production so as to promote the provincial
economic society in continuous development.
(II) Renovated objects
(1) Immediately close small-sized earth kilns and simple rotated kilns under 18 portals.
(2) Close all brick/tile enterprises within scope of the urban planning area in provincially
administeered municipality.
(3) Within scope of nature preservation zone, the district of wellknown scenic spot, the
protective area of cultura and historic relic as well as the geological remains, basic farmland
protective area, the area along a river, stream, lake and channel, and other special protective
area, the tile/brick enterprise must be closed.
(4) The tile/brick enterprises without earth source or damage to the plowland must be
closed immediately, and those with a less earth source or purchasing earth source from
outside shall be closed within a definate time or be limited on its output.
(5) Enterprise inconsistent with specifications in National "Guidence Catalogs for New
Construction Material and Product Development" and innovation policy requirements for wall
material, or with laggered technology and out-of-date equipment, product quality not meeting
with related standard, and not meeting the environmental protective requirements should have
the technical reforming immediately. The enterprise must be closed if it can not meet
requirements after technical reforming or it can not complete the reforming in time.
4.2.5 Relative Rules in Document [2002] No.83 of Rudong County Government and
Document [2002] No. 52 of National Land Resource Bureau of Rudong County
The relative rules in "Notice on Requesting Instruction on Lowest Prices for Negotiated
Assignment of State-owned Land Use Right in Rudong County by National Land Resource
Bureau of Rudong County", Document [2002] No. 52 issued by National Land Resource
Bureau of Rudong County, are as follows:
I. Scope of application
The lowest prices herein of negotiated assignment of state-owned land is applicable for
the lands to be used for construction of new industrial, infrastructure and public welfare
facilities and for use of the reserved lands for construction. The land used for business
commercial purpose such as trade, tourism, entertainment and real estate development must
be assigned through bidding, auction or listing.
II. Application of the lowest price in negotiated assignment
(1) When the government takes the responsibility for uniform land requisition and
paying the land compenstation, the associated facilities of land development is not under the
responsibily of the government, but under the responsibility of the land user. The negotiated
16



lowest price shall follow the announced prices.
(2)When the government takes the responsibility for uniform land requisition, paying the
land compenstation and the associated facilities of land development (such as access, water
supply and electricity supply or access, water and electricity supply, and TV and telephone
line), the land user will not pay for the associated facilities, but shall be responsible for
paying the negotiated lowest price announced herein plus the cost of associated facilities and
corresponding interest and frofits.
The negotiated lowest price of state-owned land assignment in Rudong County is shown
in Table below.
Negotiated Lowest Price of State-Owned Land Assignment
in Rudong County
Table 4-2
Minimum price for assignment tirough
Township         Scope of application          arent(u/n2)
agreement (yuan/m2)
Planning area                      120
Juegang       Economical developing area              115
Other areas                       105
Planning area                      110
Others
Other areas                       105
In Oct. 2002, the Rudong County People's Government approved the Dongguotuzi
[2002] No.52 document in its Dongzhenfa [2002] No. 83 Document, and rules in
Dongguotuzi [2002] No.52 document should be implemented by the governments at all
levels within the county as well as relative units.
4.2.6 Document [20041 No. 15 of Rudong County Government
The relative rules in "Notices on Management Method for Land Used for Construction
in Rudong County (Tentative)", Document [2004] No. 15 issued by Rudong County
People's Government, are as follows:
VI Compensation for Land Acquisition
The fee for the land acquisition covers the land compensation, the resettlement subsidy
and the compensation for the ground attachment and young crops. The standards are as
follows:
(I) Compensative standard of land acquired
(1) For farmland, 10 times of annual average productive value for last 3 years.
(2) For regraded fish ponds, 10-12 times of annual average productive value of nearby
plowland for last 3 years; for other aquatic production water surfaces, 6-8 times of annual
average productive value of nearby plowland for last 3 years.
(3) For orchards or other economic woodlands, 8-12 times of of annual average
productive value of nearby plowland for last 3 years.
17



(4) For other farmland, 6-10 times of annual average productive value of nearby
plowland for last 3 years.
(5) For unused land, 3-5 times of annual average productive value of nearby plowland
for last 3 years.
(6) For collective-owned non-agriculture constructive land, 6-10 times of annual average
productive value of nearby plowland for last 3 years.
(II) Resettlement subsidy to the land acquired
(1) The resettlement subsidy to plowland shall be computed by the number of resettlers.
The number of resettlers is computed by the quantity of land to be requisitioned devided by
the per capita land of rural collective organization before land acquisition. The resettlement
subsidy of each reserttler should be 13000 Yuan.
(2) The resettlement subsidy of other farmland is 70% of the land compensation
standard.
(3) No resettlement subsidy will be counted for collective-owned non-agriculture
constructive land and unsued land.
(III) Compensation for ground attachment and young crops
(1) The compensation for houses, other buildings and structures shall be based on the
replacement price and age of structure. For irrigation facilities, breeding farms, and power,
broadcast, communication facilities, etc., the moving allowance or compensation shall be paid
on the principle of equivalent replacment (The relocation and compensation method shall be
implemented according to relavant documents of County Government).
(2) The compensation to young crops is calculated normally according to the productive
value of one season, and no compensation should be paid if the harvest is on schedule. For
seedlings, flowers and perennial economic woods that can be transplanted, the allowance of
transplantation shall be paid; or otherwise, they should be reasonably compensated or
purchased at proper prices.
For the above plowland acquired, the standard of annual average productive value for
plowland for last 3 years should be 2100OYuan-22500Yuan/hectare  (1400 - 1500
Yuan/mu).
18






Attachment 1: Certificate issued by the People's Government of Juegang Town
(English version for reference)
August 1, 2006
Certificate
We hereby certify that the land (13864.6 m2, equal to 20.8 mu) for the site of Juegang
Straw Collection Station, associated project of Jiangsu Rudong 25MW Biomass
Power Pilot Plant, is a piece of farmland. The land is planned to be list into the scope of
of construction land in 2007 and will be formally acquired once the list procedure is
completed.
Since the piece of land belongs to the collective land, it is used by means of rent for
the time being.
Sincerely yours,
The People's Government of Juegang Town



Attachment 2: Certificate issued by Rudong Land Resource Bureau
(English version for reference)
August 1, 2006
Certificate
2
We hereby certify that the land (13864.6 m , equal to 20.8 mu) for the site of Juegang
Straw Collection Station, associated project of Jiangsu Rudong 25MW Biomass
Power Pilot Project, is a piece of farmland. The land is planned to be list into the scope
of of construction land in 2007 and will be formally acquired once the list procedure is
completed.
Sincerely yours,
Rudong Land Resource Bureau
2



Attachment 3: The Proposal for Station Site Selection
(English version for reference)
Proposal for Site Selection of Construction Projects
No.Dongguizhi(2006)056
The Proposal for Site Selection is prepared according to Clause 30 of the Urban
Planning Law of the People's Republic of China and the Management Rules on Site
Selection Planning of Construction Project. It is a lawful supporting document for
Design Prospectus (Feasibility Study Report) of the construction projects for
approval.
Project       Project name  Straw Collection Station
briefing      Owner's name Jiangsu  Guoxin   New   Energy   Development
Company
Project basis
Project size  Construction area  / m2
Proposed site  No.42 Team, Yinxing Village, Juegang Town
Comments                                                  April 30, 2006
provided by
the           Based on the application of proposal for site selection and associated
administrative documents and drawings submitted by the owner, we agree with the
department of site selection. According to urban planning and Rules on
urban         Management Technology of Jiangsu Urban Planning, the design
planning      conditions of the construction work are as follows:
1. Land area: about 13864.6m2
2. Land type: Industrial land(M)
3. Land scope: East: farmland
West: the straw power plant
South: farmland
North: the access road of the straw power plant
4. Technical index:
(1) Floor area ratio: not exceed 0.8
(2) Building density: not exceed 40%
(3) Green ratio: no less than 30%
5. Floor number: based on the functional requirement.
6. Building space: be in accordance with the relevant standards of
fire proof and power plant.
7. Construction limit:
(1) Distance between the construction work and boundary of site:
1 0.Om to the river bank, more than 3m for others;
(2) lm for fence wall.
Entrance and exit, parking and transportation: main entrance and exit
are set in the north side of the land; the parking and transportation are
3



arranged inside the land.
8. Drainage: the drainage system is connected to the city drainage
network...
9. Environment management
(1) It is an industrial land and should not be used to build the
integrated building containing residential house.
(2) It is appropriate to construct buildings with modem architectural
style and fully reflect modem industry.
10. If there is any unstated requirement, please refer to Rules on
Management Technology of Jiangsu Urban Planning.
The proposal for site selection is only the management basis of the
application or approval of Feasibility Study Report of Construction
Projects. If the Feasibility Study Report is not approved, the proposal
become invalid; if approved, the general layout drawing and
construction design scheme should be submitted to us.
Rudong Construction Bureau
4



'fIY@fffY|+*$ '~w
1 '( M 8 OZ) )K4-k 9 *98CI WROP$4
fi ->Xt*9 gSZ dg



I



id M
iiE
2It     2MW *- $2&, *- tT.;,? t,Ft rr EE t+gs
ffl Jgi 13864.6 X-F½1/ (20.8) M,  AR-.
o AiViV VA  it A041V ¢V-A1
itil] 4A,]ffifiz,44thti 0i
f qs
4,.A A,'di'.



t
i
i
i
i
i
i
I
I



'EbLr'
MOE Sx (200) 056'1
itxji WE+4tJ*2tt lit*4*tt
i 1i1 it it 4- 4+ OT@ 4tlf 3t 40- A8
L21- Jiag 0#  *f f qkN k
t~ tt iA iR 3Qf 99a\ /
iA3t1#1 lmfMrtMP &-U.iR-ei
Ai R JiOC: I 13864.6f'
A*#  AitA:  TgkI A 5 (M)
-!b timA N i:
O-ilk      h 9 R:JFAf
FT                A itfi FM
2___  DLi4
R 3, MiWAV: >30%
~~~i1 flA. RMg9): b ttZ
l X;œmPf-n;WSe0.0*ak±, Xlm!fftA3*



I



Vw H
<                                                %i  J M
-3 gmXfis
4r-
o     o  Mt  ¢
i              v
,,,N , . |k,
cq -E 5# +    T Y                     NX;i? kK               04 f ri
-7-  '-   r-                       K~ P11~q ,



I



