                                             Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                            ReportNo: 28240-MAU




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                 ONA

                                         PROPOSEDCREDIT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR30.1MILLION
                                 (USD45.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                TO THE

                GOVERNMENTOF THE ISLAMICREPUBLICOF MAURITANIA

                                                 FORA

                   COMMUNITY-BASEDRURALDEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                            March25,2004




RuralDevelopmentIV
CountryDepartment 15
AfricaRegion

This documenthas arestricteddistributionandmay beusedbyrecipients only inthe performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout WorldBank
authorization.

                             CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                      ExchangeRate EffectiveDate: March 25, 2004

                             Currency Unit = MauritanianOuguiyas
                                    US$l.O    = MRO260
                                    SDR 1.0 = US$1.4952



                                      FISCALYEAR
                          January 1         -       December31

                       ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADC      Associationde DBveloppementCommunautaire(Village Community Association)
ASP      AgriculturalServicesProject
ASPEN    Africa SafeguardPoliciesEnhancement
AVB      Agent de Vulgarisation de Base(Village-levelExtensionAgent)
CAS      CountryAssistance Strategy
CBA      CostBenefitAnalysis
CBRD     Community-BasedRuralDevelopment
ccu      CentralCoordinationUnit
CDD      Community-DrivenDevelopment
CESP     CountryEnvironmentalStrategyPaper
CFAA     CountryFinancialAccountabilityAssessment
CMAT     CadreMobiled'Appui Technique(RegionalTechnicalAssistanceOfficer)
CP       Comitede Pilotage(SteeringCommittee)
CPAR     Country ProcurementAssessmentReview
CRD      ComiteRegionalde DBveloppement(RegionalDevelopmentCommittee)
DAF      Director o fAdministration & Finance
DLC      DepartmentofLocal Collectivities
DPSE     Directiondes Politiqueset du Suivi-Evaluation(Directiono fPolicyandMonitoringand Evaluation
EA       EnvironmentalAssessment
ESMF     Environment& Social ManagementFramework
EU       EuropeanUnion
FD       FinanceDepartment
FMC      FinancialManagementConsultant
FMR      FinancialMonitoringReport
FMS      FinancialManagementSystem
FY       FiscalYear
GDP      GrossDomesticProduct
GEF      GlobalEnvironmentFacility
GIRM     Governmentor the Islamic Republicof Mauritania
GIRNEM   GestionIntegrCe des RessourcesNaturellesde 1'EstMauritanien(IntegratedNaturalResource
         Managenmento fEastMauritania
GIS      GeographicalInformationSystems
GTZ      GesellschaftFuertechnischeZusammenarbeit(GermantechnicalCooperation)
ICR      ImplementationCompletionReport
IDA      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IDF      InstitutionalDevelopmentFund
IDPIAM   IntegratedDevelopmentProjectfor IrrigatedAgriculture inMauritania
IFAD     InternationalFundfor AgriculturalDevelopment
ISA      InternationalStandards onAuditing

   KDP        KecamatanDevelopmentProgram
   KPI        Key PerformanceIndicators
   M&E        Monitoring & Evaluation                            FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
   MAED       Ministry oTf Economic Affairs and Development(Ministere des Affaires Economiqueset du
              Developpement)
   MDG        Millennium DevelopmentGoals
   MDFE       Ministry of Rural Development&Environment (Ministere duDeveloppementRural et de
              1'Environnement)
   MOF        Ministry of Finance(Ministere des Finances)
   NGO        Non-governmental Organizations
   NRM        National Resource Management
   OED        Operations Evaluation Department
   PACV       Village Communities SupportProgram(Projet dAppui aux CommunautBs Villageoises)
   PANE       National Action for the Environment (Plan d'ActionNationale pour 1'Environnementet le
              DkveloppementRurale)
   PAN-LCD    National Action Planto fight Desertification (Plan &Action National- Lutte Contre la
              Desertification)
   P A W      Projet d'Amtnagement Rural enzones Pluviales (Rainfed Areas RuralDevelopment Project)
   PASK       Projet Aftout et Sud Karakoro (Aftout and SouthKarakoro Project)
   PASS       Projet d'Appui au Secteur de la Sante (Health Sector Support Project)
   PMP        Pest ManagementPlan
   PNDSE      Education Sector Development Program(ProgramNational de Dkveloppement du Secteur de
              1'Education)
   PNIR       National Rural Infrastructure Project (Projet National d'InfrastrucuresRurales)
   PPF        Project PreparationFacility
   PRLP       Regional Poverty ReductionProgram(Programme Regional de Luttecontre la Pauvretk)
   PRSC       Poverty Reduction StrategyCredit
   PRSP       Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
   PSR        Project Status Report
   QBS        Quality BasedSelection(SBlectionBaske sur la QualitB)
   QCBS       Quality and Cost BasedSelection(SelectionBasCe sur la Qualitk et le Coot)
   RCU        Regional Coordination Unit
   RME        Rural Micro-Enterprises
   RNRMP      RainfedNaturalResource ManagementProject
   RPF        ResettlementPolicy Framework
   RVP        Regional Vice President
   SA         SpecialAccount
   SOE        Statement o fExpense
   TOR        TermsofReference
   TT         Task Team
   UNCACEM    UnionNationale des CooperativesAgricoles et de Credit et d'Epargne Mutualiste (National Union
              ofRuralMutual Savingsand Credits)
   USD        United StatesDollar
   VCDP       Village Community Development Plans
   VCIP       Village Community InvestmentPlans



                                Vice President:               Callisto E.Madavo
                             Country Director:                A. DavidCraig
                               Sector Manager:                Mary A. Barton-Dock
                           Task Team Leader:                  Ismael Ouedraogo


This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients onlyin
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                      MAURITANIA
                          Community-BasedRuralDevelopment

                                       CONTENTS

                                                                Page

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1.  Country and sector issues

2.  Rationale for Bank involvement

3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.  Lendinginstrument

2.  Project development objective andkey indicators

3.  Project components

4.  Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design

5.  Altematives considered and reasons for re-iection

C. IMPLEMENTATTON                                                8
1.  Partnership arrangements                                     8
2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements                8

3.  Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results                 10

4.  Sustainability                                               10

5.  Critical risksand possible controversial aspects             11

6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants                          12

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY                                             13
1,  Economic and financial analyses                              13

2.  Technical                                                    13

3.  Fiduciary                                                    13

4.  Social                                                       14
5.  Environment                                                  14

6.  Safeguard policies                                           14
7,  Policy exceptions and readiness                              15

Annex 1: Country and Sector or Program Background                                 16

Annex 2: M a j o r Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies    20

Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring                                          22

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description                                             28

Annex 5: Project Costs                                                            33

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                                              34

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                        36

Annex 8: Procurement                                                              47

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                                           53

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues                                                 55

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                                      57

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File                                            59

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                                          60

Annex 14: Country at a Glance                                                     61

                                         MAURITANIA

                         Community-BasedRuralDevelopmentProject

                                  ProjectAppraisalDocument

                                           AfricaRegion

                                              AFTS4

Date: March25,2004                             Team Leader: IsmaelOuedraogo (AFTS4)
Country Director: A. DavidCraig (AFC15)        Sector@):General agriculture,fishingand forestry sector
                                               (40%);0ther social services (30%);Roads and highways
                                               (lO%);Sanitation(10%);Agro-industry (10%)
Sector Manager: MaryA. Barton-Dock(AFTS4)      Theme(s): Ruralservices and infrastructure(P);Landmanagement
                                               (P);Other ruraldevelopment (P);Infrastructureservicesfor private
                                               sector development (P);Decentralization(P)
Project ID: PO81368                            Environmentalscreening category: B
Lending Instrument: SIC
                -_________________-___________ Safeguardscreening category: S2
                                      Program FinancingData       ______________________________

.] Loan[XICredit [ ] Grant [] Guarantee[ ] Other:
rota1Bank financing(US$m.):           45.0
'roposed terms:                       StandardCredit
3race Period(Years):                  10
fears to Maturity:                    40
Clommitmentfee:                       Standard
ServiceCharge:                        Standard

                                      FinancingPlan (US$m.)

Source                                       Local                     Foreign                     Total
Borrower                                      5.1                         0.0                       5.1
IDA                                          39.2                         5.8                      45.0
Beneficiaries                                 7.9                         0.0                       7.9
Total:                                       52.2                         5.8                      58.0
Borrower: Governmentofthe Islamic Republic ofMauritania(GRIM)
Responsibleagency: Ministry ofRuralDevelopmentandEnvironment (MDRE)
Estimated disbursement (Bank
             FY     FY05                         FY07              FY08               FY09            FYI0
         Annual      4.8           7.6             9.4              11.4               12.4             12.4
    Cumulative       4.8           12.4           21.8              33.2               45.6             58.0

Project implementation period:        August 2004- June 2010
Expected effectiveness date:          August 08, 2004
Expected closing date:                December31,2010
Doesthe project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant                        [Cl] Yes [x] No
respects?Re$ PADA.3




                                                  1

      the projectrequire any exceptions from Bank policies? Re$ PAD D.7             [01Yes [XI   N o
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                         [01Yes [U]No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [01Yes [XI  No

Does the project include any critical risksrated "substantial" or "high"?            [U] Yes [XI No
Re$ PAD C.5

Does the project meetthe Regionalcriteria for readiness for implementation? Re$
PAD D.7                                                                              [XIYes []No

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The development objective o fthe Community-Based RuralDevelopment Project (CBRD) is to improve
the living conditions of project-supported village communities, interms of sustainable income increase,
access to basic socio-economic services, and improved natural resource management practices.

Project description Re$ PAD B.3.a,Technical Annex 4
Component A: Capacity Buildingtargets village communities, rural communes, agricultural services anc
rural micro-enterprises.
Component B: InvestmentFunds providesthe means to village communities to implementtheir
development plans andto rural communes to improve accessto roads at the local level.
component C: Management and Monitoringand Evaluationconcernsthe requiredset of activities for thc
project's management and accountability as to the M&Eof outcome, outputs and inputs.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany?Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01);
Pest Management (OP 4.09)
Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Re$ PAD C.7

Board presentation: April 20,2004

Loadcredit effectiveness: August 08,2004

Covenants applicable to project implementation: Before Effectiveness, as negotiated, the project will (a
open the Project Account and make the initial deposit; (b) appoint the auditors; (c) formally establish th
CCU and CP; (d) complete the CCU's staff by recruiting (i) administrative and financial director; (ii
                                                               an
an internal auditor (iii)a procurement specialist; and (iv) an information technology specialist; (e
establish a computerized financial management system; (f) establish a monitoring and evaluation system
and (8) adopt the project execution plan(PEP).




                                                     2

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country and sector issues
Country Overview and the PRSP
Mauritania is a Heavily-Indebted Poor Country (HIPC), with a per capita GDP o f US$350
(2002) and a poverty rate of 46.3 percent (2000). It is one of Africa's largest states, with some
1.1 million square kilometers, but over 90 percent o f the land is desert. The population i s small
(2.5 million), but growing rapidly at 2.4 percent per year. Despite continued rural-urban
migration, the rural sector provides employment for about 64 percent of the labor force and
remains a main source of income for the population. The rural areas also have the highest
concentration ofthe poor (75 percent), although the overall poverty rate has declined since 1990.

Since 1992, the Government of the Islamic Republic o f Mauritania (GIRM) has been
implementing a wide range o f policy, economic and sector reforms. Mauritania was one of the
first countries to present a full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in 2001 and has been
implementing it satisfactorily since then. The PRSP lays out four pillars aimed at: (i)stimulating
accelerated and redistributivegrowth; (ii) anchoring growth inthe economic environment of the
poor barticularly in the rural sector); (iii)developing human resources and ensuring universal
access to basic infrastructure and services; and (iv) strengthening institutional capacities and
governance. The PRSP is to be implemented through Regional Poverty Reduction Programs
(PRLP) for each of the 13 wilayas (regions). With respect to its second pillar, the PRSP
recognizes that developing and diversifying the rural sector i s essential to developing trade,
reducing production costs and enhancingthe competitiveness o fthe economy.

Constraintsto RuralDevelopment
The rural sector faces major challenges, as it must overcome a complex mix of economic,
environmental andinfrastructure constraintsthat impederural growth and development.
Narrow and degraded natural resource base. Agricultural activities take place within a
narrow strip o f about 200 km wide and under low and erratic rainfall often interrupted by
drought spells. The limited arable land is further threatened by soil-degrading practices and
advancing dunes formations, and the biodiversity is being reduced from over-exploitation of
forest formations. The great potential for expanded irrigated agriculture in the South, along the
SenegalRiver, entails a significant investmentand environmental challenges.
Limited transport infrastructureto access marketsand services. The vastness of the country
i s a challenge to the development of a road network. Public investments compounded the
problem by overlooking the rural space altogether. Poorly implementedtransport policies, which
result inmonopolized transport services, further exacerbate the isolation o frural populations.

Limited supply of productive services. The lack or inadequacy of agricultural services is a
major factor of low agricultural productivity. The lack andpoor quality of services provided by a
rural private sector, with little capacity, contributes to a further reduction of agricultural
productivity anddampens ruralpopulations' prospects for economic diversification.
Limitedlocalownershipin publicinvestments.With a lingeringtop-downapproachlimiting
participation inpublic investmentprograms, rural communities are not fully empoweredto align
public investmentswiththeir prioritiesandtake ownership to maintain them.



                                                1

Limited access to investment and working capital. The rebuilding agricultural credit system
remains circumscribed to irrigated agriculture, with yet no viable rural micro-finance system to
complement it. The limited access to capital prevents rural communities from acquiring assets
and services to boost agricultural productivity anddiversify into non-farm activities.
Land tenure and pastoral code. The land tenure law is being implemented in high value
irrigated land and not much yet in rainfed areas. More pressing in these areas, however, is the
implementation o fthe pastoral code to help resolve conflicts betweenfarmers andherders.

Rural Development Strategy
The various strategies in the rural sector, on the basis of which Mauritania designed its PRSP,
cover all key aspects of the project. These strategies include the 1998 (revised in2001) General
Policies and Strategies for Rural Sector Development through the Year 2015; the 1999 Letter of
Development Policy for Irrigated Agriculture through the Year 2010; the 2001 Agro food
Strategy; the 2000 Pastoral Code; the 1994 Country Environmental Strategy Paper (CESP); and
the soon to be updated Environmental Strategy. Also relevant to the sector issues i s the 1986
Decentralization Strategy applied to rural communes in 1989.

The long-term Rural Development Strategy aims to: (i)       facilitate the growth of the sector to
ensure the country's food security; (ii) an equitable access to the sector's resources; (iii)
                                        ensure
increase the supply and availability of public goods and services necessary for the sustainable
development o f the sector; and (iv) develop the managerial capacities for integrated and
participatory rural development. The Letter of Development Policy for Irrigated Agriculture
ushered in the full liberalization of rice marketing and new incentives for agricultural
diversification inthe SenegalRiver Valley. The Agro-food Strategy identifies import substitution
and export niche markets, as growth sectors inthe short and mediumterms.

The (2002) "Livestock Contribution to Poverty Reduction and Economic Growth" study shows
that over the last 20 years the livestock sector has made an unrecorded but significant
contribution to overall economic growth and to poverty alleviation. Using this study, a Letter of
Livestock Development Policy was drafted in2004 to complement the Pastoral Code. That letter
andthe implementation decree of this Code were elements of the conditions for negotiations.

The CESP led to the adoption (in 2002) of the National Action Plan to fight Desertification
(PAN-LCD), and, with UNDP's assistance, to the initiation of a new environmental strategy
through the NationalAction Plan for the Environment (PANE).
2. Rationale for Bank involvement
The World Bank's involvement in Mauritania's rural sector is rooted in its new "Strategy and
Business Plan for Reaching the Rural Poor". This strategy purports to: (i) on those that are
                                                                            focus
the most disadvantaged-the     rural poor; (ii) address rural areas in their entirety and promote
broad-basedrural growth and service provisionbothon- and off-farm; (iii)     forge alliance with all
stakeholders; and (iv) refine Bank's approach to respond to changes inthe ever-evolving global
arena that have a direct impact upon its clients-including     changes in trade policies, climate,
agricultural science, andtechnology.

The World Bank's support to rural development inMauritaniapursues objectives widely shared
by other development partners and stakeholders, as all have unambiguously approved the
country's PRSP. The proposed project directly reflects this commitment and thus, Bank's
activities and policies under this project fit well with those o f other development partners and


                                                 2

stakeholders. To ensure this during project preparation, the World Bank team actively sought the
participation and collaboration of other development partners and stakeholders through working
visits, official meetings, and well-attended seminars to discuss the results o fpreparation studies.

The World Bank brings to bear its wide experience inknowledge sharing, capacity building, and
implementation of Community-Driven Development (CDD)-type programs from various parts of
the world. In this project, the Bank's unique contribution lies in anchoring innovative ideas to
successfully tested development activities in a preceding project. The innovations include (i)
designing and honing the interface between community development plans (at village-level) and
communal development plans (at the municipal level), (ii)        kick-starting a rural road strategy
through the treatment of critical points at the village level, and (iii)
                                                                      addressingrural areas intheir
entirety andpromoting broad-basedrural growth and service provisionboth on- and off-farm by
addressingthe lack o f capacity o fruralmicro enterprises.
3. Higher levelobjectivesto which the project contributes
The project has a poverty focus and will contribute to two Millennium Development Goals
(MDG): (i)eradicating extreme poverty and hunger; and (ii)ensuring environmental
sustainability inrural areas--throughincreased incomes and the improvement of natural resource
management o f supported rural communities. It is fully aligned with the country's sector
strategies and overall Poverty Reduction Strategic Framework. It also supports Mauritania's
decentralization process by strengtheningthe capacities of rural communes andvillage grass-root
organizations.

The CBRD is in line with the FY03-05 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS--Report No. 24122
MAU), for which it constitutes an implementation tool. During this CAS, the World Bank
intendsto gradually phase-in Poverty Reduction Strategic Credits (PRSC), but would continue to
support selected investment projects that directly target poverty reduction, institutional
strengthening and capacity building. The proposedproject falls precisely inthis realm.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument
The Community-Based RuralDevelopmentproject (CBRD) is a six-year operation financed with
an IDA Credit ($45 million) and contributions from the Government ($5.1 million) and direct
beneficiaries ($7.9 million). It is a follow-up to the Rainfed Natural Resource Management
Project (RNRMP) with a broader coverage (700 new ADCs-Associations                de De'veloppement
Communautaire versus 295 ADCs under the RNRMP) and scope (dealing directly with rural
communes, rural roads, decentralized agricultural services, and rural micro enterprises). It
complements the other Bank-financed rural operation-the         Integrated Development Project for
Irrigated Agriculture inMauritania (IDPIAM), which focuses on irrigated areas.
2. Projectdevelopment objectiveand key indicators
The development objective of the CBRD is to improve the living conditions ofproject-supported
village communities in terms o f sustainable income increase, access to basic socio-economic
services, and improved natural resource management practices. The project would achieve its
objective through capacity building (targeting village communities, rural municipalities and
suppliers of support services to communities), and investments in economic, social and
environmental sub-projects implementedby these communities. The CBRD has a poverty focus
reflected in its strategy and its design. It will measure progress toward achieving its outcome


                                                   3

through the following performance indicators to be measured by using a combination of
quantitative and qualitative approaches:


   0   At least 75% ofincome-generatingsub-projects implementedbyADCs have a financial
       rate o f returnabove 10%;
   0   80% of ADCs perceive significant improvement inenvironmental sustainability because
       of project interventions;
   0   80% of ADCs perceive significant improvement inquality o f life because ofthe project
       interventions;
   0   The quantitative impact evaluation ofthe project is positive.
3. Projectcomponents
The project includes three main components selected to directly contribute to its outcome and
simplify its implementation: Component A: Capacity Building; Component B: Investment
Funds;and Component C: Project ManagementandMonitoringandEvaluation.
Component A. Capacity Buildingreflects the fact that the long-lasting impact of community
investments critically depends on: (i) organizational and managerial capacities of village
                                        the
communities to design and implement effective development plans; and (ii)the technical
capacity ofproviders of services to these communities. Itcomprisesfour sub-components.

   0   Sub-Component Al: Capacity BuildinP of ADCs targets 700 new and 150 old ADCs.
       The sub-component provides consultant services for diagnosis and design of
       developmenthnvestment plan; training in organization, management of funds, planning,
       and operating expenses for follow-up visits to ADCs. The expected outputs are
       strengthened organizational and managerial capacities measured by index indicators,
       tested during preparation. Intermediary outputs are ADCs' development and investment
       plans.

   0   Sub-component A2: Capacity Building of Rural Municipalities targets the ten selected
       rural communes. It assists these communes to design communal development plans that
       integrate village community development plans and, through funds provided under
       component B, to implement-with the participation of villages-various       civil works for
       easy access to roads at the local level. The number of selected rural communes i s limited
       inorder to ensure that: (i) village-commune interface is tested properly; and (ii)
                                  the                                                       each
       commune implements a critical mass of rural road works to make a difference. This sub-
       component supports rural communes with limited office equipment, consultant services,
       training, and operating expenses for follow-up visits. The key expected outputs are: (i)
       the strengthened capacity of rural communes to enter into contracts with service
       providers to implement small road infrastructure; and (ii)  a Strategy for Rural Roads at
       Local Level.

   0   Sub-componentA3: Capacity Buildingof Ag;ricultural Services targets crop and livestock
       research-development and extension services and statistical, environmental and rural
       training agencies that provide services to local communities. An emphasis i s put on
       decentralizedunits, which the Ministryof Rural Development and Environment (MDRE)
       i s fully committed to support as part of its (Bank-assisted) restructuring. This sub-
       component supports these services on a contractual basis with civil works (rehabilitation



                                                4

       of infrastructure), equipment and vehicles, office supplies, and incremental operational
       expenses. These agencies are expected to provide satisfactory services to ADCs, to be
       assessed by the ADCs themselves.


    0  Sub-component A4: Capacity Building of Rural Micro-Enterprises (RME) targets the
       growth of existing rural micro-enterprises (invillages, rural communes and small market
       centers) that directly supply investment goods and maintenance services to ADCs. This
       sub-component supports studies/surveys, training, limited matching funds for the
       acquisition of critical equipment to strengthen the technical capacities of selectedRMEs,
       and operating expenses for follow-up visits. The key outputs ofthis sub-componentare in
       terms of the total number of enterprises reached and the RMEs' satisfaction with the
       services provided.
Component B: The Investment Funds are key to the project's success, as they provide the
means to implementvillage and communal development plans, while giving these communities
the opportunity to put into practice their strengthenedcapacities. These funds will bring benefits
to poor people and improve their social, environmental and economic conditions. They represent
66 percent o f total project cost and 79 percent of IDA'Sfinancing. They comprise two sub-
components.

    0  Sub-component B1:Village Investment Fundstarget poor village communities, providing
       them with capital input to implement their development plans. Giventhe demand-driven
       nature of these plans, investments are not known ex-ante. However, the project can
       expect outputs to include: (i)     investments in village wells, soil/water conservation to
       boost agricultural production (dikes and small dams); (ii)       agricultural diversification
       (village gardens); (iii)livestock health activities (vaccination parks), targeted activities to
       protect the natural resource base (dune fixation, vegetal cover regeneration), and various
       other income-generating activities on- and off-farm (mills, village stores, agricultural
       rental equipment). A Global Environment Facility (GEF) component will complement
       the project inareas of natural resource managementthat concerns more thanone village.
       The key expectedoutput is the successful completion of village communities' investment
       plans.

    0  Sub-component B2. Rural Communal Road Fundsprovides the selected rural communes
       (inA2) with capital input earmarkedfor the removal of critical points to improve access
       to rural roads at the local level. The key expected output is the number o f small works on
       rural roads realized by rural communes with the participation and contribution of village
       communities.

Component C: Project Managementand Monitoringand Evaluation concerns the required
set of activities for the project's management and accountability as to the Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) of the outcome, the outputs and the inputs. The project will aim to avoid the
preceding project's shortcomings highlighted in lessons learned below. It includes two sub-
components.

    0  Sub-component C1: Project Management and Coordination concerns the Project Central
       Coordination Unit (CCU) and its decentralized Regional Coordination Units (RCU). This
       sub-component supports the CCU and RCUs with vehicles and equipment, office
       supplies, consultant services for studies, training, and operating expenses (salaries and


                                                  5

        utilities). The key expected outputs are tied to good performance o f the computerized
        financial management system.

    0   Sub-component C2: Monitoring and Evaluation concems the monitoring o f the Key
        Performance Indicators (KPI) and evaluation o f the project impact. This sub-component
        provides vehicles and computer equipment and software, consultant services, and
        operating costs. This unit i s expected to produce timely periodic reports, including on
        KPI.

Ofthe sector issues discussed above, the project will specifically address:

    0   The limited local ownership and empowerment, through the implementation o f the
        village and commune capacity building;
    0   The limited access to investment and working capital, through implementation o f the
        Village Investment Funds, which cover not only farm and environmental activities, but
        also non-agricultural activities on- and off-farm;
    0   The limitedsupply o fproductive services, through the implementation o f capacity
        buildingactivities o fagricultural services andrural micro-enterprises;

    0   The limited transport infrastructure, through the implementation o f Communal
        Investment Fundsto treat critical points inthe rural communal road network.
4. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The World Bank has been involved inMauritania's agricultural sector since 1971, in support o f
investments in irrigation, livestock development, agricultural services and natural resource
management efforts. The CBRD's design draws from the wealth o f experience accumulated in
these projects, as well as inlessons leamed from analytical work and intemational best practices.
Moreover, the CBRD builds on the experience from other development partners working in
Mauritania (IFAD, EU, UNDP, and bilateral agencies). The project pays particularly close
attention to lessons distilled inthe Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) o f past projects,
OED sectorhhematic analyses, and on-going successful projects, notably the Bank-financed
KecamatanDevelopment Program (KDP) inIndonesia. Itmade wide use o f material available on
the Bank's CDD website andinproject statusreports (PSR) o fon-going CDD-related projects.

Mauritania's Bank-financed Second Livestock project showed that: (i)tapping a community's
organizational capacity and commitment to decision-making i s extremely effective; (ii)     project
design should always be kept simple and, when required, restructuring should aim to simplify
even more; and (iii)  relevant monitoring indicators should be clearly identified.

Bank-financed Agricultural Services Project (ASP) faired poorly because o f inefficient financial
management and weak decentralization o f agricultural service delivery. The CBRD will avoid
such pitfalls by relying on a strong financial management system (Sub-component C l ) and more
effective decentralized unitsto support communities (Sub-component A3).
Mauritania's RNRMP performed satisfactorily in building the capacity o f ADCs and providing
them with a reasonable infrastructure base to leverage sustainable socio-economic development.
However, its computerized financial management and M&E systems were deficient. The CBRD
has retained pertinent lessons from this project, e.g., (i)empowered rural communities are
emboldened to steer Government technical services toward their needs and thus initiate the
process to reverse the trend toward impoverishment; (ii)   creating a critical mass o f investments
of various types helps ensure that the generated wealth is widely shared within the community-


                                                  6

through notably additional creation of revenue and employment; (iii) the demand-driven
                                                                         within
approach, local communities must be trained to balance short-term and village-oriented interests
with long-term investmentsand inter-village resource management; and (iv) M&E i s never to be
overlooked, no matter how successful aproject might appear.

The CBRD also pays particular attention to the Indonesian KDP, a widely recognized success-
story that has expanded from 25 villages in 1998 to currently 28,000. The basis o f this
community development initiative is the provision o f block grants directly to villages to finance
grass-root level development initiatives. The KDP is based on lessons relevant to the CBRD,
namely that: (i)  the existence of community-initiated organizations leads to better participation;
and (ii) there i s limited scope for village participation in local government planning. The KDP
extols the case that when people are empowered, things get done better because o f their direct
interest in the success achieved. Helping villagers to plan and manage their own initiatives,
contributes to advance the decentralization process.

Both the Village Communities Support Program (PACV) in Guinea and the National Rural
Infrastructure Project (PNIR) in Senegal neededto pilot the approachof direct transfer of funds
to communities in a few regions before attempting to apply it to the whole country. The PNIR
further found that aruralcommunal developmentplancould take more than one year to design.
5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Reflecting the experience and lessons learned above, the CBRD's design builds on a CDD,
demand-driven approach to sustainable development, with the following key features: (i)active
participation of grass-root communities; (ii)  financial mechanisms to satisfy community priority
needs, while promoting good natural resources practices; (iii)   decentralized project management;
(iv) contractual arrangements for decentralized service delivery; (v) promotion o f rural micro-
enterprises; and (vi) strong emphasis on monitoring and evaluation. The project considered but
rejected three main alternative options for reasonsexplainedbelow.
Natural Resource Management (")-centered                 operations tend to be supply-driven and
focus more on geographical units than on people and their priority needs.           In particular, a
watershed management-centered approach for the whole CBRD was rejected because not all
NRMissues (e.g., pastoral code, inter-village resources)fall withinthe purviewofthis approach.
The CBRD focuses primarily on local communities and their priority needs, and then ensures
that implementation ofthese needs take account ofproper NRM.Despite its name, the preceding
project (RNRMP) followed more the CDD than the NRM approach. A GEF component will
complement the project inareas o fNRMthat concern more than one village.
Decentralization i s viewedas ahigher-level objective-to       which the project contributes-rather
than the CBRD's main focus. Mauritania's nascent decentralization process is the focus of the
government and several donor-supported programs, including the forthcoming Bank-financed
Capacity Building project. There i s no need for the CBRD to duplicate these efforts. Onthe other
hand, the poorest villages would have little opportunity to participate in socio-economic
development if they are not the focus of targeted operations. Indeed, Mauritania's villages,
deprived of legal status, are also disconnected with their communes by great distances.
Furthermore, a rural commune's sphere of competence is on inter-village social services and not
on income-generating activities at village level. Lessons learned in Mauritania and elsewhere
(e.g., Indonesia's KDP) indicate that a focus on grass-root organizations (granted a legal status),
serves well the priority needs of the local communities while it strengthens the decentralization


                                                  7

process by empowering these communities. The CBRD will work with selected communes to
initiate ways o f integrating village and communal development plans from the bottom up.
Social Funds support social infrastructure through one-time operations in response to specific
urgent needs expressed by the community, but generally eschew comprehensive village
community development plans over the medium to long-term. The CBRD will support income-
generating activities ifdemanded, but will not directly support social services such as school and
healthunits becausethese are provided by sectoral (including Bank-financed) projects.

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements
Several development partners active in the rural sector in Mauritania were consulted during
project preparation. These agencies did not consider co-financing the project, but bought into the
project's commitment to pursue a close collaborationwith them duringproject implementationto
share experiences and to complement each other intheir interventions.
2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements
Overall guidance will be provided by a project Steering Committee, chaired by the Ministry o f
Economic Affairs and Development (MAED) and including key ministries involved inproject
activities (Rural Development,         Interior, Health, Education,   Equipment, Water,      etc.),
representatives from elected local governments (communes), and civil society (NGOs). The
modus operandi o fthe committee is spelled out inthe ImplementationManual.
The implementation o fthe project will be the responsibility o fthe CBRD's Central Coordination
Unit(CCU), and under the tutelage ofthe MDRE.The CCUwill comprise a management cadre
(Coordinator, Director o f Administration and Finance, Internal Auditor and Procurement
Specialist), and experts inkey project's aspects: M&E, capacity buildingkraining o f community,
rural infrastructure (sub-projects and rural roads), agricultural services contracting and
coordination o f service delivery, natural resources/environmental safeguard issues, and
gendedsocial safeguard issues. The CCU will also include assistants dealing with project
communication, logistics, computer systems, and the registeringo f ADCs under Law No. 098-
64. Project staff will have a two-year renewable performance-contract and, if necessary, their
number may be adjusted during implementation.

Project management will be decentralized to the regional level (wilaya), with a Regional
Coordination Unit (RCU) under the tutelage o f the MDRE's Dklkgation Rkgionale. The RCU's
core staff will comprise: the regional coordinator, also responsible for monitoring and
evaluation; an accountant, mandated to assist ADCs in financial matters; and a data
entqddatabase operator. Inlocating the R C U inthe Regional Delegations, the project intends to
strengthen the capacity o f these regional units, which are key in the MDFE's efforts to
decentralize service delivery (in sub-component A3); and the regional authorities' plans to
implement the Regional Poverty ReductionPrograms.

Inthis project built around a CDD approach, the main stakeholders and implementing agencies
will ultimately be the village communities themselves. They will have the responsibility for
contracting with suppliers and service providers, for procuring the goods and services needed to
implement investmentplans, and for managing the funds that will be directly transferred to them.




                                                 8

Financial Management A Finance Department (FD), headed by the Director o f Administration
and Finance and supported by an accountant, will be established within the CCU. The FD will
have the responsibility for the financial management and accounting of the Credit. Specifically,
it will be responsible for: (i)preparing activity plans, monthly Special Account (SA)
reconciliation statements, quarterly Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), Withdrawal Schedule,
quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), and annual financial statements; and (ii)
ensuring that the project financial management arrangements are acceptable to the Government
and IDA. It will also be responsible for forwarding the reports and statements to the GIRM,
represented by the CBRD, and to IDA. The CBRD will also recruit an Internal Auditor,
professionally qualified and experienced in accounting and auditing, to monitor activities in
terms o f internal controls.

Flow o f Funds The overall project fundingwill consist o f the IDA Credit and contributions from
the Government and beneficiaries. With respect to banking arrangements, IDA will disburse the
credit through two Special Accounts (SA A and B) opened and operated by the CCU. SA-A
funds exclusively activities o fComponents A and C, andSA-Byactivities o f ComponentB.

The CCU will transfer Village Investment Funds from SA-B directly into ADCs' bank accounts
opened in regional banks. The ADCs' legal status allows them to receive such funds. However,
there i s a potential risk o f poor management and misappropriation o f funds attached to this
approach and therefore, a piloting/learning period is needed. Thus, the project will implement
this approach starting in year two, using year one to prepare ADCs and project staff for this
approach. Duringthis transition, the CCU will handle payments for goods and services procured
by ADCs. The same approach will be applied to the transfer of Communal Investment Funds
from SA-B directly to rural communes. However, direct transfers to communes face major
obstacles because not only communes cannot open bank accounts under current Mauritanian law,
but also IDA has ruled out transferring funds to communes' Treasury accounts since these funds
would likely not be available to communes in a timely basis. Until these issues are resolved by
decentralization projects, the CBRD will handle payments of goods and services procured by
rural communes.

The CCU will maintain three accounts: (i) in US Dollars to which the initial deposit and
                                             SAs
replenishments from IDA funds will be lodged; and (ii)Current Draw-down Accounts in
Ouguiyas to which draw downs from the SAs will be credited once or twice per month according
to incurred eligible expenditures--the balance on which should be zero following the immediate
payments o f eligible expenditures; and (iii)a Current Project Account in Ouguiyas to which
Counterpart Funds will be deposited. Interest income will be deposited to the respective
accounts.

Additionally, the CCU will maintain an IDA Ledger Loan Account (in Washington) in U S
Dollars/Ouguiyas/SDR to keep track o f draw downs from the IDA financing. The account will
show: (i)  deposits made by IDA; (ii)direct payments by IDA; and (iii)     opening and closing
balances.

Financial ReportingAll bank accounts will be reconciled with bank statements by the Finance
Department o f the CCU on a monthly basis. A copy o f each bank reconciliation statement
together with a copy o f the relevant bank statement will be reviewed monthly by the Internal
Auditor who will expeditiously investigate identifieddifferences.




                                                9

The CCU will prepare and submit to IDA Audited Project Financial Statements within six
months after year-end. By Project Effectiveness, relevant qualified external auditors will be
appointed by the CCU on the basis of the Terms of Reference (TORS) acceptable to IDA. The
auditors will audit the project accounts and financial statements inaccordance with International
Standards on Auditing (ISAs). The audit reports will include a single opinion on: (i) the Audited
Project Financial Statements; (ii) accuracy and propriety of expenditures made under the
                                     the
SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan
disbursements;and (iii) SpecialAccounts.
                           the
3. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of outcomes/results
The M&E system is a tool for (i)planning project assistance to beneficiaries, (ii)       decision-
making by project management at the central and local levels, and (iii)     disseminating project
performance information to outsiders. At the project-wide level, a centralized project status
database producesmonthly field reports and quarterly project reports, including reports on KPIs.
Ituses a Geographical InformationSystem(GIS) to speedupvillage diagnostics and facilitate the
verification of village investments and interventions. The central database will receive data from
the M&E activities, national databases, targeted studies and surveys, and inputs from the
dedicated CCU's financial monitoring system. During preparation, baseline data was collected
(i)establishthemethodsformeasuringkeyperformanceindicatorssuchastheorganizational
    to
and managerial capacities of village communities, and the satisfaction level for services
rendered; and (ii) identify the number and types of rural micro-enterprises present in the
                      to
village communities coveredby the preceding project.

At the local level, the project will support community-based M&E as a tool for buildingADCs'
capacity to implement their development plans. The system will concern the organization
(membershiprow, meetings, fees), contract documents, and simple accounting instrument about
sub-project's costs and revenue stream. This information will also help RCUs monitor ADCs'
performance interms of procurement andmanagement of transferred funds.

To ensure objectivity, the project will contract with third parties (the MDRE's M&E unit, other
agencies, and consultants) to measure its outcome indicators and conduct targeted studies and
surveys. Inyear one, the project will work with these parties to define an appropriate quantitative
approachto assess the project's overall impact. However, overall responsibility for the collection
of indicator data and analysis o f results rests with the M&E system located within the project
management unit and assisted by RCUs. Capacities o f the CCU and MDRE (particularly its
statistical unit) will be strengthenedso as to build complete ownership o fthe M&E systemby the
Mauritanians.

The CBRD pays attention to development communication insupport of its objectives andwill
put inplace aninformationsystemofthe project's indicators andcore features. Itwill make use
of reports and documentariesinthe localpress, rural radio, andnational TV addressedto the
general public, by supporting communication agents to visit project sites andpeoples.
4. Sustainability
This project will focus on sustainability by ensuring the following: (i) village investments are
                                                                         all
economically, financially, and environmentally sound-thus,         inherently sustainable; (ii)all
investments reflect the priority o f ADCs, which are committed to contribute (inkindor incash)
to their realization, operation and maintenance; (iii)the mix of village investment include



                                                 10

income-generating activities, so that resources will be available to help pay service fees and
maintain all village investments; (iv) there is sufficient capacity, built overtime as necessary, to
efficiently operate infrastructure; (v) connections are built between village communities and
services suppliers (input and output markets) to link villages to urban centers; (vi) the
organizational and managerial capacities are regularly monitored, evaluated (a KPI) and acted
upon as required.

The Borrower's strong commitment to the project was evident in several areas. It has retained
key staff of the RNRMP while introducing a request for a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for
the CBRD. The crop and livestock agents (AVB) that serve ADCs remain agents of the Regional
Delegations. It indicated its commitment to ADC in stressing in the RNRMP's ICR that the
"ADCs have become real partners and are well acknowledged as such at all administrative
levels". It set up a Project Preparation Steering Committee, which appropriated the novel idea in
Mauritania-suggested      by the Bank team-of presenting the results of project preparation
studies in seminars open to all key stakeholders, includingother development partners. To quote
the presidentof the steeringcommittee, this is to say that projects should no longer be prepared
on the quiet. Finally, during negotiations, the Borrower agreedto cover 60 percent (instead of 15
percent) of the project's operating costs in order to keep its total contribution at USD 5 million.
This allows the project to cover 141ruralcommunes insteadofthe 114initially planned.
5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects
According to the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), Mauritania's systems
of planning, budgeting, monitoring and controlling public resources have improved, but remain
at a level that does not provide sufficient and reasonable assurance that funds are used for the
purpose intended. The risk of waste, diversion and misuse of funds was assessed as partially
high. Because the CFAA recommendations on financial accountability reforms have not yet
been implemented, the Country Risk is assessed as partially high, and so is the overall project
risk from a financial management perspective. However, various risk mitigationmeasureshave
been agreedupon. The financial management arrangementsfor the CBRD are designedto ensure
that funds are used for the purpose intendedand that timely information is produced for project
management and government oversight to facilitate compliance with IDA fiduciary
requirements. Provided the various mitigation measures agreed on are implemented, the project
risk from a financial management perspective would be moderate, as shown inthe table below.
The rating with mitigationmeasuresis also moderatefor other risks.




                                                 11

                     Risks                               ' RiskMitigationMeasures
                                                                        , Li              .    .
                                                                                               ,"


 To Project Development Objective

 Lip service paid to ruralpoverty alleviation  Donorsmaintain dialogue with GIRM bringing to         M
 inthe wake ofoil exploitation                 bear failed experienceof shared oil wealth
                                               elsewhere

 Decentralization processstalls                Donorscontinuedialogue with GIRM on                   M
                                               decentralizationand community development

 Incentive structure revertsto favor irrigated The Bank pursuesdialogue with GIRM inthe              N
 agriculture at the expense ofrainfed          context ofPDIAIM
 agriculture
 To ComponentsResults
 Communities' capacity buildingthwarted        CBRD implementsassessmentof service                   M
 by inadequatesupport                          providers to communities

 Coordination with other programsand           Supervisionmissionsfocus and report on                M
 agencies not pursued                          coordination issues

 InherentFinancial ManagementRisks:            Strong internal audit and external audit control      M
 Inefficient or inappropriate use of funds due proceduresare implemented.
 to poor governanceat CCU

 Inefficientor inappropriateuse offunds        StrengthenADCs' capacity; implement and               M
 transferreddirectly to beneficiaries          publicized transparentmechanisms; involve local
                                               authorities and communes.

 Financial ManagementControl Risks       -     Staff training provided by the Financial
 Teething problems mayjeopardize timely        ManagementConsultant before effectiveness             M
 and accurate financial reporting and
 disbursementprocess

 Overall project implementation capacity       Institutional strengtheningplan for project
 lacking                                       management unit is implemented                        N
 Overall Rating                                                                                      M
          H=High                S = Substantial            M=Moderate                N=Lowlneg :ible

6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants
Before Effectiveness, as negotiated, the project will (a) open the Project Account and make the
initial deposit; (b) appoint the auditors; (c) formally establish the CCU and CP; (d) complete the
CCU's staff by recruiting (i) administrative and financial director; (ii) internal auditor (iii)
                                   an                                                   an
a procurement specialist; and (iv) an information technology specialist; (e)                      establish a
computerized financial management system; (0 establish a monitoring and evaluation system;
and(g) adopt the project executionplan(PEP).




                                                        12

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic and financial analyses
One cannot undertake a Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) for the whole project because (i)      benefits
o f capacity building activities defy quantification, and (ii) from investments in natural
                                                               benefits
resource management, education and health cannot be easily quantified in monetary terms.
However, one can undertake an illustrative CBA o f the income-generating activities. The
examples below show that it should not be difficult to reach a minimum o f 10 percent internal
rate o f return on average for sub-projects such as dikes and thresholds, acacia gum tree
plantation, village garden, rental o f agricultural implements, mills andvillage store.




Note: NC = not computable; NR = not relevant

2. Technical
The CBRD promotes the use o f environmentally sound investments that (i)correspond to
beneficiaries' needs and local service providers' capabilities, and (ii)lend themselves to
operation and maintenance by identified community members. It will launch training programs
to help ADCs acquire new skills that can be easily transferred. For each type o f investment likely
to be selected by ADCs, a technical note will be produced describing its specifications (including
technical description, performance, operation and maintenance procedures, costs and benefits,
etc.). Labor-intensive works would be favored if demonstrated to be technically and
economically efficient, so that employment i s generated. Local expertise, materials and
equipment would be preferred as they can generate more local incomes.
3. Fiduciary
The financial management assessments conclude that the Bank's financial management
requirements will be satisfied, provided the Loadcredit conditions and covenants are met prior
to project effectiveness. A financial management system, including records and accounts will be
maintained by the CCU. As the CCU will not be ready for report-based disbursements at
Effectiveness, it could follow at the initial stage, transaction-based disbursement procedures (i.e.
direct payment, reimbursement, and special commitments), as described in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook. During Negotiation, it was agreed that the project will prepare
quarterly financial management reports based on Annex A, sample One of the FMR Guidelines,
butcould upgrade its FMRformat duringimplementation.




                                                   13

4. Social
The project targets 700 new and 150 old ADCs, with total village population of about 350,000
people. The project design emphasizes pro-poor economic growth balanced with social and
environmental sustainability. Barriers to participation of poor communities are removed. The
social evaluation carried out during project preparation shows that women and vulnerable groups
will be presented with opportunities to participate invillage's affairs and capacity strengthening
training. The project will encourage ADCs to invest in activities reflecting women's priorities
and interests. Although villages are selected on the basis of internal social cohesion and low-
level friction with neighboring communities, the socio-cultural context may present issues that
must be dealt with. These include the existing power structures, traditional rights or entitlements
over land, and conflicts between farmers and herders over natural resources. The participatory
approach used in creating the ADC,setting their priorities and implementing their development
plans offers communities with opportunities to work out and resolve these issues. The project
will monitor social issues during diagnosis and supervision missions and using the PRSP's
participatory poverty assessments. The Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) adopted by the
Borrower is a safeguard against creating losers without adequate compensation. The CBRD will
not invest invillages where social tensions couldjeopardize its objectives.

During preparation, the participation of key stakeholders was sought through (i)     field visits and
study surveys, and (ii)   seminars organized to present results of these studies. The stakeholders
included are potential beneficiaries (as villages are not yet selected), public sector, civil society,
nongovernmental groups or individuals, and development partners. The project will contract with
private operators to provide services to communities. Regional authorities (wali and hakem) and
local government (communes), through the Regional Development Committee, will participate
inthe validation of ADCs' development. The beneficiaries will be given the responsibilities for
contracting with and assessingthe performance of providers of goods and services.
5. Environment
The CBRD aims to enhance the livelihoods of the poor through, among others, improved NRM
practices and reduced vulnerability to environmental change (e.g., loss o f vegetative cover). It
promotes the use of environmentally sound investments as described in section (2) above.
Diagnostic sessions and training programs will raise, ex-ante, environmental issues and help
ADCs internalize them intheir investment plans. Environmental sustainability will be measured,
ex-post, using third parties to ensure objectivity. By setting the signed implementation decree o f
the Pastoral Code-discussed       earlier-the CBRD strengthens the institutional framework for
environmentally sustainable resourcemanagement.

6. Safeguard policies
The CBRD is not expectedto have a significant negative environmental and social impact. The
possibility still exists of some environmental impact and because neither the beneficiaries nor the
activities have yet been identified, ASPEN has requiredthe Borrower to prepare and publish an
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), a Resettlement Policy Framework
(RPF), and a Pest Management Plan (PMP) for the CBRD. These have all been completed and
include the following: (i)systematization of environmental impact assessment for all identified
sub-projects before entering into a funding agreementwith communities; (ii) of staff and
                                                                                training
partners of the national and regional coordination units; (iii)  establishment and implementation
of an intersect consultation framework for the environmental control and monitoring; (iv)


                                                 14

reinforcement of coordination meetings of harmonization and consultation at all levels among
stakeholders; and (vi) concerted efforts of NGOs and mass media for the execution of an
Information-Education-Communication        program    aimed   at    improving   environmental
management. Annex 6 summarizesthe actions to be taken under these safeguards.
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
                                                                          Yes   No




7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness
There were no policy exceptions. .All conditions for Negotiations were met: (i)a signed
ImplementationDecree o f the Pastoral Code; (ii) a signed Livestock Development Policy Letter;
(iii)signeddecisionthatvehiclesusedundertheRNRMPwillbemadeavailabletotheCBRD;
    a
and (iv) the list of rural communes within which the CBRD will select villages. During
Negotiations, 27 other communes were added for a total of 141 rural communes when the
Government maintained its contribution (pledged during identification) of USD 5 million.




                                               15

                     Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                   MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


Country Overview and the PRSP
With a GDP per capita of $350 (2002) and a poverty rate of 46.3 percent (2000), Mauritania is
one of the world's poorest countries. It is one of Africa's largest, with some 1.1 million square
kilometers, but over 90 percent of the land area is desert. The population i s small (2.5 million),
but growing rapidly at 2.4 percent per year. Despite continued rural-urban migration, the rural
sector remains the main source of income for the population as it provides employment for an
estimated 64 percent of the labor force. Although the poverty rate has declined at the national
,levelsince 1990, still, around 75 percent of the poor are concentratedinrural areas.
Since 1992, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania (GIRM) has been
implementing a wide range of policy, economic and sector reforms. Mauritania was one of the
first countries to present a full Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in 2001 and has been
implementing it satisfactorily since then. The PRSP lays out four pillars aimed at (i)  stimulating
accelerated and redistributivegrowth; (ii)  anchoring growth inthe economic environment of the
poor (particularly in the rural sector); (iii)developing human resources and ensuring universal
access to basic infrastructure and services; and (iv) strengthening institutional capacities and
governance. The 2001 "Loi d'Orientation" on poverty reduction mandated the PRSP to be
implemented through Regional Poverty Reduction Programs (PEP), gradually elaborated for
each of the 13 wilayas (regions).       Furthermore, the PRSP recognizes that developing and
diversifying the rural sector i s essential to developing trade, reducing production costs and
enhancing the competitivenessofthe economy.

The implementation of the PRSP (as outlined in the first and second annual PRSP Progress
Reports) has highlighted the need to push forward on the following lines: (i)      promote private
sector development; (ii)  encourage a stronger response from the agricultural andlivestock sectors
(inthe economic environment ofthe poor); (iii) the development of the private sector (the
                                                   foster
main engine of growth); (iv) develop basic urban infrastructure; (v) improve health and
education for all, and (vi) modernize the public sector. With respect to (ii), the PRSP recognizes
that developing and diversifying the rural sector i s essential to developing trade, reducing
production costs andenhancingthe competitiveness o fthe economy.

Constraintsto RuralDevelopment
The agricultural and livestock sectors contribute about 20 percentto the economy, but its average
growth rate has declined in recent years (in 2000 and 2001) because o f adverse weather
conditions, particularly in the irrigated areas. The growth rate declined from 4.6 percent in the
1990s to 2.8 percent in2000 and -0.2 percent in 2001. Nevertheless, the rural sector remains a
key source of growth for the overall economy. Thus, strengthening and diversifying the
agricultural base are key objectives to ensuring that the sector plays a more important role.

The rural sector faces major challenges as it must overcome a complex mix of economic,
environmental andinfrastructure constraints that impederural development and growth.
Narrow and degraded natural resource base. Agricultural activities take place within a
narrow strip of about 200 km wide, and under low and erratic rainfall, often interrupted by



                                                  16

drought spells. This limited arable land is further threatened by soil-degrading practices and
advancing dunes formations and the biodiversity i s being reduced from over-exploitation of
forest formations. The great potential for expanded irrigated agriculture in the South along the
SenegalRiver, entails a significant investment andenvironmental challenges.
Limitedtransport infrastructureto access markets and services. The vastness of the country
i s a challenge to the development of a road network. Public investments compounded the
problem by overlooking the rural space altogether. Poorly implementedtransport policies, which
result inmonopolized transport services, further exacerbatethe isolation o f ruralpopulations.

Limited supply of productive services. The lack or inadequacy of agricultural services is a
major factor of low agricultural productivity. The lack and poor quality of services provided by
a rural private sector with little capacity contributes to a further reduction of agricultural
productivity and dampens rural populations' prospects for diversification into non-farm
productive activities.
Limited local community's ownership in public investments. A top-down approach still
lingers inthe provision of public investments, except ina few projects, such as the RNRMP, an
IDA-financed project that preceded this project. Systematized and full participation of local
communities in the design and implementation of public investment programs remains limited.
Decentralization to the rural areas has yet to fully take hold. As a result, rural communities are
not empowered to align public investments with their priorities and take ownership to maintain
them.
Limited access to investmentand working capital. Despite its recent expansion in scope and
volume (with the support of an IDA-financed project), Mauritania's agricultural credit system
(UNCACEM) remains circumscribed to irrigated agriculture. No viable rural micro-finance
system exists as yet to complement UNCACEM. The low availability of investment and
operational capital prevents rural communities from acquiring the neededproductive assets and
services to boost agricultural productivity and diversifying into higher value-added post-harvest
activities.
Land tenure and pastoral code. The land tenure law is being implemented in high value
irrigated land and not much yet in rainfed areas. More pressing in these areas, however, is the
implementation of the pastoral code to helpresolve conflicts betweenfarmers andherders.

RuralDevelopmentStrategy
The various strategies in the rural sector, on the basis of which Mauritania designed its PRSP,
cover all key aspects o f the project. These strategies includethe 1998 (revised in 2001) General
Policies and Strategies for Rural Sector Development through the Year 2015; the 1999 Letter of
Development Policy for Irrigated Agriculture through the Year 2010; the 2001 Agro-food
Strategy; the 2000 Pastoral Code; the 1994 Country Environmental Strategy Paper (CESP); and
the soon-to-be updated Environmental Strategy. Also relevant to the sector issues is the 1986
Decentralization Strategy applied to rural communes in 1989.

The long-term RuralDevelopment Strategy aims to: (i)      facilitate the growthofthe sector inorder
to ensure the country's food security; (ii)  ensure an equitable access to the sector's resources;
(iii)increase the supply and availability of public goods and services necessary for the
sustainable development o f the sector; and (iv) develop the managerial capacities for integrated
and participatory rural development. The Letter o f Development Policy for IrrigatedAgriculture



                                                 17

ushered in the full liberalization of rice marketing and new incentives for agricultural
diversification inthe SenegalRiver Valley. The Agro-food Strategy identifies import substitution
and export niche markets, as growth sectors inthe short andmediumterms.

The (2002) "Livestock Contribution to Poverty Reduction and Economic Growth" study shows
that over the last 20 years the livestock sector has made an unrecorded but significant
contribution to national economic growth andto poverty alleviation. Basedon this study, aLetter
of Livestock Development Policy was drafted in 2004 to complement the Pastoral Code. That
letter and the implementation decree of this Code were finalized as part of the conditions for
Negotiations.

The CESP led to the adoption (in 2002) of the National Action Plan to fight Desertification
(PAN-LCD), and, with UNDP's assistance, to the initiation of a new environmental strategy
through the NationalAction for the Environment (PANE).

The decentralization process, launched in 1986 (Ordinance no86-134 of April 13, 1986), was
extendedto rural areas in 1989 (withthe creation of 163 rural municipalities out of a total of 216
communes). A National Strategy o f Decentralization and Local Governance was prepared in
2002, focusing on: (i) legal and institutional framework; (ii) resources; (iii)
                        the                                         fiscal                financial
transfers from central government to the communes; (iv) managerial capacities ofthe communes;
and (v) the linkages running through decentralization and local development, good governance,
and sustainable development.
2. Rationale for Bank involvement
The World Bank's involvement in Mauritania adheres closely to the global strategic vision for
the rural sector as articulated in the Bank-wide new Strategy and Business Plan for "Reaching
the Rural Poor". This strategy purports to (i) on those that are the most disadvantaged-
                                               focus
the ruralpoor; (ii)address rural areas intheir entirety and promote broad-basedrural growth and
service provisionboth on- and off-farm; (iii) forge alliances with all stakeholders; and (iv) refine
the Bank's approach to respond to changes inthe ever-evolving global arena that have a direct
impact upon World Bank clients(inc1uding changes in trade policies, climate, agricultural
science, and technology). Giventhat developing growth inthe rural sector i s a key strategic axis
of Mauritania's PRSP, the World Bank's support to the sector i s a mainpillar of the CAS (FY03-
05) which particularly recognizesthat Mauritania's poor disproportionately live inrural areas.

The program of Bank assistance as outlined in the CAS places rural development projects at
center-stage both because of the importance o f the rural sector to growth and because o f the
direct poverty reduction activities involved in these projects. This assistance builds on the
successful experiences of the RNRMP and IDPIAM and aims to deepen and strengthen the
interventions to ensure outcomes that are more effective.         Institutional strengthening and
capacity building will continue to be core elements of the assistance programs. The focus will
continue to be CDD activities that increase income and improve access to socio-economic
services.

The World Bank's commitment to rural development in Mauritania pursues objectives widely
sharedby other development partners and stakeholders, as all have unambiguously approved this
country's PRSP. The proposed project directly reflects this commitment and thus, Bank's
activities andpolicies under this project should fit well with those of other development partners
and stakeholders.To ensure this during project preparation, the World Bank team actively sought



                                                18

the participation and collaboration o f other development partners and stakeholders through
working visits, official meetings, and well-attended seminars to discuss the results o f preparation
studies.

The World Bank brings to bear its wide experience inknowledge sharing, capacity building, and
implementation o f Community-Driven Development (CDD)-type programs from various parts o f
the world. Inthis project, the Bank's unique contribution lies in anchoring innovative ideas to
successfully tested development activities in a preceding project. The innovations include (i)
designing and honing the interface between community development plans (at village-level) and
communal development plans (at the municipal level), (ii)kick-starting a rural road strategy
through the treatment o f critical points at the village level, and (iii)
                                                                       addressing rural areas intheir
entirety and promoting broad-based rural growth and service provision both on- and off-farm by
addressing the lack o f capacity o f rural micro enterprises.




                                                    19

      Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                   MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


The following Bank-financed projects addressedissues and generatedlessonsrelevant to the
CBRD.

    0  The SecondLivestockProject(1986-1995) addressedthe deterioration of Mauritania's
       natural resourcesbase, and the organization andthe empowerment o fresourceusers
       (groups o fpastoralists) to take charge of allocated grazing areas.

    0  The Agricultural Services Project -             PSA (1994-2000) addressed, but with
       shortcomings, the supply of agricultural services to agricultural producers, through a
       demand-driven perspective and deconcentration of the Ministry of Rural Development
       andthe Environment (MRDE).

    0  The RainfedNaturalResource ManagementProject- RNRMP (1998-2003), followed
       a CDD approachrather thanatraditional NRMapproach inspite of its name. The CBRD
       has incorporatedseveral good lessonsofthis predecessoroperation.

    0  The Integrated Development Program for Irrigated Agriculture in Mauritania -
       IDPIAM, inits first phase (1999-2004) of a 3-phase APL, attempts to lay the foundations
       for a sustainable development of irrigated agriculture in technical, financial,
       environmental and socioeconomic terms. It fostered a new incentive structure that
       promotes competitive rice production and agricultural diversification.

    0  The Education Sector Development Program Project - PNDSE (2001-2006) and the
       Health Sector InvestmentProject - PASS (1998-2003), and its forthcoming follow-up
       operation, provide basic social services (primary health and primary schools) that the
       CBRD shouldnot duplicate. The CBRD will contribute to improve communities' access
       to these needed social services not by funding them, but by working with these sectoral
       operations to provide the servicesto villages and rural communes.

    0  The Urban Development Program Project PDU (2001-2006) will be approached
                                                         -
       during implementation o f the CBRD to buildsynergy inthe area ofbusiness development
       services provided by urban enterprises to rural micro-enterprises.

Other operations financed by other development partners also provided lessons to the project,
including in the areas of community empowerment and the mechanism of the flow of funds.
These are:

    0  The GTZ-financed GIRNEMproject (1992-2004) ineastemMauritania was instrumental
       inthe design of the Pastoral Code, andhas developed tools inparticipatory diagnosis of
       great interest to the project.

    0  The Poverty Reduction Project in Aftout and South Karakoro - PASK (2003-2010),
       which straddles three regions, has adopted a centralized flow of funds to rural
       municipalities and grassroots organizations, while prudentlypreparing these beneficiaries
       to direct transfer of funds.




                                                20

   0    The Rural Infrastructure Project in Rainfed Areas - P A W (2002-2004), which covered
       the Tagant and Brakna regions, also relied on centralized flow of fund to assist
        communities.

   0    The Oases Development Project 1-111(1995-2010), led by IFAD, provided a valuable
        example of a project that has moved to direct transfer of funds to local communities'
        bank accounts, after taking the time to preparethe ground for this approach.


                                                                      Implementation Development
Bank-financed                                                          Progress(IP)  Objective(DO)
Livestock                              Livestock I1                         S             S
                                       (Cr. 1658 - FY 1986)
Agricultural Adjustment                Ag Sector Adjustment and             S             S
                                       Investment
                                       (Cr. 2093 - FY 1990)
Ag. Extension, ResearchandTraining Agricultural ServicesProject            U              U
                                       (Cr 2575 - FY 1994)
Natural ResourceManagement             RainfedNatural Resource              S             S
                                       Management
                                        (Cr. 2965 - FY 1997)
Irrigation                              IntegratedProgramfor                S              S
                                        Irrigated Agriculture
Health                                  Health Sector Investment            S              S
                                        Project (PASS) 1998-2003
Education                               Education Sector                    S              S
                                        DevelopmentProgramProject
                                        (PNDSE) 2001-06
Urban Development                       Urban DevelopmentProgram           H S             S
                                        Project (PDU) 2001-06




                                                  21

                                Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring
                          MAURITANIA: Community-Based RuralDevelopment
                                               ResultsFramework

I   ProjectDevelopmentObjective           Outcome Indicators                       Useof Results Information


 Improvethe living conditionsof project-       By the endofthe projectat least      1    Gaugerevenuegenerationdirectly
supportedvillage communities interms      75% o f income-generatingsub-projects    ittributable to project
of sustainable income increase and access implementedby ADCs have afinancial
to basic socio-economic services.         rate ofreturnabove 10%

                                               By the endofthe project80% of       1     Provideopportunityto
                                          ADCs perceive improvement in              :ommunities to gauge improvementto
                                          environmentalsustainabilitybecauseof     :he environmentintheir ownterms
                                          projectinterventions.

                                               By the endofthe project 80% o f           Provide opportunityto
                                          ADCs perceive significant improvement    :ommunities to gauge improvementto
                                          inqualityof life becauseofproject        their living conditionsintheir own
                                          interventions;                           terms. Complementquantitativeimpact
                                                                                   analysis
                                               By the endof the project
                                          quantitativeimpactevaluationof project         Assess overall impact ofproject
                                          is positive                              beyondrevenue-generatedcapturedin
                                                                                   the first indicator.

                                          ResultsIndicators for Each Componenl           Use of Outcome Monitoring

                                          Component A:                             Component A:
                                               By the endofthe projectabout 700          Monitor the paceof ADCs creation
Communes, Agricultural Services, and      new ADCs, with alegalstatus are          to ensure that aminimum support in
RuralMicro-Enterprises.                   created;                                 capacity building is providedto new
                                               By the endof the project at least    ADC.
                                          80% of the ADCs have satisfactory              Monitor ADC's operational
                                          operationalcapacity;                      capacityto suggesteventual adjustment
                                               By the endof the projectat least     during implementation
                                          75% ofthe ADCs satisfactorilymanage            .Monitor  managerialcapacity of
                                          andmaintainthe investments;              ADCs for an indicationon sustainability
                                               By the endofthe project at least          Monitor capacity ofassisted rural
                                          80% ofthe communeshaveelaborateda         communes.
                                          satisfactoryprocessof communal                 Monitor ADCs' assessmentto
                                          development plans;                        suggest eventual contract arrangement
                                               By the endofthe projectA strategy    with suppliers
                                          for rural roadaccess is available;             Monitor project's outreach
                                               By the endofthe project80% ofthe     regardingrural micro-enterprises.
                                          communitiesare satisfiedby agricultural
                                          services providedto them;                      Monitor effectivenessor support
                                               By the endofthe project about 200    givento rural micro-enterprises. To
                                          micro-enterpriseshave benefitedfrom       suggest eventualadjustmentduring
                                          projectsupport;                           implementation.
                                               By the endof the project at least
                                          75% of project-supportedrural micro-
                                          enterprisesare satisfiedby the services
                                          providedto them




                                                           22

Component B. Investment Funds           Component B:                               Component B:
Village investmentfundsto implement          By the endofthe project about         D    Documentthe number of sub-
village communitydevelopmentplans       3,000 activities are implementedby        projectsonthe ground
RuralCommunalRoadFundto improve         project-supportedADCs;
access to roadat local level                 By the endofthe projectat least            Monitor the timeliness of
                                        80% ofADCs' developmentplanshave           implementingsub-projects.
                                        beentimely implemented;                         Contributeto arural roadstrategy
                                             By the endofthe projectabout 60       and development of ruralroadprojects.
                                        civil workson rural roadshavebeen               Monitor critical massof civil
                                        implemented.                              works on rural roads



Component C: Management and             Component C:                                Component C:
Monitoring & Evaluation
This component, which is notreally one,      The CBRD steeringcommittee            D    EnsureBorrower's ownership of
but is requiredinthe entireproject,     meets as scheduled;                       project
comprisestwo sub-components(i)    the        Procurementprocess(deadline) is
projectcoordinationandmanagement        assessedas satisfactory;                        Ensurethat financialmanagement
and (ii) the monitoring andevaluation.       Acceptanceof SpecialAccounts'        is adequate from Year1to Year 6 and
                                        SOE submitted for reimbursementis          that mitigation measures for financial
                                        100%;                                     risksare inplace
                                              Audit reports are on time and
                                        without reserve;                                Use M&E as tool for planningand
                                              Periodicreports are timely produced  decision-makingand as anopeningto
                                              Key partnersare satisfiedwith the   the outsideworld.
                                        database




                                                          23


I  0
   g g      sm    g     g    o  s
                             0
         oo l-    01    w    N   VI
                                l-

                 s      g
                  m          0
                             0
                 l-     w    N



                             0
                             0
                             N

    o s     g                o   s
    o    m
    l - l - l-               2   VI
                                 l-



                             0
                             si

     4
  -2
     c)
  U  CJ

     c)
  .? V
     e,

  a  e




I H
  0     g
          03  0
               \o


l o     g
  0  w         -f
               VI
          00

  "
1 1       00  0m

  0
1    3  g
          00  2



               VI

1    %
  0




 i              i

Arrangementsfor resultsmonitoring
Institutional issues: The CCU is responsible for the overall M&E system and for enforcing
results-based contracts with third-party partners inthe M&E of project performance and impact.
The M&E central unit i s responsible for the collection, management, analysis o f data o f the
central database, and the production o f the required M&E reports as defined in the M&E
ImplementationManual. The decentralized regional units assist the M&E central unit. Giventhe
country's financial risk assessment, the project will pay particular attention to financial
monitoring, as detailed in Appendix 7. The MDRE's policy and M&E unit (DPSE) will be
contracted to coordinate the impact analysis o f the project and perform other tasks. The
communication department will be responsible for disseminating the project's results to the
larger public.
Data collection: The M&E system relies on data collected at different levels.         The project
collects primary data-from    village communities and other areas-through        project staff and
contracted third parties. The M&E also draws on secondary data collected by the agricultural
statistical unit (DPSE), other Government agencies, and other projects. The GIS-based M&E
system should facilitate the collection o f such secondary data. The methods and instruments o f
data collection, management and analysis, as well as responsibilities o f partners, are spelled out
inthe M&EImplementationManual.
Capacity: The CBRD will continually upgrade and strengthen the capacity o f all staff o f the
M&Eunit, at the central andregional levels. As indicatedearlier, the project will also strengthen
the capacity o f the MDRE's DPSE (through sub-component A3), a key partner in the project
M&E system. Because a GIS is truly efficient if built around a core system managed by a
national agency, the CBRD will support such a core unit, in collaboration with the other Bank-
and partners-financed projects.




                                                27

                              Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                    MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


The Community-Based Rural Development project (CBRD) is a follow-up to the Rainfed
Natural Resource Management Project (RNRMP), with greater geographical coverage and a
broader scope o f interventions. Whereas the RNFWP intervened in 66 communes and created
295 village community development associations (ADCs, the CBRD will intervene in 141
communes and will target the creation of 700 new ADCs. Whereas, the RNRMP focused solely
on villages, the CBRD will add to this focus a direct assistance to 10 pilot rural communes,
agricultural services, and rural micro-enterprises. The CBRD will also intervene to ease access to
rural roads within the same rural communes selected for capacity building.

The CBRD, which focuses on rainfed areas, complements the other Bank-financed Integrated
Development Project for Irrigated Agriculture inMauritania (PDIAIM), which is concernedwith
irrigated areas. These two rural projects, along with the forthcoming Bank-financed Capacity
Building Project, and other donor-funded operations will support the restructuring of the
Ministry of Rural Development and Environment (MDRE). The project strategy covers linkages
with other projects (e.g., in education, health, and HIV/AIDS) and lessons from projects and
alternative options. The project will specifically support the HIV/AIDS rural component, which
i s managedby the MDREand its decentralizedunits.

The project includes three main components selected to directly contribute to its outcome and
simplify its implementation: Component A: Capacity Building; Component B: Investment
Funds; andComponent C: Project ManagementandMonitoringandEvaluation.
ComponentA. CapacityBuilding-US$11.9M(IDA: US$9.2 M)
This component emphasizes on capacity building of ADCs, the project's focal point, but also
reflects the fact that the long-lasting impact of community investments critically depends on: (i)
the organizational and managerial capacities of village communities to design and implement
effective development plans; and (ii) technical capacity o f the providers of services to these
                                         the
communities. It comprises four sub-components.
        Al. Capacity Buildingof ADCs- US$3.5M(IDA: US$3.1M)
This sub-component targets 700 new ADCs, but also 150old ones that need additional support as
they were createdtoward the end of the preceding project and received only one or two years of
assistance. The new ADCs will be selected the same way the old 295 ADCs were. The list of
communes within whichthe project may intervene is set bythe Government and approved by the
Parliament. The project selects villages to create ADCs inthese communes according to a battery
of criteria used under the RNRMP and describedinthe Implementation Manual. The project will
support the ADCs in: (i)their recognition as a legal entity by the decentralization of
administration under Law No. 098-64 of June 9, 1964, pertaining to associations; (ii)the
participatory diagnosis and priority setting; (iii)the preparation o f a three-year village
community development plans (VCDP); (iv) the implementation and monitoring of the
subsequent village community investmentplans (VCIP); and (v) the monitoring and evaluation
of these investmentsduring the project's life time. Underthe RNRMP, one of the 13 members of
the ADC's council was to be a woman, and in2003,2 women hadbeen appointed as head of 2
out of the existing 295 ADCs. The benchmark study o f these 295 ADCs conducted during



                                                 28

preparation identified six such ADCs in 2004. The CBRD, whose staff includes a Gender and
Social Safeguards specialist, will encourage ADCs to increase women participation in ADCs'
organization and activities. Through its participatory, demand-driven approach, the CBRD
promotes the empowerment and enhances the security of poor communities. Poor village
communities are given opportunities and are ensured the ownership of the alternative choices
considered intheir developmentplans.

The ADCs will be provided with: (i)   consultant services for village reference surveys, diagnostic,
and design of village developmenthnvestment plans; (ii)training in organization and
management, through seminars and inter-community exchange visits for experience sharing; and
(iii)operatingexpenses for follow-up visitstoADCs, includingbyotherpartnerstoincrease
collaboration and avoid duplication of efforts. The assistance to ADCs will be provided by the
project team, public services, and private entities. Following the example of the Indonesian
Kecamatan Development Program, the project will enter into a performance-basedcontract with
a Facilitator (NGO or other private organization) to provide close assistance to ADCs-for    about
4 years from the priority setting to the implementation o f the ADC's investmentplan. There will
be about one Facilitator per region and ADCs will be given a major responsibility to assess the
performance o f the Facilitator. Participation of other partners is expected in surveys/diagnostic
activities and training o f ADCs. The expected results o f these activities are strengthened
organizational and managerial capacities of ADCs to be measured by index indicators, which
have already been tested during the benchmark study. Intermediary outputs are the community
development and investment plans. The project and ADCs will monitor the performance o f
service providers.
        A2: Capacity Building of Rural Municipalities -USU.0 M(IDA: US%0.90M)
This sub-componentwill strengthenthe capacity of 10 selected rural municipalities by designing
communal development plans that integrate village community development plans and, through
funds provided under component B, to implement-with the participation of villages-various
civil works to ease access to roads within the commune. The number of rural communes is
limited in order to ensure: (i) the village-commune interface is tested adequately; and (ii)
                                that
that each commune implements a critical mass o f rural roads works to make a difference. The
project will collaborate, and not duplicate support provided to communes by other partners (e.g.,
civic training of mayors and council members), which is managed by the Department of Local
Collectivities (DLC). Also, the analysis o f the financing mechanisms at the commune level,
especially the intergovernmental transfer system in relation with the communal plan, i s beyond
the scope of the CBRD. This will be better tackled by the forthcoming Bank-supported Capacity
Building Program. The project, however, will assist rural communes and villages to gain access
to such social services as primary healthcare and education, which are financed by sectoral
projects or programmatic operations. The selection of pilot communes will be based, among
others, on the following criteria: (i)the state o f its rural roads; (ii)the involvement o f
development partners inthe commune; and (iii)     the number of ADCs inthe commune to allow
for a meaningful test ofthe integration of development plans.

The selected communes will be supported with: (i) office equipment and supplies; (ii)
                                                      limited
consultant services for their participatory diagnosis with villages, inthe design o f the communal
development plan, the rural road investment plan, and the supervision o f the completion o f this
investment; (iii)training through seminars and inter-commune visits; and (iv) operating expenses
for follow-up visits. This assistance will be provided through public services and facilitators


                                                29

(NGOs and contracted private consultants). As in the case o f ADCs, and under the same
contractual arrangement, a Facilitator will be provided to communes for a close assistance. The
project team and the communes will monitor and evaluate these service providers. A key
expected output will be the strengthened capacity o f rural communes to enter into contracts with
service providers to implement small road infrastructure. Another will be a Rural Road Strategy
on the treatment o f critical points at the communal level.
        A3: Capacity BuildingofAgriculturalServices- US$6.4 M(IDA: US$4.2M)
This sub-component targets the MDRE's central agencies and decentralized (deconcentrated)
units that provide services to farmers and herdersinADCs and to the project (e.g., inM&E and
safeguard issues). The central units include the newly created directions o f crop and livestock
services, the crop and livestock research and development institutions, the environmental and
rural infrastructure department, the statistical and policy unit, and the rural training center at
Boghe, outside Nouakchott. The strengthening o f these units is in line with the restructuring o f
the MDRE, which is supported by the Bank-financed rural operations (IDPIAM and CBRD), the
Capacity Building project and the African Development Bank-supported Livestock project. The
MDRE's restructuring aims at (i)the deconcentration of agricultural services to the regional
delegations and departmental inspections; (ii)    the empowerment o f beneficiaries to assess the
performance o f public services and to hold them accountable; and (iii) emergence o f private
                                                                           the
providers o f agricultural services. Regarding the latter, however, the MDRE realistically
recognizes that the prospects are bright in animal health services (already provided by private
veterinarians and village-level livestock auxiliaries that were trained under the precedingproject)
but not so in the provision of crop research-extension services provided to poor producers o f
rainfed crops subjected to constant weather risks. The goal in this case i s to empower the
producers.

The project will implement performance-contracts with agricultural services that spell out the
expected services to be rendered and the support to be provided by the project. The project
support also aims at strengthening the capacity o f agricultural services and will include some
civil works (rehabilitation o f key infrastructure), vehicledequipment and office supplies, and
incremental operational expenses to provide services to ADCs. The greater share (72 percent) o f
project support to agricultural services goes to the decentralized units. Agricultural services are
expected to provide satisfactory services to ADCs, as they will be assessed by the ADCs
themselves.
        A4. CapacityBuildingof RuralMicro-Enterprises-US$l.l                M(IDA: US$1.0M)
The quality and cost of investment goods and maintenancehepair services provided to ADCs
play a crucial role in the rate of return and the sustainability o f the investments undertaken by
these communities. In turn, these small rural manufacturers/suppliers o f goods and services,
broadly defined as rural micro-enterprises, generate income and employment in the rural area
and contribute to rural growth. The CBRD's intent i s not to create new rural micro-enterprises,
but rather to support the growth o f existing and viable ones-which        already or could directly
provide services to ADCs. These micro-enterprises may reside within the ADC's village or
outside-in   small or medium centers inthe commune or the moughataa, or even the region.

Under this sub-component, the project will support: (i)     studies/surveys related to the business
environment o f rural micro-enterprises and their diagnosis; (ii)    training; (iii) matching
                                                                                   limited
funds to help selected rural micro-enterprises (RME) acquire critical material and equipmentto


                                                 30

strengthen their technical capacities; and (iv) operating expenses for follow-up visits. Training
will be carried out by business development service providers(NGOs, but mostly other
enterprises, likely from urban areas and market centers). Inso doing, the project will strengthen
the necessary urban-rural linkages in enterprise development. The ways inwhich RME will be
selected to participate in the program, the training formula (in location or apprenticeship), and
the small grant mechanism are spelled out inthe ImplementationManual. The project measures
the keyoutput ofthis sub-component interms oftotal numbero fenterprises reached.
ComponentB: InvestmentFunds- US$38.1M(IDA: US$30.3M)
This component is key to the project's success, as it provides the means to implementvillage and
communal development plans, while giving these communities the opportunity to put into
practice their strengthened capacities. The borrower has planned for this component to represent
at least 60 percent o f total project cost. The component comprises two sub-components.
        B1: Village InvestmentFunds-US$32.9M(US$25.3 M)
This sub-component targets poor village communities, providing them with capital input to
implement their village community development plans (VCDP). The VCDP will generally cover
at least 3 years, and the project will strive to provide each newly created ADC with the same
time period to execute its development plan. The investment funds are provided to ADCs against
a contribution whose level would be lower for social and environmental than for economic
investments. The amount o f investment per village (including the beneficiary's contribution
expected to average 30%, and mostly in kind) would be about $40,000-$45,000 for each new
ADCs in order to create a critical mass o f investments. The funds cover the feasibility studies
required for the implementation o f the investment. The ADCs will be trained (under sub-
component Al) in the procurement methods and contracting to build ownership. Funds will de
drawn from Special Account B (SA-B) in tranches, to implement the yearly investment plans,
which may require a couple of tranches depending on the size o f the investment. (The flow o f
funds is described inthe financial management).

Given the demand-driven nature of these plans, investments are not known ex-ante. However,
the project can expect outputs to include: (i)investments for village wells, soil and water
conservation to boost agricultural productivity (dykes and small dams); (ii)diversified
agricultural production (village gardens); (iii)  livestock health activities (vaccination parks) (iv)
targeted activities to protect the natural resources base (dune fixation, vegetal cover
regeneration); and (v) various other on- and off-farm income-generating activities (mills, village
stores, agricultural rental equipment). The project will encourage ADCs to include at least one
activity selected by women. The CBRD will not finance religious establishments. Furthermore, it
will not directly fund social services (healthcare and education), which are within the sphere o f
competence o f communes and are, at any rate, provided by other programs. However, the
CBRD will assist villages and communes to gain access to such services from sectoral programs.
A GEF component is being sought to complement the project in areas o f natural resource
management that concerns more than one village.

The CBRD will continuously monitor the implementation o fvillage investmentsandperiodically
evaluate the revenue stream generated by the income-generating activities. Whereas the C C U
will conduct the routine monitoring, it will contract with third parties to conduct the evaluation
o f the income-generation activities. Such third parties may include the MDRE's statistical and
M&Eunitand independentconsultants.


                                                  31

        B2: RuralCommunalRoadFunds- US$5.3M(IDA: US$5.0 M)
This fund targets the rural communes selected in A2 and provide them with capital input
earmarked for improving access to rural roads within the commune. The rationale behind the
earmarked funds i s that several programs currently provide the social services (healthcare,
education, and water) that rural communes may need. As indicated above, the CBRD will
coordinate with these other sectoral programs to facilitate rural communes' access to these
services. The rural communal road funds does not target the construction o f stretches o f road but
rather only the treatment of what i s called "critical points," which prevent populations to cross a
stream or some other obstacle.       These funds will cover feasibility studies needed for the
investments and studies to contribute to a national rural road strategy.

The key expected output is the number o f small works onrural roads realizedbyrural communes
with the participation and contribution o f village communities. Giventhat communes have not
beenselected, the nature and extent o fthe works neededto alleviate the critical points are not yet
known. However, duringpreparation, the project team identified 15 potential small works that a
rural commune could undertake to make a significant impact onthe access to roads.
Component C: Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation-                     US$6.5 M (IDA:
US$4.1M)
This represents the requiredset of activities for the project's management and accountability as to
the evaluation and monitoring o f outcome, inputs and outputs. The project will carry these
activities with the goal o f avoiding the preceding project's shortcomings. The component
includes two sub-components.
        C1: ProjectManagementand Coordination- US$4.7M(IDA: US$2.4M)
This is assumed by the CCU, located inNouakchott, and its decentralized RCUs, locatedinnine
regional delegations o f the MDRE. (The CBRD covers 10 regions, but one regional delegation
covers two regions.) The CCU i s responsible for coordination between the Government and the
Bank, between the project and other donors, and between the project and the implementing
agencies and institutions. It will implement a communication strategy to disseminate the
project's activities, approaches, and results, through rural radio, national radio, mobile video and
television. The institutional arrangements that concern the CCU are described in Annex 6. The
financial management system o f the project, a key element o f this component, i s detailed in
Annex 7.
The project supports these units with small civil works to repair key office infrastructure,
vehicles and equipment, office supplies, consultant services for studies, training, and operating
expenses (salaries and utilities). The key expected outputs are tied to good performance o f the
financial management system.
        C2: Monitoringand Evaluation- US$1.9 M(IDA: US$1.7M)
The modus operandi o f this M&E is detailed in the M&E Implementation Manual. Under this
sub-component, the project supports consultant services, computer equipment and software
(including digital maps), training o f staff, and operating cost (salaries, repaidmaintenance costs,
travel and perdiem o f enumerators, etc). The expected outputs o f the M&E system are timely
periodic reports, includingon KPIs, which include poverty-related indicators.




                                                  32

                                                               Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                                       MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


                                 Table 5A: ProjectCost by Component/Activityand Financiers


                                                                                International
Components by Financiers                                                       Development                                                  Local
(US$'000)                                                 --------Total%
                                                              Government     Association  (Iw      Beneficiaries                 Foreign    (Excl.  Duties &
                                                            Amount      %   Amount        %     Amount      %      Amount         Exchg     Taxes)   Taxes

A. CAPACITY BUILDING/a
   1. CapacityBuildingof Village Communities-ADCs             310.2      9.0 3,145.2      91.0                      3,455.4  6.0         -   3,241.8  213.5
  2. CapacityBuildingof RuralMunicipalities                     65.4     6.9    888.3     93.1                  --   953.7   1.6    382.2     516.9     54.5
  3. Capacity Buildingof Agricultural Services
     a. DRFVCapacityBuilding                                    42.4    31.8     91.1     68.2                        133.6  0.2     62.0      61.4     10.1
     b. CNRADACapacityBuilding                                  60.5    25.5     176.8    74.5                  --   237.4   0.4    128.6      80.5     28.2
     c. CNREVCapacityBuilding                                   42.4    31.8     91.1     88.2                  -     133.8  0.2     82.0       81.4    10.1
     d. DE (Livestock)CapacityBuilding                          42.4    31.8     91.1     68.2                  -     133.6  0.2     82.0       81.4    10.1
     e. DA (Agriculture) CapacityBuilding                       42.4    33.6     83.7     66.4                  -     126.2  0.2     54.6       81.4    10.1
     e. DEN(Environment) CapacityBuilding                       51.1    17.0    248.6     83.0                  -     299.7  0.5    171.7      112.3    15.7
     f. DPSE Capacity Building                                  84.2    14.9    367.9     85.1                  -     432.1  0.7    145.4      254.8    31.9
     g. CFPRBCapacityBuilding                                   50.2    19.3    210.4     80.7                  -     260.6  0.4    176.4       71.3    13.0
     h. Regional Delegations CapacityBuilding                1,834.8    39.2  2.841.7     60.8          -       -   4,676.5  8.1   1,143.2   3,164.6   368.6
  SubtotalCapacity Building of Agricultural Services         2,230.6    34.7 4,202.5      65.3                  -   6.433.1 11.1  2,005.9    3,929.1   498.1
  4, CapacityBuildingof RuralMicro-Enterprises                 107.0     9.8     957.0    87.3      32.5      3.0   1,096.5  1.9     102.1     958.7    35.7
SubtotalCAPACITY BUILDING                                    2,713.2    22.7  9,193.0     77.0      32.5      0.3  11,938.6 20.6  2,490.3    8,646.6   801.8
B. INVESTMENTFUNDS
   1. VillageInvestmentFunds                                                 25,305.0     76.9    7,591.5    23.1  32,896.4 56.8         -  32,896.4
   2. RuralCommunalRoadFunds                              -----               5,003.2     95.2      250.2     4.8   5,253.4  9.1             5,253.4       -
                                                                                                                                          ~



Subtotal INVESTMENTFUNDS                                                     30,308.2     79.4    7,841.6    20.6  38,149.8 85.8         -  38,149.8
C. PROJECTMGT/ MONITORING& EVALUATIONIb
   1, ProjectManagementand Coordination                      2.231.5    47.8  2.439.5     52.2                  -   4,670.9  8.1     669.5   3,457.9   543.6
   2. ProjectMonitoring& Evaluation                       --   132.0     7.2  1,694.0     92.8          -        -  1.825.9  3.2   1,260.8     506.2    56.9
Subtotal PROJECT MGT / MONITORING&EVALUATION              ---2,363.5    36.4  4,133.4     63.6                      6,496.92.4
                                                                                                                             11.2  1,930.2   3,964.1   602.5
                                                                                                                 ~



 D. ProjectPreparationFunds(PPF)Refinancing                                   1,365.5     100.0         -           1,365.5        1,365.5         -
                                                                                                                 ~                                          ~



Total PROJECTCOSTS                                           5,076.7     8.8 45,000.0     77.7    7,874.1    13.6  57,950.8 100.0  5.786.0  50,760.5 1.404.3


!a CapacityBuilding:The Governmentiscontributing60% of the recurrentcosts
U, ProjectManagement/ Monitoring& Evaluation:The Govemmentis contributing60% of the recurrentcosts.



                                                      Table 5B: ProjectCost Summary
                                                                                         Indicative                     Bank-          Yo of
          Component                                                Sector                costs              Yo of                g     Bank-
                                                                                         (USSM)             Total                      financing

          A.          Capacity Building                                                   11.9              20.6%       9.2            77.0%

          B           InvestmentFunds                                                    38.1               65.8%       30.3           79.4%

          C           Project MgtI M&E                                                   6.5                11.2%       4.1            63.6%

          D.          PPFRefinancing                                                      1.4               2.4%        1.4             100%


          TotalProject Costs                                                             57.9               100%        45.0           77.7%




                                                                               33

                             Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                     MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment
The project will be implemented by the existing administrative and political institutions and
according to the regular attributions o f the latter. Only oversight committees will be created at
different levels o f the administration. The implementationarrangements described indetail inthe
Implementation Manual for the different levels o f responsibility are summarized below:
The SteeringCommittee (Comite`de Pilotage, CP): Provides overall guidance to the project. It is
chaired by the Ministry o f Economic Affairs and Development (MAED) and is consisted o f key
ministries involved in project activities (Rural Development, Interior, Health, Education,
Equipment, Water, etc.), representatives from elected local governments (communes), and civil
society (NGOs). The CP will be established prior to project effectiveness and its members will
be established by ArrZte`. The CP will meet twice a year, with one o f the meeting expanded to
include other development partners. It will be responsible for: (i)      reviewing the annual work
plans, budgets, and project's results prepared by the CCU; (ii)        assessing the progress made
towards achieving project's objectives; (iii) facilitating the project's implementation through the
coordination among CP's members. The minutes o f CP's meetings will be shared with IDA.
Project Central Coordination Unit (CCU): The implementation o f the project will be the
responsibility o f the CCU, under the tutelage o f the Minister o f Rural Development and
Environment (MDRE). The CCU will brief the MDRE on a regular basis, including through
quarterly reports and summary notes and before each meeting o f the Steering Committee. The
CCU's functions include: (i)preparation o f annual work programs and budgets for the
implementation o f project's components for the Steering Committee's reviewand for IDA'S;(ii)
planning and implementation o f activities according to work programs and budgets; (iii)
maintenance o f project's financial integrity through the implementation o f the financial
management system recommended by IDA; (iv) implementation o f the M&E system, including
the impact analysis; (v) facilitation with sectoral operations to helpvillage communities andrural
communes gain access to basic social services; and (vi) collaboration with other development
partners and other government-financed development projects to avoid duplication and ensure
complementarity with one another. In particular, the CCU will pay attention to the
implementation o f the direct transfer o f funds directly to ADCs, starting in year two o f the
project.

The CCU will consist o f : (i)a Core Management (including a Coordinator, Director of
Administration and Finance, and Internal Auditor and a Procurement Specialist); (ii)        experts
covering M&E and such key project's aspects as community participatiodtraining, rural
infiastructure,  agricultural services contracting, natural resources/environmental safeguard
issues, and gender and social safeguard issues; and (iii)assistants dealing with project
communication, logistics, computer systems, and the time-consuming process o f registering
ADCs, whose legal status (Law No. 098-64) is a prerequisite for the transfer o f funds. All project
staff will be under a renewable two-year contract, with terms o f reference, qualifications,
experience, and expected outputs satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower and the
Association will determine the renewal or termination of contracts based on performance
evaluations, particularly when the expected outputs have been achieved. Ifnecessary, the number
of staff will be adjusted duringimplementation. Terms and conditions o f the contracts are spelled
out inthe ImplementationManual.



                                                 34

Local Public Authorities and Oversight: Central and local technical services of the State and
local authorities o f the communes are expected to play an important role in the CBRD. The
function of local authorities are as follows: (i)   participation in the validation process of the
Village Communities Development Plans (VCDPs), which must be aligned with the Regional
Poverty Reduction Programs (PRLP) and the communal development agenda of the communes
and the region; (ii)  verification of the conformity of different investments with rules and legal
texts; (iii)supervision of the implementation o f subprojects; and (iv) assistance to communities
in eventual conflict resolution. The VCDP will be vetted by an Approval Committee at the
Moughataa level, coordinated by the Hakem of the concerned Moughataa. The Approval
Committee will comprise representativeso f the sectoral ministries, local governments, and local
NGOs.
Decentralized Regional Coordination Unit-RCU:               The project management will be
decentralized at the regional level (wilaya). Inthe regions of project's intervention, there will be
a project Regional Coordination Unit (RCU) under the supervision of the MDRE's De'le'gation
Re'gionale du De'veloppementRrural inthat region. Oversight of the regional program i s provided
by the Comite' Rbgional de De'veloppement(CRD) chaired by the Wali (Governor) o f the region.
The CRD is composed of Government representatives (the Hakems), public services,
representative o f local government (communes) and civil society (NGO, professional
associations). The RCU is in charge of the implementation of the project's activities on the
ground. Inparticular, it ensures that the M&E systemis carried out according to the plan andthat
the ADCs receive all the necessary assistance in the direct management of funds. The RCU's
technical staff include the Regional Coordinator, an accountant and a data entry operator. It
works with the CMAT (Cadre mobile d'assistance technique) recruited by the project to
strengthenthe Regional Delegation. The CMAT are expected to be retained by these delegations
at the end of the project. As with the CCU, the core staff of the RCU will be under a
performance-contract to bejointly assessedby the Borrower and IDA.
Village Community Associations (ADCs) (700 new ones and 150 old ones) and the 10 selected
rural communes are ultimately the principal implementing units o f the CBRD. They will be in
charge of the design of their development and investmentplans through a participatory approach.
Inthe case of ADCs, this approach will involve the whole village, and inthe case of the rural
communes, it will involve all villages concerned about overcoming rural roads' critical points.
ADCs andrural communes will have the responsibility for contracting withsuppliers and service
providers, for procuring the goods and services needed to implement their investment plans,
assuring the operation and maintenance o f these investments. They will be given the
responsibility of assessing the performance of agricultural services, as well as the facilitator.
Furthermore, as describedinAnnex 7, the project will transfer funds directly to the ADCs       .The
latter will be given the responsibility to manage their bank accounts, to deposit their contribution,
and receive project's funds to carry out sub-projects. The project provides matching grants to
ADCs according to three basic eriteria: (i)  the ADC i s a socially cohesive group with which the
project can work; (ii)the ADC has in place a VCDP; and (iii)          sub-projects are technically,
financially, and environmentally sound with indications that the ADC will take responsibility for
its realization, operation and maintenance. The ADCs are required to follow a transparent
process in the procurement of goods and services and are subject to technical supervision and
monitoring of the sub-projects. ADCs would be suspended if they violate the partnership trust
signed with the project, includingmisuse and misappropriation of funds.



                                                 35

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                    MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


A. SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT
ImplementingEntity
As a follow-up to the preceding project, RNRMP, the CBRD will benefit from this project's
experience in managing IDA funds. The main recommendations below are relative to the
financial staff, to the information system organization, and to the audits should be implemented
before the effectiveness of the project.
Staffing
The CBRD will recruit a Director of Administration and Finance with an academic and
professional qualification acceptable to the Bank. The Director will report to the Coordinator.
The Director should be capable of directing and guiding the financial management operations of
the Project. In addition, an Internal Auditor, who will be professionally qualified and
experienced in accounting and auditing, will be recruited by CBRD to monitor the activities of
the Agency.     Other appropriately qualified and experienced accounting support staff will be
recruited by CBRD.
Riskanalysis
The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) revealed that the systems for
planning, budgeting, monitoring and controlling public resources in Mauritania are improving
but they still do not provide sufficient reasonable assurance that funds are usedfor the intended
purpose. The risk of waste, diversion and misuse of funds was assessed as partially high. The
overall project risk from a financial management perspective i s therefore considered partially
high. However, various measures to mitigate these risks have been agreed upon. The financial
management arrangements for CBRD are designedto ensure that funds are usedfor the purpose
intended, timely information is produced for project management and government oversight,
and to facilitate the Agency's compliance with IDA fiduciary requirements. Becausethe CFAA
recommendationson financial accountability reforms have not been implementedyet, the overall
Country Risk is assessed as partially high.
ControlRisks
The main control risks, ratings and mitigating measures are tabulated below. The project risk
from a financial management perspective is considered moderate provided the risk mitigating
measures below are properly addressed.




                                               36

Control Risk                                       Risk Mitigating Measures                    RiskRating
                                                                                               with
                                                                                               Mitigation
ImplementingEntity                                 A new computerizedFinancial                 M
As a follow up o fthe former RNRMP, the CBRD       Management System will be installed
will maintain the previous CCU and capitalize on   including an integratedaccountingand
its capacity in implementing Bank projectsbut will financial software and implementation
reinforce its managementwith anew Financial        manual.
Management system(Implementation manualand
accounting & financial software).

Funds Flow                                         a) The MOF will establisha clear            M
Delays intransfer o f funds from Ministryof             standard for procedureand servicethat
Finance(MOF) (TrBsor Public) to CBRD with               will meet the FMrequirements,and
respectto Counterpart Funds.                            will monitor compliancewith the
                                                        proceduresand servicestandards.
                                                   b) Follow up by the Director of
                                                        Administration and Finance.

Staffing                                           a) A professionally qualified Director of   M
a) Shortage ofprofessionally high-qualified        Administration and Financewill be
accountants inthe Country.                         recruited, with an academic and
                                                   professionalbackgroundacceptableto
                                                   IDA,.as head ofthe Finance&
                                                   Administration Department
b) No basic computer knowledgerequired for the     b) Training and capacitybuilding activities
use ofthe FMS being designed.                      to enable the implementation accordingto
                                                   IDA procedureswill be provided during
                                                   preparationand on a continuousbasis.

Accounting Policiesand                             a) Control procedureswill be documented     M
Procedures                                         inthe Financial& Administrative
Adequacy of controls over the preparationand       ProceduresManual(FAPM).
approval oftransactions,payments, basis of         b) FAPM will be regularly updatedby the
accounting, accounting standards, cash and bank    Internal Auditor.
transactions, project assets, etc.                 c) Accurate basis of accountingwill be
                                                   used.
                                                   f, FixedAssets Registerwill be established.
                                                   e) Contract Registerwill be maintained.




                                                     37

 ControlRisk                                               RiskMitigating Measures                             RiskRating
                                                                                                               after
                                                                                                               Mitigation
 InternalAudit                                             a) A professionally qualified and                   M
                                                           experiencedinternalauditor will be
 a) Shortage of professionallyqualifiedinternal            appointed.
 auditors inthe Country.                                   b) RegularBank supervisionmissions,
                                                           including SOEreviewsandtimely follow-
                                                           up on management letter issues.
                                                           c) InternalAuditor will be givenrelevant
                                                           training.
  External Audit                                           a) Annual external audit will be undertaken         M
       Projectauditswill be in arrears.                    basedon the TORs acceptableto the Bank.
                                                           b) Relevantlyqualifiedexternalauditors
                                                           will be appointedby CBRD.
                                                           c) Annual audit reportsonthe financial
                                                           statements will be submittedto the Bank
                                                           within six (6) monthsafter the endofthe
                                                           year.
 Reporting andMonitoring                                   a) Annual and quarterly financialstatements          M
                                                           andFMRswill be produced.
  a) Managementreport will notbe prepared                  b) Financialstatements will be producedin
       timely.                                             a timely manner for planning, controland
  b) Bank ReconciliationStatementswill not be              decision-makingpurposes.
       preparedtimely.                                     c) A FinancialManagementConsultant will
  c)   Budgetmonitoring: Comparisonof actual               be retainedto adviseandassist onthe
       with budgetwill notbe carried out ona               selectionand installationofthe project's
       regular basis.                                      FMS.' (See Appendix 2 for DraftTORs)
                                                           d) The new system will havethe capability
                                                           of linkingphysicaland financial data.
                                                           e) Quarterly reportingarrangements,
                                                           including contentsofreports, will be
                                                           documentedinthe FAPM.
                                                           6Bankreconciliationstatements will be
                                                           preparedona monthly basis.
                                                           g) Reportscomparingbudgetwith actual
                                                           expenditures will be preparedon a monthly
                                                           basis and reviewedregularly.
                                                           b) A uniformcomputerizedAccounting                    M
                                                           Systemwill bedevelopedby a Financial
  PreviousProject's information system has not             ManagementConsultant for the new
  given satisfactory resultsinterms oftimeliness           project.
  and accuracy.                                            b) The new system will be installedat

I                                                          CBRDandwill be usedfor maintaining
                                                           accountingrecordsand other project related
                                                           information.
                                                           c) Appropriate trainingwill be givento the
                                                           staff.
H-High             S - Substantial              M-IV derate                    N/L-Negligibleor Low



' The FMconsultant will be retainedon a short-term basis to: (a) advise on the selection, installationand customization ofthe
transitional computerizedFMS; (b) prepare the FinancialAdministrative ProceduresManual; and (c) train staff.



                                                              38

Strength and Weaknesses
Strength: The Government o f Mauritania is dedicated to the improvement o f the living
conditions o f rural communities in terms o f sustainable income, increase and access to basic
social services.     To foster this, the CBRD has been created as a follow up o f the previous
RNRMP so that it can benefit from its legacy interms o f implementing capacity o f IDA projects.
Weaknesses: Significant weaknesses and how they will be addressed are tabulated below.


 SignificantWeaknesses                       Resolution
 Professionally     qualified   Director of Appoint a professionally qualified and experiencedDirector o f
 Administration and Finance and an Internal Administration and Financeand an InternalAuditor on clearly
 Auditor are yet to be appointed             definedTORs that are acceptable to IDA.
 New Financial ManagementSystems are yet     Retain a F Mconsultantto: (i)install a computerizedFMS in
 to be developed                             CBRD and train staff; and (ii)designthe F M arrangements and
                                             preparea detailed Financial Administrative ProceduresManual
                                             ?orCBRD;
 External Auditors have not beenappointed    Relevantly qualified, experiencedand independentexternal
                                             auditorswill be appointedby CBRD basedon the TORs
                                             acceDtableto IDA.


InformationSystems
A computerized FM System will be designed for use. Inthat regard, a Financial Management
Consultant who will design and install a computerized FMS in CBRD, will be appointed. H e
will also train financial staff on the use o f the system. See Appendix 2 for Draft TORs for the
FMC. A Financial and Administrative Procedures Manual (FAPM) will be developed by the
FMC.
FinancialReporting and Monitoring
Monthly, quarterly and annual reports will be prepared by the Finance Department and submitted
to the CBRD management and IDA for the purpose o f monitoring project implementation. The
monthly reports consist o f : (i)Bank Reconciliation Statement; (ii)
                                   a                                         Statement o f Cash position;
(iii)Statement o f expenditures; and (iv) Statement o f Sources and Uses o f funds. The quarterly
reports consist of: (i)Financial Reports; (ii)        Physical Progress Reports; (iii)Procurement
Reports; (iv) SOE withdrawal schedules and (v) Special Account statementheconciliation. The
annual reports consist of: (i)    a Statement o f Sources and Uses o f funds (by Credit Categoryhy
Activity showing IDA and Counterpart Funds separately); (ii)          a Statement o f Cash Position for
Project Funds from all sources; (iii)Statements reconciling the balances on the various bank
accounts (including IDA Special Account) to the bank balances shown on the Consolidated
Statement o f Sources and Uses o f funds; (iv) SOE Withdrawal Schedule listing individual
withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number,
date and amount; and (v) Notes to the Financial Statements.
A financial management system, including records and accounts, will be maintained by CBRD.
Financial Statements will be prepared in a format acceptable to IDA, and will be adequate to
reflect inaccordance with sound accountingpractices the operations, resources, and expenditures
inrespect ofthe project.




                                                   39

AccountingPoliciesand Procedures
Project accounts will be maintained on an accurate basis, augmented with appropriate records
and procedures to track commitments and to safeguard assets. Accounting records will be
maintained in dual currencies (i.e. Ouguiyas and SDR or USD). The Chart of Accounts will
facilitate the preparation o f relevant monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements,
including information on the following:

    0    Total project expenditures

    0    Total financial contribution from each financier

    0    Total expenditureon each project component/activity, and

    0    Analysis o f that total expenditure into civil works, various categories o f goods, training,
    consultants and other procurement and disbursement categories

Annual financial statements will be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards (IASs). All accounting and control procedures will be documented in the FAPM, a
livingdocument that will be regularly updated by the FMS.

B.AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS
The IDA Agreement will require the submission o f Audited Project Financial Statements for
CBRD to IDA within six (6) months after year-end. Relevantly qualified external auditors will
be appointed by CBRD on TORSacceptable to IDA. A single opinion on the Audited Project
Financial Statements in compliance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs), will be
requiredincluding the accuracy and the nature o f expenditures made under the SOE procedures
and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for credit disbursements.

Inaddition to the audit reports, the external auditors will be expected to prepare a Management
Letter giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements in
accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants in the IDA
Agreement.
C.DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS
The overall project funding will consist o f IDA Credit and Counterpart Funds. The following
accounts will be maintained by CBRD:

    (i)     Two (2) Special Accounts in U S Dollars opened in a commercial bank acceptable to
            IDA that will be managed by CBRD and used to make payments to contractors,
            suppliers inthe respective contract currencies

    (ii)    A Project Account inOuguiyas with a commercial bank to which Counterpart Funds
            will be deposited.

Interest income received on the Special accounts will be deposited to the respective project
account or any other account o fborrower.




                                                  40

                            Table 7: Allocationof IDA Credit Proceeds

    ExpenditureCategory                                      Amount in    FinancingPercentage
                                                             US%million
    1. Civil Works                                               0.1     100% of foreign
                                                                         expenditures and 85% of
                                                                         local expenditures
    2. Goods                                                     2.3     100% of foreign
                                                                         expendituresand 85% of
                                                                         localexpenditures
    3. ConsultantsServices(Consultant Services, Audits)          3.3     100% o f foreign
                                                                         expenditure, 90% of
                                                                         local expendituresfor
                                                                         indiv.local cons., and
                                                                         85% of local
                                                                         expendituresfor
                                                                         consulting firms
    4. Training, Workshops                                       3.9               100%
    5. Grants
        5.a Village InvestmentFunds(part B1)- Sp. Acct B        25.3     100% of amounts
                                                                         disbursed
        5.b Rural Communal Road Fund(part B2) -                  5.0     100%of amounts
        Sp. Acct B                                                       disbursed
        5.c Grants for Micro-Enterprises(part A4) -              0.2     100% of amounts
        Sp. Acct A                                                       disbursed
    6. OperatingCosts                                            2.4              40% /a
    7. RefinancingPPF                                            1.3     Amount disbursed
                                                                         pursuantto Section
                                                                         2.02(c) o fthis
                                                                         Agreement
    8. Unallocated /b                                            1.2

    Total Project Costs                                         45.0




                                 Mechanismsof the Flow of Funds
SpecialAccountA
Special Account A supports Component A: Capacity Building, and Component C: Project
Management and Monitoring and Evaluation.              The Central Coordination Unit (CCU) in
Nouakchott will be responsible for initiating contracting with suppliers, contractors and service
providers, with the participation of direct beneficiaries (village development communities, rural
municipalities, and micro-enterprises) when required. The CCU will be responsible for the
financial  management and payments of the goods and services procured using proceeds from
SA-A.
SpecialAccountB
Special Account B supports Village Investments (Sub-component B1) and Communal
Investmentsfor Rural Roads (Sub-component B2).




                                                   41

VillageInvestments
In year one of the project, the ADCs will be delegated the responsibility for contracting with
suppliers, contractors and service providers, but the payments for the goods and services
procured will be handled by the CCU in Nouakchott from SA-B. The project will use this
approach in year one to prepare and strengthen the capacities o f the ADCs and the project team
for direct management o f funds by ADCs, whichwill start inyear two.

In year two, the ADCs will be entrusted to do procurement and contracting with suppliers,
contractors and service providers for sub-projects, as well as make payments from funds
transferred to them. They will account for these funds drawn from SA-B and deposited directly
into their bank accounts opened in local banks. Under Mauritanian law, the ADC can receive
such funds. The ADC's bank account can receive both the ADC's own contribution and other
deposit, as well as IDA'Sdeposit from SA-B. Transfers to ADCs will be made on the basis o f a
Financing Agreement signed between each ADC and the CBRD, inaccordance with the Bank's
CDD guidelines o f May 7, 2002. The Financing Agreement will include a description o f sub-
projects, their cost, and payment modalities, and provide the bank account of the ADC.
Disbursement to ADC will be made in a lump sum, inor several tranches depending on the size
of the sub-projects. The Financing agreements will be approved by the R C U and transmitted to
the CCU. All supporting documents for the sub-projects will be retained by the ADC but be
made available for reviewby the external auditors andBank supervision missions.

The project will use this approach throughout the project area and for the remaining life o f the
project, unless an alternative mechanism, submitted and acceptable to IDA, i s requested by the
Borrower, based on assessment undertaken prior to, or at the mid-term review. The project will
ensure that ADCs have the necessary capacities, notably with the assistance o f facilitators and
the RCU's accountant, to handle procurement and funds before they are entrusted with such
responsibilities.

CommunalInvestment
The project will use the same approach with the project-supportedrural communes. Inyear one
of the project, rural communes will be delegated the responsibility for contracting with suppliers,
contractors and service providers, butthe payments (drawn from SA B for the goods and services
procured will be handled by the CCU inNouakchott. The project will use year one to identify a
mechanism to transfer funds to communes, and prepare the communes and the project team for
such a transfer. Inyear two, the project i s expected to transfer funds directly to communes unless
such a transfer i s deemed unfeasible. The project will ensure that the transfer mechanism chosen
complies with Mauritanian law and i s acceptable to IDA. (Not only communes cannot open bank
accounts under current Mauritanian law, but also IDA has ruled out transferring funds to
communes' Treasury accounts since these funds would likely not be available to communes in a
timely basis.) The CCU will continue to handle payments throughout the life o f the project ifno
such feasible transfer mechanism can be identified. The flow o f funds diagram reflects this
possibility. As with ADCs, the project will ensure that rural communes have the capacity to
handle procurement and funds before they are entrusted with these responsibilities.




                                                 42

  Summary of FundsFlow Diagram



             MAURITANIACBRD: FLOW OFFUNDS (FromYear Two)



I   Financiers    I


 Account




 Manavers




 Levend:

            :Flow offunds (account management)

            : Support without accountmanagement

            :CCUmakes Payments ofservicescontractedby communes (municipalities)




                                               43

The deposits to the Special Accounts will be made to CBRD when the conditions for credit
effectiveness are met. All bank accounts will be reconciled with bank statements by the Finance
Department and on a monthly basis. Detailed banking arrangements, including control
procedures over all bank transactions (e.g. check signatories, transfers, etc.) will be documented
inthe FAPM.

Method of Disbursement
By effectiveness, the Project will not be ready for report-based disbursements. Thus, at the initial
stage, the transaction-based disbursement procedures (as described in the World Bank
Disbursement Handbook) will be followed, i.e. direct payments, reimbursements, special
commitments and replenishments o fthe Special Accounts.

When project implementation begins, the project will submit to IDA quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for its review. Where the reports are adequate and produced on a
timely basis, and the borrower requests conversion to report-based disbursements, a financial
assessment o f CBRD will be undertaken by the Financial Management Specialist (IDA) at the
request o f the Task Team Leader (TTL) to determine if the project i s eligible for FMR-based
disbursements.The adoption of report-based disbursements by the project will enable it to move
from voucher-by-voucher (transaction-based) disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements
to the Project's Special Accounts, based on FMRs. Detailed disbursement procedures will be
documented inthe FAPM.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full documentation, except for items
claimed under the Statement o f Expenditures(SOE) procedure. SOEs will be used for payments
claimed under contracts for: (a) works in an amount inferior to US$250,000, (b) goods in an
amount inferior to US$250,000; (c) consulting firms in an amount inferior to US$lOO,OOO; (d)
individualconsultants inan amount inferior to US$50,000. SOEs will likewise be utilized for the
payments o f all small equipment, office supplies and training. Documentation supporting all
expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retainedby the CCU and the RCUs and will be made
available for review when requested by IDA periodic supervision missions and project external
auditors. All disbursements are subject to the conditions o f the Development Credit Agreement
andthe procedures defined inthe DisbursementLetter.
Special accounts:
To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume o f withdrawal applications, two
Special Accounts inUS dollars would be opened by CBRD in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocations would be US$1.5 million for Special
Account A and US$3.0 million for Special Account B. The respective allocations will cover
about four months of eligible expenditures. CBRD will be responsible for submitting monthly
replenishment applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the
extent possible, all o f IDA'Sshare o f expenditures should be paid through the special accounts.
The Special Accounts will be replenished through the submission o f Withdrawal Applications on
a monthly basis, which will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as required
untilthe borrower may choose to convert to report-based disbursement. The borrower may also
choose to pre-finance project expenditure and seek reimbursementfiom IDA.




                                                44

Upon project effectiveness, IDA will deposit the amount o f US$750,000 into Special Account A
and US$1.5 million into Special Account B representing fifty percent o f the authorized
allocations. The remaining balance will be made available when the aggregate amount o f
withdrawals from the credit account plus the total amount o f all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association shall be equal or exceed the equivalent o f US$5.0
million for Special Account A and US$10 million for Special Account Byrespectively. The
Special Accounts will be used for all payments inferior to twenty percent o f the authorized
allocation and replenishment applications will be submitted monthly. Further deposits by IDA
into the Special Accounts will be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate
documents.
Counterpartfunds andtaxes
The Government o f Mauritania, the Borrower, will finance counterpart funds including taxes due
for other expenditures.
D.      NEXTSTEPS
Conditionsfor CreditEffectiveness
The following are negotiated as conditions o feffectiveness. The Borrower has:

        (a)    opened the Project Account and deposited the initial deposit;

        (b)    appointedthe auditors under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA;

        (c)    furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that CCU and CP have been
               established byArrgte';

        (d)    furnished to the Association evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that:

               (i)     (A) an administrative and financial director; (B) an internal auditor; (C) a
                       procurement specialist; and (D) an information technology specialist, have
                       beenrecruited for CCU inaccordance with the provisions o f Section I1o f
                       Schedule 3 to this Agreement;

               (ii)    a computerized financial management system has been established in
                       CCU and appropriate training has been provided to the financial
                       management staff; and

               (iii)   a monitoring and evaluation system has been established in CCU,
                       satisfactory to the Association, to monitor and evaluate the outcome
                       indicators; and

        (e)    adopted the complete PEP, including, inter alia, the ESMF, PMP and RPF, and
               furnished said PEP to the Association.

FinancialCovenants
A financial management system, including records and accounts, will be maintained by CBRD.
Financial Statements will be prepared in a format acceptable to IDA, and will be adequate to
reflect inaccordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources, and expenditures
inrespect ofthe project.




                                               45

SupervisionPlan
Supervisionactivities will include: (i) of quarterly FMRs; (ii) of annual audited
                                        review                        review
financial statementsandmanagementletter as well as timely follow up of issues arising; and (iii)
participation in project supervision missions as appropriate. The Bank Financial Management
Specialistincharge will play a key role inmonitoringthe timely implementationofthe financial
managementarrangements.
Conclusions
The overall conclusion of the financial managementassessments is that, providedthe following
conditions are met by CBRD prior to credit effectiveness, the Bank's financial management
requirements will be satisfied: qualified Director of Administration and Finance and Internal
Auditor appointed; computerized FM System installed; FAPM developed; Counterpart Funds
and Special Accounts opened and initial deposit of Counterpart Funds made; and qualified
externalauditors appointed.

By Effectiveness, the project will not be readyfor report-baseddisbursements.Thus, at the initial
stage, transaction-baseddisbursementprocedures, as describedinthe WorldBank Disbursement
Handbook, will be followed Le. direct payment, reimbursement, and special commitments.
However, when project implementationbegins, andthe borrower requests conversionto report-
baseddisbursements, a review will be undertakenby the Task Team to determine ifthe project
i s eligible.




                                               46

                                      Annex 8: Procurement
                   MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


                              Background-ProcurementReform
The current Mauritania Procurement Code was adopted in 2002 based on the recommendations
of the Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) carried out in February 1999 and a
World Bank mission conductedin2002. A new procurement reform, to be supported by an IDF,
i s expected by year end, intime for the PRSC.

Use of BankGuidelines
Procurement o f civil works and goods will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 edition - revised January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and
Standard Bid Evaluation Standard bidding documents for works and goods under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used. The Government will prepare Standard Bidding
Documents for procurement ofworks and goods underNational Competitive Bidding (NCB) and
these documents annexedto the Implementation Manualwill be mandatory. Bank's StandardBid
Evaluation forms would be usedfor NCB contractswith necessarymodifications.
Selection of Consultants will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 edition - revised
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). Bank's Standard Request for Proposals and
evaluation forms will be usedwhere applicable.

Procurement o f small works, goods and services for community-based sub-projects financed by
matching grants will be carried out in accordance with paragraph 3.15 o f the Guidelines
(Community Participation in Procurement), the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement
and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998), and the Project
ImplementationManual(PIM). These would be describedina specific chapter o fthe PIM.
ProcurementImplementationArrangements
ComponentA andC
Procurement under of goods and services under Component A and C will be executed by the
project central coordination unit (CCU). The CCU will be staffed with a Procurement Specialist
who will be responsible for preparing bidding documents, requests for proposals, initiating
contracting with suppliers, contractors and service providers, with the participation of direct
beneficiaries whenrequired
ComponentB
Under Sub-component B1 and B2, Village Communities and rural municipalities will be
delegatedthe responsibility for contracting with suppliers contractors, and service providers. Due
to their lack of procurement experience, each ADC and rural municipality will be supported by
the decentralized regional coordination unit and by facilitators (to be recruited on a competitive
basis) assigned to them. The facilitator's procurement responsibilities include assisting ADCs
and rural communes in (a) programming acquisitions; (b) launching procurement processes; (c)
preparing and managing contracts; and (d) insure capacity building at the community level.



                                               47

ProcurementCapacity
The participatory procurement capacity assessmentwas carriedout duringproject appraisal. The
outcome o f the capacity assessment o f the Central Coordination Unit (CCU) i s that the
procurement team which worked on the previous agricultural project didnot perform as expected
during the execution o f the project, and their experience were not in line with the requirements
for the positions they were holding. In addition, the two procurement positions are not justified
since procurement and acquisitions represent the same work, and there is no need to separate
recurrent acquisitions from procurement. The terms of reference o f these agents were not
adequate to their responsibilities.

The procurement assessment capacity o f the CCU was found average since several actions are
being undertaken by the project to rectify the situation. Based on the findings o f the assessment,
an action plan was developed including (a) recruitment o f a procurement specialist; (b)
finalization o f the establishment o f the procurement unit; (c) preparation o f a detailed
procurement plan for the first year; (d) recruitment o f facilitators to support ADCs and rural
municipalities in assisting procurement under Component B; (e)                  preparation o f an
implementation manual including a detail section on procurement; and (d) use o f Bank published
standard procurement documents. The action planwill be updated at time o fproject launch.

At the community level, the regional coordination unit and facilitators will support ADCs. The
procurement assessment o f the facilitators to be recruited will be executed after such facilitators
have been selected and recruited.

The project will support rural communes to builttheir procurement capacity and will assist them
to implement the procurement mechanism provided to rural communes under current
Mauritanian law.

The project will ensure that the ADCs and rural communes have acquired the necessary
capacities to handle procurement goods and services before they are entrusted with such
responsibilities.

ProcurementPlan
A draft procurement plan will be prepared and will be finalized before Effectiveness for all
procurement to be carried out at the national level for the first year activities. The exact mix o f
procurement will be determined on an annual basis during the annual joint reviews between the
IDA and the Borrower where.a draft procurement plan for the following financial year will be
presented and agreed upon. The detailed procurement plans for subsequent years will be
developed and submitted to IDA for review and approval. The plan will include relevant
information on goods, works and consulting services under the project as well as the timing o f
each milestone in the procurement process. These plans will be reviewed by IDA supervision
missions and by the external technical audits ifneeded. The procurement planwill be updated on
annual basis inconjunction with preparation o f the sectoral action plan. All procurement will be
carried out in accordance with the formally agreed procurement plan (original and formally up-
dated). In the light o f the difficulties in planning the number o f contracts and packages and
coming up with precise figures for the value o f each contract, no aggregate amount for any
procurement method o f procurement plan i s required in the project appraisal document or in
credit agreement.




                                                48

ProcurementMethods
All invitations for bid shall include a detailed description o fthe works or goods, including basic
specifications, the required completion date and a basic form o f agreement acceptable to IDA,
and relevant drawings where applicable. Awards will be made to the contractors or suppliers
who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have
the experience andresources to complete the contract successfully.
CivilWorks (US$O.l million)
There will not be any major civil works contract under the project. Small rehabilitation of
facilities for line ministries estimated at less than US$50,000 equivalent will be procured under
lump-sum,fixed-price contracts awarded onthe basis o fquotations obtained from three qualified
domestic contractors invitedinwriting to bid. The invitation shall, among other things, include a
detailed description o f the works, including basic specifications, relevant drawings and bill o f
quantities where applicable, the required completion date and a basic form o f agreement
acceptable to the Bank. A sufficient bid submission period will be allowed and bids will be
opened in public. The award will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder who has
appropriate experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. For small works that
may be included in community-based sub-projects, given the sub-projects' size, amount and
demand-driven nature, these contracts would be governed when applicable by the Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based Investments (February 1998)
detailed inthe Project Operations Manual.
Goods (US$2.3 million)
The total cost of goods is estimated at US$2.3 million equivalent for the project, not including
contracts for goods under the community sub-projects. The items would include: office
equipment,     furniture  and materials,     audio-visual and laboratory equipment; vehicles;
information, education and communication (IEC) materials, and other project related supplies.
Procurement o f goods will be bulked where feasible into packages valued at US$250,000
equivalent or more per package and will be procured through ICB.

(a) Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000 and more than US$50,000 would be procured
through national competitive bidding(NCB).

(b) Goods estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured through
National Shopping procedures. Contract will be awarded on the basis o f written solicitation
issued to at least three qualified suppliers, following evaluation o f bids received in writing from
such qualified suppliers. The award would be made to the supplier with the lowest price
quotation for the required goods, provided it has the experience and resources to execute the
contract successfully.
Community-BasedProcurement
The project will finance community-based sub-projects, for an estimated total o f US$38.1
million equivalent. The demand-driven sub-projects would comprise, among others, such things
as village wells, soil and water conservation infrastructure, village gardens, mills, village stores,
animal vaccination parks. These sub-projects are estimated to cost US$lO,OOO or less per
contract. Funding for these activities will be inthe form o f grants. Communities will be required
to contribute on agreed percentage o f the total budget in labor, or in cash (see Project
ImplementationManual for details).


                                                  49

Financing of activities, for which a negative list exists, will depend on applications received from
communities. Due to their demand-driven nature, it i s not possible to predetermine the exact mix
o f goods, small works, and services to be procured inconnection with these activities. Therefore,
the types o f activities to be financed and their procurement details will depend on the needs
identifiedby communities. Procurement o f items for the implementation o f sub-projects would
be carried out in accordance with simplified procurement procedures referred to the Project
Implementation Manual. The manual will describe procedures and tools in a special chapter
based on the Bank's Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for Community-
Based Investments (February 1998). The procurement Specialist o f the CCU, the facilitator
supporting ADCs, and procurement specialists at the rural municipalities level will be
responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines, and ex-post reviews o f random sub-
projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independent technical auditors.
ConsultingServices,Studies,andAudits (US$3.3 million)
Consultant services, studies and training financed by IDA would be for the following types o f
activities: studies, monitoring and evaluation activities, trainers, community development
specialists, CCU and R C U core staff, procurement, financial management, financial and
technical audits, and accounting specialists.

    (a) Quality-and-Cost-based Selection: All consulting service contracts for firms would be
    awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method including the selection
    o f Auditors. To ensure that priority i s given to the identification o f suitable and qualified
    national consultants, short-lists for contracts estimated at or less than US$100,000 equivalent
    may be comprised entirely o f national consultants (in accordance with the provisions o f
    paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of qualified
    individual or firms are available. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they
    would not be excluded fiom consideration.

    (b) Consultant's Qualification Selectionfor contracts estimated at US$lOO,OOO for firms, and
    US$50,000 for individuals, may be used for consulting services for research, and targeted
    interventions for which organizations with specialized expertise, strong capacities to work
    with vulnerable groups and proventrack records would be recruited. This method may also
    be used for the selection o f training institutions when training cost does not exceed
    US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract.

    (c) Individual Consultants for project implementation and assignments in such sectors as
    agriculture, economics, sociology, land tenure and other types o f short-term appointment that
    can be delivered by individuals, will be selected through comparison o f qualifications among
    candidates expressinginterest inthe assignment or approached directly.
Training,Workshops, Study Tours, and Conferences(US$3.9 million)
The total cost o f these activities is estimated at US$3.9million equivalent for the project.
Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis o f
approved annual training programs that will identify the general framework o f training and
similar activities for the year, including the nature o f training, study tours, workshops, the
number ofparticipants, and cost estimates.




                                                  50

ProjectImplementationManual(PIM), Administrative, Financialand Accounting Manual
(AFAM) of the Projectandother Manuals
The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) will define and specify the procedures for the
execution o f the Project. It will be composed o f sections detailing the implementation
procedures. Each section will describe the specific procurement arrangements to be carried out
andwill contain specific models for Sub-project Agreements.

The Administrative, Financial andAccounting Manual (AFAM)will describe the internal control
o f procurement actions, the technical specifications in each case, as well as reference to the
model contracts as per the Bank's SBD and RFP, etc. (submission form, contracts, etc.). It will
include: (a) a specific section on procurement detailing (i)  procedures for planning, calling for
bids, selecting contractors, suppliers and consultants, (b) a Project Implementation Plan and a
Procurement Plan for the first year of operations. It will describe: (i)
                                                                      the supervision and control
procedures, including operational guidelines defining the role o f each executing agency and
reporting requirements; and (ii)disbursement procedures.
Prior Review Thresholds(Table B)
Monitoring and evaluation of procurement performance at all levels (national, and community)
would be carried out during IDA supervision missions and through annual ex-post audit and or
technical independent audit. All contracts, which are not subject to prior review according to
Table Bywould be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 Appendix Io f the
Guidelines.
Riskand Frequencyof procurementsupervision
The Overall Procurement Risk Assessment is considered average. The Bank will agree with the
Government during negotiations for one supervision mission every six months for the two first
years, includinga special procurement supervision for post-review audits.

Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissions
Once every six (6) months (including special procurement supervisionfor post-review/audits).




                                               51

                                                        Table SA: Project Costsby ProcurementArrangements
                                                                  (includingConsultantSelectionArrangements)
                                                                                   (US$45 millionequivalent)

                                                                                                                  ProcurementMethod
ProcurementArrangements                                                                                                                                   Community
(US$ '000)                                                        IntemaIionaI     National                                                               Participation    Lump Sum
                                                                   Competitive    Competitive  Consulting     Consulting        Consulting     Local           m           Quotation
                                                                    Bidding        Bidding     SeNiCeS11   SeNkeS:QCBS         SeNkeS:CQ      Shopping    Pmsvrrment       Basis 2/      Total
A Genie Civil                                                                                                                                                                    105.6        105.6
                                                                                                                                                                                (86.6)        (66.6)
B. Biens
   VehicuIes                                                             1,329.2        332.3                                                                                               1,661.5
                                                                        (1,329.2)      (332.3)                                                                                             (1.681.5)
   Equipementet Materiel                                                   596.2                                                                   149.0                                      745.2
                                                                         (596.2)                                                                 (149.0)                                    (745.2)
c. services
   Consultants.enqueles et Ctudes                                                            .     2,345.2             763.0         2,559.9                                                5.668.9
                                                                                                 (1.333.4)           (742.4)        (2,265.6)                                              (4,341.6)
   Formation                                                                                -      1,182.2                                                                                  1,182.2
                                                                                                 (1.182.2)                                                                                 (1,182.2)
   Ateiiers et Campagnesde sensibiiisation                                                   .     2,008.0             566.3                                                                2,574.3
                                                                                                 (2.008.0)           (566 3)                                                               (2,574.3)
0, Subventionsaux investissements
   Subvenbonsaux InuestissementsViilageois                                                                                                                      31,058.0                   31,058.0
                                                                                                                                                               (23,890.8)                 (23,890.8)
   SubventionsBUX Invesbssemenb Communaux                                                                                                                        5.253.4                    5,253.4
                                                                                                                                                                (5.003.2).
                                                                                                                                                                .                          (5.003.21.
                                                                                                                                                                                           .
   SubventionsBYX micro-entreprises                                                                                                                                249.6                      249.6
                                                                                                                                                                  (217.2)                    (217.2)
E. Frais de Fmctionnement et dEnkeben                                                                                                  103.1     4,524.2                                    4.627.3
                                                                                                                                       (67.6)   (3,845.6)                                  (3,933.2)
F Fondsde Pr6paratiOndu Prolet                                                                     1,365.5                                                                                  1,365.5
                                                                                                  1,365.5)                   --                                                            (1,365.51
TOPI                                                                     1,925.4 -      332.3    ( 6,900.9           1,330.2         2.663.0     4,673.3        36,561.0         105.6     54,491.5
                                                                        (1.925.4)      (332.3)   (5.869.1)         (1,308.7)        (2,353.4)   (3,994.6)      (29,111.2)        (86.6)   (45,001.3)


Note:Figuresin parenthesisare the respectivezm"nb financedby L'AgenceIntemationaiede Developpement
 11Inciudingindividualconsultantsfar projectimplementation.training.workshops,
                                                                             ...
2i Lump-sum,fixed-pricecontra& awardedon the basis of quotationsobtainedfrom mreequalifieddomesticcontractorsinvitedin rnilingto bid




                                            Table SB: Thresholds for ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review'

          1 Expenditure Category              - -              I Contract Value                             I Procurement                          I Contract Subjectto Prior
                                                                 Threshold (US$)                              Method                                 Review
             1.Works                                             >= 250,000                                   ICB                                    All contracts
                                                                 <250,000                                     NCB                                    First3 contracts
            2. Goods                                             >=250,000                                    ICB                                    All contracts
                                                                 <250,000                                     NCB                                    First3 contracts
            3. Services                                          = 100,000                                    QCBC                                   All contracts
             Individuals                                                                                      CQ                                     All contracts>= 50,000
                                                                                                                                                     First2 contracts
                                                                                                                                                     All shortlists
                                                                                                                                                     All TOR
                                                                                           Consultant Selection
                                                IDA PriorReview for all Terms o f Referencesand for sole source contracts

             'Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult OD 11.04 "Review ofProcurementDocumentation"
            and

                                                                 OverallProcurementRiskAssessment:Average

            Frequencyofprocurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: once every 6 months(includes
            specialprocurementsupervisionfor post-review/audits)


                                                                                                          52

                           Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis-
                    MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


The project is expected to generate many benefits, some economic in nature and others social
and environmental innature. One cannot undertakea Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) for the whole
project because of this mix, and more specifically for the following reason: (i)     benefits of the
capacity-building components (empowerment of communities and support to local governance)
defy quantification; and (ii)benefits from investments in natural resource management,
education, health, similarly cannotbe easily quantified inmonetary terms.

However, one can undertake an illustrative CBA of the income-generating activities, which
ADCs are expected to undertake. The analysis shows that it should not be difficult to reach a
minimumof 10%internal rate of return(IRR) andeconomic rate of return(ERR) on averagefor
such subprojects as soil and water conservation (dikes and thresholds), acacia gum tree
rehabilitation, village garden, rental of agricultural equipment, mill, andvillage store.

Key hypotheses
It is assumedthat investing indikes would allow the production of sorghum (800 kgha) on five
ha of land previously uncultivated. Thresholds, on the other hand, allow a net gain o f 500 kgha
of sorghum. In both cases, to the value of sorghum production is added that of cowpeas (grain
and the valuable hay in these dry land areas). Vegetable gardens consider only fresh produce
valued at low harvest prices (50 to 100 UMkg), even though women generally transform the
bulk of the product for later sales at prices often tenfold higher. It is also assumed that
agricultural equipment (SOC) is rented20 daydyear on average. A mill may transform from 36 to
80 metric tons of sorghum a year compared to its theoretical capacity of 180 tondyear. The
benefits of a mill include lower processingcharge and savings intransport cost.

There is little difference between economic and financial costs except in labor cost (whose
economic cost is 50% lower to account for unemployment and lack of alternative job), and
transport cost (which includes 20% tax on fuel). Under project conditions, imported goods are
provided tax free to village communities.
Resultsof Economicand FinancialAnalysis
The table below shows high returns on the ADCs' investment (contribution) and on the total
investment as well. Some of the investments generate positive stream of revenue starting inyear
one, inwhich case one cannot compute an internal rate of return. The levels of net present values
reflect the size andthe total life ofthe investment.




                                                  53

Note: N C = not computable; NR = not relevant

Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis includes a break-even analysis and switching values. The break-even
analysis indicates the number o f years necessary to recoup the total investment, and not just the
ADC's contribution. This i s viewed against the total life o f the project. The switching value
indicates the percent increase/decrease o f a key factor that would bring down the internal rate o f
return to the benchmark (10%) chosen for the analysis. Factors other than prices are usedfor the
rental of equipment (number o f rental days per year), mills (annual volume o f sorghum
processed) and village store (total annual sales). Based on the level o f witching values and the
break-even analysis, the models display little risk. The case o f vegetable gardening, which i s
sensitive to low price i s not as risky as it appears for the following reasons: (i) o f all         prices
(about half o f dozen) products would have to drop at the same time; (ii)                women that tend these
gardens generally sell small quantities at harvest and transform (dry) the bulk o f the production
for sale at later periods at much higher prices; (iii)      the imputed labor cost inthe financial returns
i s high compared to its opportunity cost; and (iv) it takes only two years out o f 7 to break even.
All of this explains why vegetable garden, along withmills, are popular investments withADCs.


Sensitivitv Analvsis -Years to Break-Even and Switching Values




  Dikes                          5 (10)        >loo%           -58%           >100%             -30%
  Threshold                      5(30)        > 100%           -57%           >100%             -35%
  Acacia gum trees               9 (30)          50%           -20%             20%             -15%
  Village Gardening              2 (7)         >loo%           -40%           >loo%              -8%
  Rental implement               2 (7)           70%          -31%(a)         >loo%-           -68%(a)
  Mill
  - _...                          1(7)
                                    . ,         >loo%         -63%(b)
                                                                   . ,         >loo%           -68%(b)
                                                                                                    . _
  Village Stores            I    11(20)     I    50%     I      NIA        I   >loo%      I    -2O%(c)
Notes: N/A=not applicable; (a) rental dayslyear; (b) volume processedlyear; (c) store sales volume




                                                         54

                               Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
                   MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


The global development objective o f the Mauritania Community-Based Rural Development
(CBRD) i s to improve the living conditions o fproject-supported village communities, interms o f
sustainable income increase, access to basic socio-economic services, and good natural resource
management practices. The project would achieve its objective through capacity building
(targeting village communities, rural municipalities and suppliers o f support services to
communities), and investmentsineconomic, social and environmental sub-projects implemented
bythese communities.

During preparation o f the CBRD project, the Government o f Mauritania carried out three
important safeguard studies, namely: an Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF), a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), and a Pest Management Plan (PMP). The
studies have been conducted in order to assess project potential negative impacts resulting from
project-related activities and to determine mitigation measures that would minimize those
negative impacts. Because o f their demand-driven nature, the project activities are not known ex-
ante, but are expected to range, among others, from water supply, natural resources management,
integrated agricultural-livestock production, rural road rehabilitation, and various on- and off-
farm income generating activities.

The safeguard studies have been conducted under two separate international consultancy team
missions, using a broad-based public consultation approach, involving stakeholder groups in
Government     organizations,   private    sector   institutions, NGOs and community-based
organizations within project intervention zone. During the field visits, many regions selected by
the Project were covered. The ESMF and the RPF were carried out, in December, by Alka
Kothary (a consultant) and the PMP study was carried out, in January, by Djibril Doucoure (a
consultant).

An ESMF study, as opposed to an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA), was
deemed appropriate in this case because o f the demand-driven nature o f the sub-projects to be
implemented by communities not yet identified. The lack o f precise details-in terms o f their
exact location, scale, materials/technologies required-of     sub-projects to be financed under the
CBRD Project precludes the determination o f the exact environmental and social impacts and
their respective mitigations measures. Similarly, anRPFhas been prepared becausethe extent o f
land acquisition, loss o f economic activities, or number o f affected people cannot be determined
at this point. The RPF establishes the principles o f resettlement, organizational procedures for
land entitlement, consultation mechanisms o f and eligibility criteria for Project Affected People
(PAP). The ESMF is required to screen for and manage the potential environmental and social
impacts o f the CBRD Project, and to strategically assess and manage its overall environmental
and social impact. A PMP has been prepared predicated on agricultural-related activities, which
may requirethe use o fpesticides for phytosanitary control.




                                                 55

Potentialimpactsinclude:
Environment

       0   Soil erosion, loss o f biodiversity both fauna and flora due to road
       rehabilitatiodconstruction-related activities;

       0   Noise anddust pollution resulting from construction;

       0   Erosionresultingfrom non-rehabilitation o f quarries, borrows usedinconstruction o f
       civil works;

       0   Sedimentation o f streams, water bodies inthe vicinity o f construction sites;

       0   Stagnant water inborrow pit as a cause for water borne diseases, etc.

Social

       0   Involuntary loss o f land and/or other assets leading to loss o f shelter, property, loss o f
       economic activities, access to resources etc.
As indicated earlier, all these safeguard documents have been developed from the outset
following a broad-based participatory approach. Stakeholder workshops have been held
immediately following field visits to present preliminary results o f the study, to bring about
awareness on safeguard policies, as they relate to the project, and to seek stakeholder groups'
input on how to avoid or minimize project negative impacts. The workshops, which were well
attended and received, also helped deepened the thinking on how to go about selecting
environmentally and socially friendly sub-projects. One stakeholder workshop took place in
December 2003 to discuss the preliminary results o f the ESMF and RPF studies. Another took
place inFebruary 2004 to discuss the preliminary results o f the PMP study. The presentation o f
the reports generated significant reaction on the part o f a considerable and diverse audience,
involving government agencies, private sector institutions, NGOs and local communities
representatives, whose views were reflected inthe final documents.

The three safeguard instruments applicable to the CBRD project are: (i)        a clear description of
project components; (ii)a significant baseline information pertaining to policy, legal, and
administrative and institutional framework-within      which the project i s to be implemented; and
(iii) analysisofpotentialpositiveandnegative impacts; andofinstitutionalarrangements,
     an
with clear roles and responsibilities for screening, implementing and monitoring sub-projects,
along with their capacity buildingrequirements to effectively mitigate project negative impacts,
as well as enhance its positive ones. The ESMF, the RPF, and the PMP, which were all costed,
were disclosed in country and at Bank InfoShop in February 2004 and prior to Appraisal. The
recommendations o f the safeguard documents will be reflected in the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM).




                                                  56

                      Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                   MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment

                                            Planned               Actual
PCD review                                  June 18,2003          June 18,2003
InitialPID to PIC                           August 5,2003         August 5,2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                         August 5,2003         July 31,2003
Appraisal                                   February 26,2004      March 1,2004
Negotiations                                March 18,2004         March 19,2004
Board/RVP Approval                          April 22,2004
Planneddate of Effectiveness                August 8,2004
Planneddate of Mid-termReview               July 1,2007
Planned Closing Date                        June 30,2010


Key institutions responsiblefor preparation ofthe project inMauritania:

Community-Based RuralDevelopment preparation unit, Ministry of Rural Development and
Environment (MDRE)

Preparation Committee o fthe CBRD project, chaired by the Ministryo fEconomic Affairs and
Development (MAED).

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:
Name                                                       Unit
Ismael Ouedraogo             TTL                           AFTS4
Amadou Oumar Ba              Ag. Services Specialist       AFTS4
ElHadj Adama Toure           Ag. Economist (M&E)           AFTS4
SalamataBal                  Social Dev. Specialist        AFTS4
SossenaTassew                InformationAssistant          AFTS4
Nestor Coffi                 FMS                           AFTFM
SiakaBakayoko                FMS                           AFTFM
Henri Aka                    Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
Renee Desclaux               Finance Officer               LOAGl
Yahya Ould Aly Jean          DisbursementAssistant         AFMMR
Amadou Konare                Safeguard specialist          ASPEN, Consultant
Ezzeddine Moudoud            Decentralization              AFTPR, Consultant
Pierre Rocquoy               RuralRoads                    Consultant
Alexandra Goffin             Costab                        Consultant
Mamadou Diallo               Livestock Specialist          FAOICP, Consultant
Joseph Sabeh                 NRMSpecialist                 FAOICP, Consultant
Andre Simon                  NRMSpecialist                 FAOICP
L.RodrigueDjahlin            Community Development Specialist FAOICP, Consultant
Jan-Hendrik van Leuweren PSD Specialist                    PSD, Consultant
Katherine Kuper              Urban Specialist              AFTU1
SamanthaD e Silva            Social Protection Specialist HDSNP
Rolf Santorius               Social Impacts (M&E)          Consultant
EmmanuelNgollo               RuralDev. Specialist          Consultant



                                              57

Bank funds expendedto date onproject preparation:

1. Bank resources: US$212,842

2. Trust funds:     us$o,ooo

3. Total:           US$212,843


Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:

1. Remaining costs to approval:          us$loo,ooo
2. Estimated annual supervision cost:    US$80,000




                                           58

                       Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
               MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


1. Etude sur leplancadre de gestion environnementale et sociale (PCGES)
2. Etude sur lapolitique en matiere de relocalisation des populations
3. Etude sur le plancadre de gestion des pestes et pesticides (PCGPP)
4. Etudesur la stratkgie de communication duprojet
5. Etude sur l e dkveloppement local -Renforcementdes capacitks des communes
6. Etude sur les micro-entreprises rurales
7. Etude sur l'klevage
8. Analyse Cconomique duprojet
9. AmCnagements des bassins versants
10.Etude sur le conseilrural
11. Systeme de passation de marchCs communautaires
12.Manuel de mise en auvre duprojet
13. Manuel de procedures administratives et financihes
14.Manuel de prockdures du systeme de suivi-evaluation
15. Evaluation sociale duprojet




                                           59

                                         Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits
                               MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment



                                                                                                                        Differencebetween
                                                                                                                        expectedandactual
                                                               Original Amount inUS$Millions                              disbursements

Project ID    FY   Purpose                                 IBRD         IDA      SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.      Frm.Rev'd

PO78383      2004  MR 2ndMINING SECTORTA PROJECT               0.00      18.00   0.00      0.00      0.00     18.11     -0.50        0.00
PO78368      2004  MR Multisect.HIV/AIDS Control               0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     21.85      0.55        0.00
PO69095      2002  UrbanDevelopment Program                    0.00     70.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     75.61     24.52        0.00
PO71308      2002  Eduo.Sect.Dev.Program                       0.00     49.20    0.00      0.00      0.00     45.41     10.58        0.00
PO71881      2002  AFTKL: MR GlobalDist. LearningCenter        0.00      3.30    0.00      0.00      0.00      2.68      1.34        0.00
PO64570      2000  CULTURAL HERITAGE                           0.00      5.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      2.31      1.77        0.00
PO66345      2000  MR EGYIWATEWSANITATION                      0.00      9.90    0.00      0.00      0.00      4.74      7.67        0.00
                   SECTORREFORMTA

PO44711      2000  Maur:INTEGDEV PROGFOR                       0.00     38.10    0.00      0.00      0.00     10.93      7.03        0.00
                   IRRIGATEDAGRIC

PO55003       1999 Nutrition(LIL)                              0.00      4.90    0.00      0.00      0.00      1.48      1.40        1.40
PO57875       1999 MININGSECT CAPACITY                         0.00      15.00   0.00      0.00      0.00      4.76      4.66        0.00
PO35689       1998 HealthSect.Invest.Program                   0.00     24.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      6.10      5.68        5.70

                                                    Total:     0.00   237.40     0.00      0.00      0.00    193.98     64.70        7.10




                                                          MAURITANIA
                                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                               Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                              IFC                                       IFC

        FY Approval   Company                     Loan      Equity       Quasi    Partic.   Loan        Equity     Quasi      Partic.

         1996/00      GBM                         7.00         0.00        0.00    0.00        1.75      0.00      0.00        0.00
        0             PAL-Tiviski                 0.57         0.00        0.00    0.00       0.57       0.00      0.00        0.00

                                 Total portfilio:  7.57        0.00        0.00    0.00       2.32       0.00      0.00        0.00




                                                                             Approvals PendingCommitment

                       FY Approval    Company                            Loan      Equity      Quasi        Partic.




                                          Total pendingcommittment:       0.00      0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                    60

                                              Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                          MAURITANIA: Community-BasedRuralDevelopment


                                                                 Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan    Low-
                                                   Maurltanla   Africa  income     Development diamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(miliions)                             2.8      686     2,495                 Lifeexpectancy
GNipercapita (Atlas method, US$)                          340      450      430
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          0.96     306     1,072

Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                                         1
Population   (w                                            3.1      2.4       19
Laborforce (%)                                            3.3       2.5      2.3   GNI                                Gross
                                                                                   per                                primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                           capita                           nrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovefty line)          46
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                      60        33       30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                              51       46       59
Infant mortality (per (000live births)                    a 8       a5        81
Chiidmalnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                     32                           Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)          37        56       76
Illiteracy(% of populationage a+)                          59        37       37
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-agepopulation)         83        86       95         -Mauritania
   Male                                                    86        92      a 3                 Lowincome group
   Female                                                   80       80       87

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                                                                                             I
                                                1982     1992     2001    2002
                                                                                   Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               0.75       12       I O    0.98
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                     34.2    19.3     26.7     24.7
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                 40.1    37.6     38.0     36.8
Gross domestic savingsiGDP                       -n.4      4.8      14.0     9.0
Gross national savingsiGDP                        -8.1     117     23.8     32.2

Currentaccount baiancelGDP                       -36.9    -9.9      6.4
InterestpaymentsiGDP                               3.0      16      2.3       1.8
Total debtiGDP                                   151.5   176.6    258.6    252.2
Total debt serviceiexports                        8.5     17.3      18.7     8.5
Present value of debtiGDP                                          139.8                                                     I
Present valueof debtlexports                                      363.6                            Indebtedness
                                      1982-92 1992-02    2001     2002 2002-0s
(average annualgmudh)                                                                     -Mauritania
GDP                                        2.1     4.3     4.0      3.3
GDP percapita                             -0.4     1.2     0.8      0.4                      ~     LowincomeQroUD


STRUCTURE o f the ECONOMY
                                                1982     1992     2001    2002     Growth o f investment and GDP (%)
(% o f GDP)
Agriculture                                       33.1    28.0     20.9      21.4   75 T
Industry                                          23.4    29.2     28.6      31.0
  Manufacturing                                      _.    It6       6.0      8.3
Services                                          43.5    42.9     50.5     47.6

                                                                                                                           -
Privateconsumption                                78.4    78.7     70.4     72.6       1      87   98    ss    00   01    02
Generalgovernment consumption                     32.1    8.4       15.6     8A
Imports of goods and services                     84.7    52.1     50.7      52.6              -GO1          -GDP


                                              1982-92 1992-02     2001     2002    Growth o f exports and imports (Oh)
(average annualgmWrh)
Agriculture                                        1.5     4.0      -0.2     -3.6  20 T

Industry                                           4.1      18       14       4.2
  Manufacturing                                   -0.3     -0.1      5.9      2.6
Services                                           2.0     6.2       8.5      8.9

Privateconsumption                                 2.3     2.4       9.5      12
Generalgovernment consumption                     -3.7      4.1     -6.2     21.8
Gross domestic investment                          1.0    a.7       -5.9     -3.0        -Exports           -imports
Imports of goods and services                     -2.6     4.0       4.8      9.9




                                                                      61

                                                                                                                   Mauritania
                                                    ~          ~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982   1992           2001   2002        Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(%change)                                                                           T
Consumerprices                                        13.1        4.7    4.0
implicit GDP deflator                       13.1      13.0       13.7    0.5

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes current grants)
Current revenue                                      22.4        20.6   37.7              97     98     99       00     01
Current budget balance                                 3.0        3.8    18.5             -GDP        deflator -CPi
Overall surplusldeficit                               -2.5       -5.2    7.2


TRADE
                                          1982      1992        2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                                     Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

                                                                              P,,1                                               I
Total exports (fob)                                   400        345     321
  lronore                                             155         188    174
  Fish                                                245         155    155
  Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                                   459        357     388
  Food                                                 *37        1*3    x)6
  Fuel andenergy                                       36         92      92
  Capitalgoods                                         P1          61     56
                                                                                                          99
Exportprice index(895=WO)                              P1         87      82            96    97   98             00

import price index(895=WO)                             1P         95      97                Exports          mlmports
Terms of trade (SSS=WO)                                138         91     85


B A L A N C E o f PAYMENTS
                                          1982      1992        2001   2002
(US$ millions)                                                                     Current account balance t o GDP (Oh)

Evorts of goods and services                287       448        377      371
imports of goods and sewices                564       620         582    653
Resource balance                           -297       -772       -205    -281

Net income                                  -46        -67        -23     -27
Net current transfers                        66        149        a 2    256

Current account balance                    -277       -118         65

 Financing items (net)                      246         118       -78
Changes in net reserves                      30          3         0        2     1     96   87   98     99      00  01    02

Memo:
 Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)      144         65        286    372
Conversion rate (DEC, loca!fUS$)            51.8      87.0      255.9   272.0


 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982       1992       2001   2002
 (US$ miilions)                                                                     :omposition o f 2002 debt (US$ mill.;
 Total debt outstandingand disbursed       It37      2,x15      2,603   2,479
   IBRD                                      33         30          0       0
   IDA                                       49       229         475    544                    G:234


 Total debt service                          57         87         72      71
   18RD                                       2          15         0       0
   IDA                                         1         3          5       4

 Compositionof net resourceflow
   Official grants                           55        136        n 2
   Officialcreditors                        182         83         47      62
   Private creditors                          7         -2          -3       1
   Foreign direct investment                 15          8         30
   Portfolio equity                           0          0           0

 World Bank program
   Commitments                               14         29         66       0       i-IBRD                           E Bilateral
   Disbursements                             28          13        48      39       I- IDA    D- other rmitiiateral  F Private
                                                                                                                      --
   Principalrepayments                        0          U           2       1      >-IMF                            G- Short-ter




                                                                     62

