7-A-I                              - // /'- /-J / 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12309-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 17, 1994
MICROGRAPHI CS
Report No:         12309 PE
Type: SAR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrcted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiad duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



CURRENCY EOUIALENTS
Currency Unit = Sol
US$1 = 2.15 Soles (October 15, 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metic System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEPRI        -      Special Privatization Committee (Comite Especial de Privatdzaci6n)
CMCPL        -      Lima Municipal Bank for Popular Credit (Caja Municipal de Credito Popular de
Lfrna)
COPRI        -      Commission for the Promotion of Private Investment (Comisi6n de Promoci6n
de la Inversidn Privada)
CORPAC       -      Peruvian Airport and Commercial Aviation Corporation (Corporaci6n Peruana
de Aeropuertos y Aviaci6n Comercial)
DGC          -      General Directorate of Roads (Dlreccf fn General de Caminos)
DGTA         -      General Directorate of Air Transport (DirecciOn General de Transporte Aereo)
ECLAC        -      U.N. Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
ENAFER       -      National Railway Company (Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles)
FCC          -      Central Railway (Ferrocarril del Centro)
FCS          -      Southern Railway (Ferrocarril del Sur)
FCSO         -      South-eastern Railway (Ferrocarril del Sur Oriente)
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
GTZ          -      German Agency for Technical Assistance (Gesellschaft fir Technische
Zusammenarbeit)
ICAO         -      International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IDB          -      Inter-American Development Bank
]ERR         -      Internal Economic Rate of Return
w            -      Metropolitan Planning Institute (Instituo Metropolitano de Planificaci4n)
IRI          -      International Roughness Index
KfW          -      German Development Bank (Kreditanstalt fr Wiederaujbau)
LCB          -      Local Competitive Bidding
LIB          -      Limited International Bidding
MEF          -      Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economfa y Finanzas)
MLM          -      Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (Municipalidad de IUma Metropolitana)
MTCC         -      Ministry of Transport, Communications, Housing and Construction (Ministerlo
de Transportes, Comunicaciones, Vivienda y Construccidn)
NGO          -      Non-Governmental Organization
NMT          -      Non-motorized Transport
PCU          -      Project Coordination Unit (Unidad de Rehabilitaci6n de Infraestructura de
Transporte - URK)
PPF          -      Project Preparation Facility
SINMAC       -      National Highway Maintenance System (Sistema Nacional de Mantenimiento de
Carreteras)
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditures
UCPP         -      Loan Coordination and Preparation Unit (Unidad de Coordinaci6ny Preparacion
del Pr'stamo)



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
TRANSPORT RENABTUrATONYRS
Tableof CnU=
Loao anddPtojectSummary ................................                               ...   Hi
I.   THE ANSPRTSECRANDTREECONOR ....................... I
A. IheeCoumtryandits EconomicSeuing .                    ....,                         1
B. TheTransportSector                     . . .                                       2
C. Road Transport ............................................ 4
D. Raiways ....   6
E.  irTrasport ..................... .......................  10
F. Transportin theL mMetropolitanRegion ...........................  11
G. Sector ad Policy  sues  .....................   12
H. Previous Bank Experience in the Transport Sector .......... ............  13
ii.    THEPRQI   ........... . ..........................   14
A. Rationale for Bank Involvemet ..................................   14
B. Project Objectives .................................... 14
C. Project Description .................................... 15
D. Project Costs and Financing ....................................  19
E. Projectlementaon ................................... 21
F. Procurement                .......................... 23
0. Dioursements,Acco ting and Audits ..............................  26
H. Reportng, Monitoring and Superiion .............................  27
T. FinancIsAndysis ..........................................  28
J. EconomicJustification ..                                                          31
K. Enviromental Aqspc ..     34
L. Project Risksand Safepa ..                                                        35
IIIL  AGfE.EM  REACE AND REWUMMA= . ..                                                       37
Mais report is bad on th finding of an appraia misio wh vistd Pau in June and July 1993. Tb mission comprised
Mess./ines. Gethard Mwkhoff Clask Manage). losd Beia (alway EBner), Pa Gudnk Crapspcii),
FrannieHumuplick(Eonomist), Gardsiutad (ighway Eng    Moz MMdka (FnlAnalyst, Norna Rodrd
(Opions Astnt), Juan David Qro (ionmel Spoeis), and Jaime Crmllana, Leif looes, Serglo PMan,
Pet Schefes and Ulbe van Loon (Conulan). Mudi of do prjet wu prepaed by consua  washing in the Loan
Coordinion and Ppaaon  Uni (UCPP), inchdWi Mart Julia Guan (Coordinor), NStOr Ps, Ro   Garots, Sara
Ball, Amando Rivera Enges). RotAo PIas, Luas ibadott, Maoelorac, EsheVadivis ( omist), and Henia
ArisizibAl, Anoni Clve, Wiledo Gutnz, and Jos Ris (uvuom    Spel). T  pcer w em       e Mess.
Sephe Star   nspotSpecalis) adl    Rebeloa        Plan). Mes   Aifai, Orvie Grm   and Rainer
St hanarerespectrvly managingDin ClefP4ojeAdviser, adDepamDie rothwopeon   Ms. Glria
Berneo aisted in t production of tis report.
This document has a restrctod distribution and may be used by recipients onl in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may no otherwie be disclosed without Wodd Bank authorization.



ii
ANNE=
1. AnCOvehewofTransportConditions andlBues ...............             ........ 40
2. Policy Objecdves, Stratees and Priorities, and
Refoms in the >rKSport Ser ...........                      . ......     . 55
3. Previous BanExpeeer ie             elthTra.sp. te.t.r....  59
4. Road Rehabilitadon and Mainteance . . . . . . .... ...       . ........   63
5. Road Administration and Finance  ..  .   ... .           ......... ...    74
6. PivatioionandRhailitaonof the Riawas ....................                  80
7. RehabilitationofLimaAlrportRnway        ..                                  96
8. PiotProjectforNon-MotorizedTransport nLima. . . . .104
9. Technical Assistance ...............                                       110
10.TrdingProgrm  . ..                                                         113
11.DeaDled ProjectCostsand Fnancng ........................... . 116
12. 1Iementation Schedule, Monitoring Indicators and Project Superido    ....118
13.EstimatedScheduleofBank LoanDisbusements               . . . .             127
14. Econonic Evaluaton              ................  128
15. EnvionmentAql Aspes. . ..                                                 136
16. Selected Documents andDataAvailable lntheProject F.....142
TABLES
Tablel       ModalDistribution ofDomeslc FreigtTrafficc  ......    . .......... 4
Table2       ENAFER-SelectedFinancial Data,1990-92 ............                 9
Table 3      Project Cost Summary ..........................  19
Table4  Financing Plan.....  20
Table 5      Procurement Arrangements .............................  24
Table 6      E     ed Disbusement .. .............................  26
Table7       LoanDisbursementsbyCategory   .........................  27
Table8       Trends inRaiwayTraffic,1987-1M   ........ .............. 29
Table9       FianiPojecdonforRallways ...... ...................  30
Table 10     Economc Evaluation of Road RAiationSh          ........Schemes . ....  33
MAPS
Nationa Transport System:  MD 25544
Pilot Projec for Non-Motrized Transpo in Lima: IBRD 25105



In
PERU
TRANSPORT R 1HAJITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Sun_nary
Borrower:                   Republic of Peru.
mplauen-Ing Agendes:        Minwtry of Trprt, Com     cations, Housing and Construction
National Railway Company (ENAFER)
Municipality of Metropolitan Lima.
Amount:                     US$150 million equivalent
Tom:                        Repayment in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Banks
standard variable iterest rate.
Project Objectves:          The main objectives of the project are to: (i) rehabilitate eential
nsport infrastructre which, primily because of insufflcient
maintennce, has fallen into disrepair; Qi) assist Government in
Lmplementg institutional reforms in the road and raflway subsectors,
aiming at improved resource use and sustnable development; and (I)
lay the ground work for future projects focussing on strengthened road
management, increased private participation in the tansport sector, and
improved mobility of the poor.
Project Descipdon:         TMe project would consist of five components, the most importan
concerning ma reabi1=ittan nd maintnance. Six roads totaling
725 km would be rehabilitated under the project. Of these, 307 km
were included in the Wodd Bank's previous highway loan, but could
not be completed. In addiio  tis component would include (i) a
bridge program Involving the acquisition and recovery of Bailey bridges
and the reoostruction of derelict old bridges; (Ui) a pilot maintenan
program focussing on 620 km of road in a specified corridor, and Ol
a traffic safety program. In parallel, the project would support
govemment efforts to rebuild an intitona structure capable of
maintainingthe road system. The second component would help to
patizeand rebabilitate the UaDway. by (I) reducing staff redundancy,
(u) rationalizing raiway debt, (iii) closing down or receiving budgetary
transfes from the Government for unprofitable services, and (iv)
ilitating tracks, telecom   cons and locomodves to keep the
railway in operating condiion whfle the privtzaton process is
underway. The third component concerns the reabiliadon of Lima's
aiXort tunway which, acrding to ICAO and some major airlines, is
in urgent need of repair, before it becomes a danger to viation. The
fourth component would be a piot poject for nonmtotized tansr



iv
inLimato test methods of promoting the use of bicycles by low-
income residents.  The fifth component, technicl asistne and
aning would (I strenen the  suonal capacity for magng
roads and bridges, and to support the creation and fostering of au
autnomous agency reponsible for planing, opeat, fiancing, and
the highway network; (11) build capacity In the MCC to
mae    enron      l Isues; and (li) assist the railway in its
pVzaton and imprving its manement
Project Bendits:           The main project benefit would be a more efficient and cost effective
transport system that will stimulate a higher level of economic acdvity
in the county. lbe project would contnue to remove physical
constis i   transport infrastructure, reduce tauport costs for goods
and passengers, anmd would support expors, farm production, and the
mobility of people. It would help alleviate rural poverty in the poorest
areas of Peru, through provision of improved roads and employment
generationthrough labor-based road works. The in     economic rate
of return for te ovall project is 27 pernt, ranging between 22 and
39 percent for the road rehabilitaton schemes, 15 percent for the
ralwa rehbilitation, and 25 percent for the runway rehabilitation at
Lima airport
Projet Ris:                 Possible risks include: (J) inadequate provision of counterpart funds for
project implementaion; (I) insufficient budgetary resources for road
maintenance during and after the project; (ii) inefective project
managemIIt, especiy arising from a lack of insttional capacity of
the imlementg agencies; (iv) Isfficent absorptive capacity of the
domestic couction indtry; (v) lack of sustained commitment in
reforming the railway; and (vi) mishaps or inordiate delays in the
high-visibility airport nuway rehabilitation. Finally, a risk that cannot
be discounted is the possibility of armed terworism against the
contacors during the execution of the works.
Rate of Retun:             27 per
Pot Catego:                Not applicable.
FAtmated  b            (U$ million):
___ _.__l_________-_'-                     r                  *
L  ___________  1994       1995  I 1996    1997        1998      1999
Annual          15.0    30.0    48.0       36.0      18.0       3.0
Cumulat          15        5.0  f 93.0    129.0    147.0    150.0



V
Esmated Project Costs (US$ milion):
Projed Comnpon                              Lal   Fo           Tam       Totl      % Foeg
Road Rehaiite   (il. Deigp and &"pv.)       53.0      28.6      6.8      88.4         32
&lUg. RhbIliaon (md. leaip and Supev.)      11.6      7.9       27       222          36
Road M8 nane (mol Desip  n Supaviuon)        5.1      2.8       0.7       8.6         33
Eqimet for Road Lbot                         0.0      0.2       0.1      0.3          67
,afUM Safdey ?MM                             0.3     0Q         0.2       1.0         50
Dei of Puto Road Reilitaio Schemes           2.2      1.2       0.6      4.0          30
Railway Privatiation and Rdehbilion          5.9      21.0      8.1       35.0        60
Runway Rehbiiton at Lim Aipost              8.9      13.8      2.0       24.7        56
Pilot Poject for Non-Motorized Tapt in Lima  2.0      1.1       0.3       3.4         32
Technial Anoe and Tmuin                      2.0      2.8       0.9        5.7        49
projetmanag t                                4.1       0         0        4.1          0
Subtotak lDe Cst                        95.1     79.9      22.4      197.A
PIW*d C"Sngmda                              14.0      11.8      3.3      29.1
Pxioe Contin  s                              7.5      6.3       1.7      15.5   _
GRAND TOTAL                                 116.6     98.0     27.4      ze.0         41
Projec Ftmadng  S$ miion):
ProjeI. Compe                                        oank                     KEW        ToWal
Road Rehabilitation (mcI. Design and Superv.)         18.1        52.2        38.0       108.3
Bridge Rehabilitation (mcl. Design and Superv.)        5.6        22.2                   27.8
Road Mantenance (mcl. Design and Superv.)              2.1         8.7                    10.8
Equipment for Road Laboratory                          0.1         0.3                    0.4
Traffic Safety Program                                0.2          1.0                     1.2
Design of Future Road Rebabilitation Schemes          0.7          4.1                    4.8
Railway Privatization and Rehabilkation               10.5        31.7                   42.2
Runway Rehabilitation at Lima Airport                 8.6t        21.6                   30.2
Pilot Project for Non-Motorized Trspt in Lima          1.0         3.1                    4.1
Techmical Assistance and Training                     2.1t         5.0                    7.1
Project Mnagement                                     5.0          0.1                    5.1
GRAND TOTAL                                          54.0           .0       38.0      242.0
t     Inling $5 mmlion c     ton fium OPEC Pund
*     Vahw4dd tau an hpan  teohnial suiatan grnt ($1.1 mMiin).



L THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND TIlE ECONOMY
A. The Coutry and Its Economic Set
1.1   Peru, with an area of 1.3 million kin2, is a latd of great physical contrasts. The Andes, running
the length of the country, constitute a towering barrier to counications between the narrow coastal
plains in the west and the Amazon lowlands in the east, and present a chalenge to the provision of
traport irastrmcture and the conduct of economic and social activities. According to the 1993 census,
Peru has a population of 22 million, which is growing by 2.2 percent a year. Urban centers with more
than 2,000 people now account for 70 percent of the total population. The Lima-{allao metpolitan area
with 6.5 mfllion people accounts for 29 percent of the country's population, or 42 percent of the total
urban population.
1.2 Peru's economy, which is based on the exploitation of its vast natural resources, is
underdeveloped. It is the world's second largest silver producer, fifth largest copper producer, has
abundant fishing and hydrocarbon resources, yet only 3 percent of its mineral wealth is tapped. Peru has
a comparative advantage in value-added textile   actring which transforms high-quality Puvian
inputs - Pima and Tanguis cotton, Andean llama, alpaca, and vicufia - into sports and fashion
garments. Additionally, Peru has a promising agro-industrial base which could trn its coastal valleys
into high-production zones for agricultural exports (asparagus, melon, grape, tomato, coilla, mango,
and fresh flowers). The accessibility, retiability, and cost of transport are key fictors detemining the
success of these activities. In 1990, manufacturing contrbuted about 22 percent to GDP, followed by
agriculture and livestock at 13 pert, and mining and quarrying at l1 percent. IThe government share
of GDP was about 8 percent, construction about 6 percent, and fisheries about 1 percent.
1.3 For the last three decades, Peruvian politics and economic policies have been marked by
instability, elected goverments altening with miltary adminons. During these decades, Peru
developed a legal structure and policy envionment inimical to economic development. A state-led
development strategy created a complex network of controls and large, inefficient state-owned enterprises.
Heavy goverment intrvention in economic activity led to a waste of resources and deteriorating
economic performarce.
1.4 The first BelaiSnde administration (1963-1968) placed high priority on the developwent of
transport infrastrucure (especially highways) to systematically integrate the Siera (the mountainous
roon) and the Selva (the Amazonic plains of eastern Pem) into the national fabric. These projects were
carried out tirough a mix of large public works programs and thousads of small self-help projects.
During the next twelve years of military mle (1968-1980), the Goverment dramatically increased its
direct participation in the economy through large-scale expropriations of foreign-owned companies
inolved in sategic aspects of the economy. Government tervention became more pervasive during
the second Belinde (19801985) and the subsequent Garcfa (1985-1990) administrations.
1.5   Under the expansionary fiscal policies of the 1980s, large expenditures were undertaken in the
trart sector. Resources were used to fnance uneconomic investments for premature or over-designed
projects, such as Lima's partially-built rapid transit line, tren eldctrco. Policies to expand demand
followed by the Garca adminion, such as direct subsidies and rigidly-controlled public sector prices,



-2-
initially contributed to economic growdt. This also resuted, however, in an increased fiscal deficit,
higher inflation, and a deeline in the efficiency of the transport sector. Available resources were used
inefficiently and public sector agencies responsible for the maintenance of ifrastructure were starved of
funds. Ihis has resulted in a large infrastructure rehabilitadon backdog.
1.6   In July 1990, the Fujimori administion inherited an economy on the brink of collapse. The
bankrupt and disintegrating State had no money to proprly maintain its infrastructure, and its authority
was constantly challenged by subversive activities. The deteriorated transport system was unable to serve
its intended function. This administration lamuched a sweeping program of reforms to stabilize the
economy and restore financial relationships with multilateral agencies. A number of measures taken by
the Government had a direct impact on the transport sector, including: (i) drastic adjustments of public
sector prices and tariffs (e.g., the price of gasoline was raised 32-fld in August 1990 to US$1.50 per
gallon); (i) stringent controls on public spending; and Ciii) elimination of import licenses and streamlining
and simplification of import tariffs. The State began to disengage itself from activities bettvr handled by
the private sector.
1.7 Within the transport sector, the reform program has the following objectives: (i) to rehabilitate
transport infrastructure; (ii) to provide efficient and economic transort services; (iii) to establish
competition in the transport sector markets; and (iv) to transfer to the private sector those functions
Inappropriate for the public sector in its new role.
1.8    Transport efficiency has been improved by reforms introduced since July 1990. Nearly all
ransport regulations were abolished, including the tariff-setting Condsmin Reguladora de Tarifas de
7Tansporte, the CREIT commission. The result has been a general decrease in transport tariffs,
especially for freight (rail, trucking, and shipping). Urban transport tariffs have increased at a rate lower
than inflation, despite the drastic increase in fuel prices. A mnuber of public enterprises have been
privaized (urban bus, airine and shipping companies) or are undergoing a restrucuring process to permit
increased private sector participation (airport, port and railway companies). Private contractors can now
execute maintenance and rehabilitation acdvities, and enabling legiation for even more private sector
participation is in place. The private sector is now directly involved in port and airport operations, and
private operators and transshipment centers in the hinwteland can make use of multi-modal shipments.
In air transport, the Government retains authority over all traffic control operations; preparations for
privatizing landside operations at Lima asiport as well as awarding concessions for managing regional
airports are currenty underway. The decentralization of responsibility for financing, building, and
maintaining ihfrstucture projects to local governments is,currently being considered. Decentralization
of responsibilities for the provision and naintenance of infrastructure to local governments is also under
consideration. Annex 2 gives a detaied summary of the Government's policy objectives, strategies and
priorities, as well as the status of reforms in the ransport sector.
B. The Tanport Sector
ihe Peruan Thnspo  system
1.9    There are four disdnct transport zones in Peru: (i) the central corridor (Callao-Lima-La Oroya-
Huancayo); (ii) the southern corridor Matarani-Arequipa-Juliaca-Puno); (iii) the coastal region from
Talara in the north to Ilo in the south; and (iv) the Amazonic Selva. The cental corridor serves an
economic function, transporting mostly minerals from the mines and smelters at La Oroya to the port at
Callao. Rai and trucking carry about equal shares of the mineral and concentrate cargo in this corridor,
while trucking has a larger share of all other products. In t'he southern corridor, where product markets



-3-
are more varied, rail and trucddng are eqaly important. Wifitinthese corridors, there are segments that
rely solely on rail (e.g., Huancayo-Huancavelica). The coastal region involves some compeNtion between
trucking and coastal shipping for long- and short-haul cargo. The Pan-American Highway carries
passengers and freight along the coast and serves as a conduit for export traffic to Peru's Pacific coast
ports. The Amazonic Selva is served by a system of river ports with access to the Atlantic. Cargo is
collected in barges from points on the Ucayali and Maafidn rivers, through the port of Iquitos on the
Amazon river to Brazilian and overseas ports. Dlue to Peru's rugged terrain, airports serve the imporant
function of integrating the four zones. Most air traffic either originates or termines in Lima, with few
direct traffic movements among regional airports.
1.10   The Peruviantrmsportsystem comprises: (i) a classified road netwok of nearly 70,000 km. of
which about 11 percent is paved; (ii) a system of 24 maritime and river ports; (Mii) a railway network
(2,074 kn) made up of seven separate systems, with litte physical or operational integration; (iv) 300
airports and landing strips, only 16 of which have paved runways; and (v) a system of pipelines, the most
importa of which is the 900 kan North Peruvian pipeline from the oilfields in the Selva to the coast at
Bayovar. Annex 1 presents a detailed description of the transport system in Peru.
1.11   Transport plays a crucial role in Peru's domestic trade, conmunications, and national integration
because of the country's geographic and demographic setting. Communites on opposite sides cf the
Andes are barely accessible to one another without air travel, and the few highways and railways th
penetrate the mountains are periodically ravaged by floods and slides - the Central Cofridor route is
closed to traffic for as many as seven days a year. Neither are the urban areas of Peru served by efficient
and reliable transport systems. The poor in urban areas mostly live in low-income settlements (pueblos
Jdvenes) on the outskirts of the city and travel to the center for work and social purposes; in Lima, many
poor also live in the center. The city centers are congestd due to poor traffic management and ill-
defined use of space. Most roads in the pueblos jdvenes are unpaved and often poorly maintained.
Insthu*on  Framework
1.12 The transport sector operates through a mix of central and local government bodies, public and
private enterprises, and formal and informal sectors. The exten and scale of private sector participation
snd decentralization of services in the transport sector has greatly increased following the recent
privaization and restructuring of sta-owned enteprises. Tn addition to the already privatized public
enterprises in the transport sector - ENATRU, Aeroperd, and CPV - the Goverment intends to
privatize ENAFER, ENAPU, and CORPAC. Privatization committees (Com}its Especdales de
Prtvadzacidn - CEPRIs) uader thk aegis of COPRI (ComisIdn de Promocidn de la Inversldn Privada)
have been set up for these companies.
1.13   The Ministry of Transport, Comcations, Housing and Construction (MTCC) has overall
charge of the transport sector. The Vice-Minstry of Transport has four General Directorates responsible
for: Roads (DGC), Land Transport, Waterborne ransport, and Air Transport (DGTA). It also oversees
the three state-owned enterprises which are not yet privadzed: CORPAC, which operates and manages
public airports and landing strips as well as the air traffic control system; ENAPU, in charge of operating
and managing Peru's maritime ports and ioland waterways; and ENAPER, the national raiway company.
1.14 Following a succession of decentralization measures with respect to provision of transport
infrastructure (maWy roads), Peru's departmental authorities and municipal governments exercise road
maintenance and traffic management responsibilities. Regional directorates and municipalities have the
responsibility of maintaining and rehailitatg about 54,300 km (78 percent) of the total road network.
However, they are limited in resources such as finances, staff, and equipment. Several municipalities



-4
have joined together to coordinate municipal efforts in large metolitan areas One such case is the
Municipality of Metopolitan Lima (MLM), which is a grouping of 42 municipalities, jointly mangg
the transport system in the Lima-Callao metroitan area. MLM has five main rponsibflides: (@
plannint ; (ii) construction; (iii) maintenance of primary and Inter-district roads - some responsibiities
for malvmenance sdill remain In the hands of district municipalities; (iv) traffic operations and control; and
(v) provision of limited bus service.
Rol of Private Sedor
1.15  Private sector puticipation in the sector includes: (i) several private mining rai lines; (ii) several
priWae airports and landig strips; and ffii) associations of multi-modal cargo shippers (CONUDFI),
formal trucking companies (ANATEC), and urban bus operators (CETU). There is an extensive network
of informal service providers who operate without permits and licenses, thus avoiding payment of
corporate taxes and fees paid by the fonnal operats. Ihese Minformals" serv a significat part of the
passenger and goods market in urban and inter-urban tansport, handling for example about 30 percent
of all domestic fruit and vegetable transport Prior to the liquidation of ENATRU, informal bus opeators
were making about 90 percent of all daily trips in the capital. Most intercity passenger road trasport
is handled by owner-operator and informal bus operators.
1.16  In 1992, road transport accounted for about 71 percent of all demestic reight, as indicated in
Table 1. Tne use of trucking has grown substantially following the elimination of Import restrictions and
the deregulaion of the road transport industy. The trucking fleet is increasing, resulting in a rising
market share vis-l-vis river and coastal shipping and railuways.
Table 1: MODAL DISIBUTION OF DOMESIC FREGHT TRAFFIC
(ercenae dilru*on of tonage)
Year          Total          11*31         Road           Air         Shipping
1983           100            8             33            0.31           59
1988           100            6             36            0.20           57
1992           100            4             71            0.06           25
C. Road Tnsport
The Road Sym
1.17 Road Network. About 22 percent (15,700kbm) of the road system forms the national network,
comprising: (i) tree north-south axes: the 3,050 km Iong Pan-American Highway stretching along the
coast from Ecuador to Chile, the 3,500 km long Inca Highway in the Andes, and the parly-built
Carretera Marginal de la Selva (1,733 km); and (ii) twenty transversal links totalling 7,410 km in lengh.
Only about 37 percen (5,740 km) of the national roads are paved. The fully-paved Pan-American
Highway accounts for two-thirds of the total national paved roads. The departmental network (14,443
kcm, 21 percent of the overall system) consists of mostly engineered gravel and some (1I066 kn) paved
roads. The remaning 57 percent of the road system are classified as feeder roads and consist primaily
of earth tracks. The . c Id network deteriorated badly in the 1980s. Ihis trend has been receady reversed
'I



-5-
as a result of central govanment Investm  rehliadon and matena. By December 1992, about
29 percent of the natdo    network was raed Oporo, nary 54 percen  f , and only 17 prce
rgood".
1.18  TraMc Volumes and Road Sety. Pu had about 600,000 regstrd motor veicles in 1990,
the latest ye  for wich dat ae avaiable. About 40 pen of dhs wer bus  and goods vhides,
and the remainder primariy autmobiles. The higes nonurban traffi volume occur nea Lima, with
about 6,000 vehicles per day (vpd) on the Pan-Anm     Hghway and over 2,000 vpd on the Cad
Highway. Farther away fo  LUa, tho Pan-Amcan Highway carris 1,S00-3,000 vpd in its nother
sectlons and 700-2,500 vpd in the sou. On the rmgag 60 pert of th paved national road
network, volumes are between 500 and 800 vpd. The volumes on upaved rads am much lower, wit
80 percent of theseads carr   le tasm 200 vpd. Thes unved rads, however, play an Ipo4an
role In linkng dffet  regions. The Isue of safety in the road sector needs attenon. ithere are about
53 annal fatities per 10,000 vehicles, raking Peru among the worst in the wodd with regard to traffic
safety.
1.19       n                   work i largely dentralized, wih MCC etaining resnsiblity
for the national road nw   At preet, about 50 peet  of        o n the naiona network X
carrid out by force account; 40 percent by pivae  taor and the remainig 10 percet by labory
based progms. Due to sever neglect, about 50 pect  of the national network needs etnive
stregthnn  and ovelay, whie another 40 peret neds   facng and sealing to minz
deroration. Local and departmental goven.ents gneraly lack the Qm  to maintn equipment which
I thus nea the end of its usefife. As a result, abor-based t ni  bave been relied upon wit
some measure of succes.  ilon  r   ead pv   sector pricipation In road mainteace b
being consderd, including the use of concession-type conts. Other important measures hve also
been take In 1993 to impwve the pefomance of maitenance acdvities on the naIon  oad netwrk,
such as the creaton of a road fuid and the setnup of anatlonal system of road m
(SNMAC: Stm  Nadonl denMlmleo 4* adnCWe). Annex4providesfrther detailsonthat
issue.
1.20  Elnandng and A       tio.  Fing Is provided through centrl govemen budget
allocatons. Ihe Goverment colects taxes from vehide ownes on purchaes of fuel and on th
registration of the vehicles. At present, revenues from these sources exceed the funding required for road
maintenace by a fao  of five. Government has   flrmed at loan negotiaons tha It inteds to
contnuo Its policy of taxit road ue  for at least the amount spent on routne and peiodic road
mainteance. May toll collecton stat  were set up in 199 on the Pan-American bighway and
dsewhere, opeatd by a variety of loca autorities. As a result of the apprent disorder and misuse in
toll collection, t'he Govenmt abolised most toi staDons and, In August 1993, gave flC the
exclusive right to collect tolls on the nationa road network Tll revnes will be put into a road fund
(Fondo Vl) and ae to be used exclusively for road maintenance. Alternaive mecham  for toad
funn arwe also being considered, indclig the ollecto of excie taxes on vehides, licenes, and fae.
In 1990, the sources of reve were mtly from fud taes (95 perceat), with the remainder coming
from liens, registration fees, and Imt  taxes on vehicles. The proportonal allocation of central
goverment fuds to the road subsector has declined steadily from a high of about 87 pecent of all
cent  goveramet expenditures for transport in 1981 to a low of about 19 percent in 1989. bi trend
has recty been reversd wit the proportional allocadon to the road sub-sector in 1991 increasg to
60 pecent of all transport funding. Annex S provides a detailed discion of road administai  and
fiancing issues.



2he Road 1)mpoit Indus"
1.21   Trudkng. The trucking industry has a US$2 billion annual  rnover, employs over 300,000
persons, and is completely deregulated except for the emergency authority vested in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (MEF) to limit inflationary rises in the price of transport services. Peru's fleet
is estimated at between 70,000 and 80,000 trucks, of which 10,000 to 15,000 are inoperable, and another
20,000 to 25,000 are very old. This leaves Peru with an active fleet of 40,000 to 45,000 trucks in good
operating condition. The average fleet age is sevem years.
1.22 TIe lifting of import restrictions and deregulation of transport tariffs have resulted in intense
competition within the trucking industry and between trucking and rail. The result has been: (i) a
significant lowering of tansport costs (by about 50 percent in the central corridor between 1990 and
1992); (ii) a restrucuring of the trucking industry with a higher percentage of owner-operators than large
trucking companies; and Qii) an increase of trucking in markets traditionally dominated by rail and
shipping. The main benefits of these policy reforms have been reduced transport tariffs and increased
reliability of transport.
1.23 Import liberaization has allowed the entry of trucks which, when fully loaded, exceed the
capacity of Peru's highways and bridges. The central government has defacto legalized such importation
but has set up a schedule of fines for excess axle weights ranging from US$360 for an excess of 5 tons
to a maximum of US$520 for an excess of 15 tons or more. However, due to financial and resource
constraints these regulations are not being enforced. The existing schedule of fines was based on outdated
pavement and bridge designs and needs to be revised, along with gross axle load and vehicle dimension
regulations. The issues related to axde-load regulations will be addressed in a stL ;, funded under a loan
of the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB).
1.24  Inte-urban Passenger Servie. In 1991, it was estimated that inter-urban bus passenger trips
originating or termintng in the Lima-Callao area were on the order of 18,000 per day. Formal inter-
urban buses represent a US$8 million industry, served endrely by the private sector, with services
affordable to the lower income groups. For example, the 1992 fare for the 1,000 kn trip from Arequipa
to Lima was only US$8. Thera are no Inter-urban bus or truck terminals in the Lima metropolitan area;
buses therefore drop passengers alongside major roads, creatinpg congestion as they enter the city center.
Likewise, passengers are picked up by the roadside, thereby affecting the flow and safety of traffic.
D. Rilways
1.25 Railways play an important economic role in Peru, transporting minerals, petroleum products,
and other bulk commodities which represent a substantial part of total Peruvian exports. Railways also
provide an essential socal service, being the only mode of transport available for passenger and freight
services in certain corridors (e.g., parts of the Huancayo-Huancavelica and Cuzco-Quillabamba lines) or
during periods of heavy ra1i. Peru's railway network, comprising seven separate systems, is currently
managed by three different entities. The national railway company, ENAFER, owns and operates five
of these systems: 0i Central (FCC - 346 kin of standard-gauge main line) linking the port of Callao to
the Central Sierra; (ii) Huancayo-Huancavelica (FCHH - 129 km of narrow-gauge main line) linking
these two important cities; (iii) Southern (FCS - 855 km of standard-gauge main line) connecting the
port of Matarani with Cuzco, and with Bolivia via Puno by ferry over Lake Titicaca; (iv) South-Eatern
(FCSO - 172 km of narrow-gaue main line) from Cuzco to Machu Picchu and Quillabamba; and (v)
the Tacna-Arica line (60 km of standard-gauge main line) at the border with Chile. Centomin, the State-



-7-
owned mining company, owns and opera  two lines (272 kIn) and the pdrvate mining company,
Southerm Peru Copper, also owns and oeates a 240-km ai line.
1.26  Institutional Framwork.  ENAFER has a six-member Board of Directors headed by a
president, who is appointed by MITCC. The administrative and operating responsibilities for ENAFER
are vested in the General Manager, who is appointed by the Board. ENAFER has two opeaional
headquarters, In Lima and Arequipa; FCC and Huancayo-Huancavelica operations are maged out of
Lima, which also serves as a headquarters for ENAFER; and the southem routes are under the control
of the Arequipa office.
1.27  The decline in ENAFER's traffic and finances, and the deterioratin of its In ctur and
rolling stock, started in early 1985 and has been acute since 1990. These problems are partly due to
declining mineral exports, diversion of rail traffic to roads, oversafg, political intrence, and the
Inability of management to adapt the company to the changing economic envronmen  ENAFER needs
a radical reorganization including Its physical operations and financial procedures. More speciicaly, it
needs: (I) clear delineation of management responsibilities; (ii) rationalization of the role of the
Government In ENAFER's management; (iii) a stresmlined set of adnive and legal procedures;
and (lv) greater accountability and efficiency, including a drastic reduction in its staff.
1.28  Tramffc and Operatons. ENAFER has experienced a steady decline in its market share of the
transport industry durig 1985-1993, from about 8 percent of total domestic freight in 1985 to just over
4 percent in 1993. During the period 1987-1992, freight traffic dropped by 47 percent for FCC (from
1.5 to 0.8 mIllion tons) and by 45 percent for FCS (from 1.1 to 0.5 million tons). The general economic
recession and securiy concerns, especially trorist acdvities in the cenral corridor, have fturther reduced
the demand for railway services.
Raway Traffic, 987-992
2,000
1,800-                                                          FCC    )
1,600                            \CS (raw)
1,400                                                           FCS)
1,200                             .CS  l l x
400
200
0
1987       1988       1989       1990        1991       1992



4-8
1.29  Inefficient operaig practices have also contributed to ENAFPEs decline. In the cm of FCC,
the railway climbs from sea level to 4,829 meters over 182 kmn rahing the use of doubleeading
locomotives on the Callao-Huancayo line, where switchbacks make it Ipossibleto accommodate a trai
of more than ten cars and one locomotive. Maiine locomotves travel less tham 44,0CO km per year,
and freight cars less dtha 9,000 km on FCC. Locomotive power and rolling stock I bet  deployed on
FCS, which has a more faorable topography and longer avra  baul dita . Is locomotve
utiization is about 120,000 km per year, with freight cars averagig 14,000 kim, stll low by intnatinl
standards. The averag   freight car tunaru  time is 9 days on FCC and 18 days on FCS. IThese
figures could be halved by improved scheduling.
1.30  ENAFER's locomotive and wagon fleet deteriorated significay betweea 1985 amd 1992, as
finial constraints made it difficult to carry out necssary maintece. Locomotive availability remains
around 27 percent on FCC and 42 percent on FCS, compared to Internationl standards of 80 to 90
percent Freight car availability is also low: 68 percent on FCC and 79 percent on FCS (the industy
standard is 90-95 percent). Mechanical workshops are old, lack spare part, and are poorly located. Ihe
resulting higher maint ce cost result in loss of business.
1.31  A similar problem has occurred with the tracks. Speed restricdom had to be Imposd on several
sections for safety reasons. It has been difficult to put on longer but less frequent trains to accommodate
the reductions in speed because of the low hauing capacity of its poorly-m ined locomotives. A
recent survey of tracks indicates an urgent need for track mateials on ciical sections of the line. Ihis
Is prfculy true of FCS. There is lo an overal sge of tack                 equlpmnt, and
maintenance has been further affected by the staff reduction program. The proposed investment progrm
includes emergency funds for track, telecommunications, locomotives, and roiling stock to afrest further
deterioration of railway services.
1.32  Staffing. ENAFER is renegotating its labor agreements and, through a staff reduction progm
saed in December 1992, has reduced its staff from 5,440 to 4,068 (Decmb  1993); however, the
present ratio of 2.61 employees per lkm of track is stll high. A study of manpower requrements showed
at about 2,200 further employees are to retire by December 1994, provkIed fnds are avaiale to make
the legally required redundancy payments. This wil reduce total ENAFER employment by 54 percen
to 1,857, or 1.19 employees per km of trackt As this target is being achieved, ENAFER will improve
its operational and financial performace. The action strategy for the railwas requirs the Governmen
to provide ENAFER with about US$9.4 million to implement the stff reduction program.
1.33   Thmnael Performance. In 1990-1992 there was a serious deterioration of the railway's financial
position, caused by a loss in revenues with no corresponding decrease in costs. The loss was mainy
caused by a 21 percent decrease in freight hauled in 1992 as compared to 1990     twms of ton-
kilomete). Passenger traffic decreased even more sharply, by nearly 52 percent Further drops during
the first half of 1993 have brought the total reduction in passenger traffc to 71 percent  Table 2
demonstras that, during the period 1990-1992, operating revenues dropped by S1 pecent while the
decrease in the operatig expenses was only 22 percent. Operating expenses have remained high mainly
due to high labor costs, which accounted for more than onehalf the total 1992 opatig expes.
1.34  Operating losses during the review period 1990-1992 were financed by acmulating liabilities
- by not servicing the railway's debt and by deferring payments for personnel-reled contributions to
social secity, pension, and health plans. This futher weakene ENAFE's fincial position, as delays
In the servicing of debt and short-tem financial obligatons resulted in interest capitalization and late
paymet charges. As a resut, 1992 non-operating expeses exceeded the opaing expenses, and tot
expenses were nearly three times total revenues; the total outtanding debt at the end of 1992 was US$132



-9-
Table 2: ENAFER - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA, 1990-92
(743 VnMwa4g)                                  1990'         1991'         1992
Operating Reee                                54,017        43,935         26,269
Operating Expenses                            49,822         60,200        38,776
Net Operating Inome                            4 194        (16,264)      (12,507)
Net Income                                   (69,422)       (49.846)      (52,785)
Working Ratio                                  76%           113%           125%
Operaing Ratio                                 92%           137%           148%
Debt-Equity Rado                               127%          195%
FCC
Working Ratio                                79%           131%          150%
Operating Raio                              110%           161%          183%
FCS
Working Radio                                64%            97%          113%
Operating Raio                               71%           116%          130%
FCSO
Working Ratio                                112%          135%           108%
Operatng Ratio                              126%           171%          133%
gOpag Ratio: Operating expee divided by opertig rves
Woing Rato: Oprating exponses as daton dved by opeting revenues
t Exchange  esployed in conoerng Soles to Dollars: 0.21 (1990); 0.73 (1991); and 1.24 (1992).
* Negatve equty.
milion1. These inome losse together with etensive exchange rate depreiion, led to a drastic
redution in total eqity: from US$380 milliom at dte begining of 1990 to -US$9 million at the end of
1992.
1.35   PrIvate Sector Paticipation. Privatzation of state-owned entprises is a key element of the
Govermen's program for prvate sector development and public sector reform. The privatization
program alms to p         most public sector enterpdses by mid-1995. To this end, the Government
initiated in early 1993 the pdvatzatlon of ENAFER, and has formed a special privatzation committee
- ComiE4pedalde Pfvazacd6n(CEPRI-ENAFER). CEPRI-ENAFER has contracted an internaional
advisor to: assess the viability of ENAFERs various routes and services; recommend options for
' Debt outtng includes: acouns pay"bl wbich are overue by more than ane year (US$46 miion), ahorterm pordon
of to bog-Wm det (US$27 miion), ngntem dbt (US$37 million), and provision for social befeits (US$22 million).



-10-
restucturing and prnvatzaton; prepare a privatizaton straegy; provide advice to CEPRI on the
privatiation process; and help CEPRI-ENAFER in engaging qualified privatization consulats. The
privatization consultancy, expected to start In July 1994, will evaluate ENAFER and will be responsible
for issuing the sales memorandum and the tender documents by the end of 1994. Ihe consultants wiJl
be financed under the Bank's Privatization Technical Assistance Loan, 3540-PE.
1.36   At present ENAFER's main attraction to potentid buyers rests in its real-estate holdings and the
scrap value of hts operating assets. An Action Strategy has been prepared to accelerate the administative
and operational reforms of the railways deemed necessary for a successful privaizatlon. The Action
Strategy envisages ENAFER's resolution of its fiancial obligations with government help and entails in
addition: (i) the execution of a voluntary staff retirement plan; (H) the sale of selected non-operating
assets; (iii) renegotation of the collective union agreements; (iv) organizationad restructuing into cost
centers, including separation of management and operations for the non-profitable lines; and (v)
rehabilitation of railway infastructure and rolling stock to maintain railway operations during the
privaization process.
1.37  The Action Strate  also includes improvements in train operations, and workshop and permanent
way maenance. It also provides for the critical emergency investments needed to keep the railways
operational. Major capital investments would be left for fuatre private owners of the railways to make.
This stat  which aims to transfer a restrucured and functioning railway to the private sector should:
(1) reduce labor redundancy and remove excessive financial obligations; CH) assess the viability of the
various railway lines and services; (il) analyze structural options for privatizing ENAFER; Civ) evaluate
the company and its respective operating units; (v) prepare the tender documents for the sale of
ENAFER; (vi) process the tenders, and (vii) transfer the railway lines and operations to their new private
owner(s).
E. Air Trasport
1.38 Ihere are about 300 airports and landing strips in Peru. About 130 of these are privately owned,
and more than 110 are under the control of Per's regional governments. ITe Corporacldn Peruana de
Aertos y Avicn Corda (CORPAC) is in charge of the country's airports, landing strips, and
air traffic control as well as en-route navigation systems. It is responsible for 59 facilities, all of which
have a single runway, including the international airport in Lima. Aircraft can refuel at only 12 of
CORPAC's 59 airports and at 27 of its landing strips. In terms of navigational aids, 11 airports have
directional equipment, three arports provide instrument landings, 20 provide voice radio contact, and 29
have only radio directional beacons. Only 12 airports are linked to the regional air traffic control system.
1.39 Peru's airport system is not equipped to meet the challenges of an export economy and support
aional integration. The reasons for its poor performance include lack of resources, poor planning and
management, minimal maintenance, and obsolete navigation equipment Lima airport, the primary
aviation hub and the country's only airport with foreign airline services, Is badly in need of rehabilitation.
The runway pavement, which has not been upgraded since its original construction in about 1960, is
showing signs of severe deterioration (cracking and spalling) and is rated 'of concern" ty international
airlines.
1.40  Traffic Composition and Trends. In 1993, Lima airport was used by 33 airlines seving 38
international and 29 domestic desdnations. In the same year, Lima accounted for 26 percent of aircraft
operations, 41 percent of passenger travel, and 70 percet of freight tonnage at the CORPAC-managed
aiports. Domestic traffic, which accounts for two-hirds of all aircraft operations at Lima, peaked in



-11-
1987 and declined in the following five years due to depressed economic conditions; data for 1992 and
1993 indicate a reversal of that downward trend. International traffic has shown erratic Increases in both
passenger and freight volumec. The rehabilitation of Lima airport is a high priority for the aviation sector
and for economic activity in Pen.
1.41 CORPAC. CORPAC is a public enterptise which is supposed to be fimancially self-sufficient,
but since 1989 it has operated at a signficant loss equivalent to US$24 million in 1989, US$13 million
in 1991, and US$4 million in 1992. However, with the sale of Aerperd - which owed CORPAC large
debts for services rendered as far badc as May 1985 - opeating results are expected to improve.
CORPAC has reduced its labor force by one-third which should impwve its financial performance. In
order to reduce operating costs, CORPAC is proceeding with a privaization program to contract out
some of its aiport services.
1.42 There were ten domestic carriers in 1993: Faucett, Americana, Aeropern, Aeronaves, Aereo
Tumi, Adreo Continente, Adreo Condor, Adreo Sata, Imperial, and Expreso Adreo, in order of market
share. Aeroperd carried about 12 percent of domestic traffic and a significant part of international trsffic;
it caried a total of 400,000 passengers and 3,800 tons of freight, of which domestic transport accounted
for 66 percent and 31 percent respectively. Faucett and Americana had 44 percent and 39 percent of the
domestic market share, respectively. Te- domestic carriers compete in most market segments except for
the specalized cargo airlines such as Expreso Adreo. Smaller carriers supply tourist services, such as
Adreo Condor wbich provides sight-seeing trips from Lima to Nazca.
F. Trsport In the L3ua Metropolitan Region
1.43 The Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (MLM), which is run by a provincial govemnment, is
headed by an elected coundl which sets policy for the metropolitan area with assistance from the
municipal coordination assembly cnstiting 42 district mayors. The province does not include the port
of Callao, which is independent, with special provincial status. The chief executive officer is the MLM
mayor, elected every three years, who also serves as the mayor of Lima Cercado, the historic center of
the city. Because of the high degree of administrative independence of the metropolitan districts,
coordination within MLM remains difficult.
1.44  Traffic and Safety. AU urban tansport in Lima is by road. In 1988, about 6.4 million trips
were made by Lima residents using motorized means; about 81 percent of these were by public transport.
ouses are the main means of transport for low-income groups. The public transport fleet in 1992
comprised about 2,000 buses and 10,000 microbuses. While cars and taxis are the principal cause of
traffic congestion, trucks and buses contribute significanty to congestion, accidents, and air pollution.
Accident rates are high, with about 70 percent of fatal accidents resulting from vehicle-pedestrian
incidents. These problems are caused by poor traffic management, inefficient use of road space,
malfunctioning signals, bad sign postng, inadequate pedestrian walkways, and unsafe driving behavior.
1.45   Non-Motorzed Trmport. A municipal program for non-motorized transport was established
In 1990 to promote the use of bicycles in Lima. Tbis program aims to: (1) provide transport for people
who curently walk long distances; (ii) reduce tranWort costs for low-income residents now using the bus,
as well as save them time and improve their health; and (rii) reduce air pollution by divetng passengers
from buses and minibuses to bicycles. Recandy built bicycleways and experiments run by this program
have shown early promise. Annex 8 describes a pilot project component for non-motorized transport in
Lima.



-12-
G. Secor and Poilcy asues
1.46 The overall economic dedline and civil strife have exacerbated the major issues in the transport
sector, which arise from inappropriate policies such as: O) ill-advised investment policies and decisions;
(it) chronic deferral of mainta    leading to a staggering maintenance backlog; (ii inefficient public
sector agencies; (iv) regulatory and administrative failure; and (v) unclear and overlapping allocation of
responsibilities among national and local governments, community organizations, and the private sector.
Reforms made since July 1990 (Annex 2) have addressed some of these shortcomings; however, much
remains to be done. Ihe increase in private sector participation has itself raised new issues such as the
scope and rationale of interim investments in public sector enterprises targeted for privatization, and
appropriate regulation of private services.
1.47 Maintenance. The transport infrastructure is disintegrating due to sheer neglect over the last 10
years. Only 17 percent of the national road network is in good condition; locomotive availability is down
to 37 percent; and Lima's airport faces the risk of being closed to traffic if no significant action is taken
soon. Transport services to peripheral urban areas are limited by the poor state of roads. The
Inadequacy of secondary and rural roads has been a major obstacle to rural transport and has hampered
agricuural production. The main objective of this project is to finance emergency rehabilittion works
to correct the extreme maintenance backlog, and to initiate reliable and stable maintenance practices.
1.48  Weak Pubgc Instiutions. The capacity of sectoral ministries and associated public sector
agencies has been eroded due to (i) loss of qualified personnel seeking higher salaries, as well as
voluntary and mandatory lay-offs, and (ii) the lack of formal training of personnel in the public sector
because of fmancial constraints. Overstaffing, common in many public sector agencies, has been
drastically reduced following their restructuring or sale to the private sector. Similar drastic reductions
were made in MTCC's staff. Most agencies are now barely able to conduct day-to-day operations. Low
public sector wages also hamper attempts to retain capable employees, particularly technical staff. The
training component of the project will provide MTCC and its affiliates assistance to expand their technical
capacities during the restructuring process. As described in Annex 9, the project also includes policy
studies on highway issues and organizational reform of MTCC, and provides advisory services to MTCC,
ENAFER, and MLM.
1.49   Enviromnental and Safety Issues. MTCC is currendy unable to address environmea  Issues
associated with transport projects. Responsibilities for enviromnental and safety regulations are scattered
among agencies, and little environmentl regulation and enforcement exist. Urban environmental
concerns center on autmotive pollution and high accident rates in large cities. In rral areas, exisdng
roads show evidence of increased erosion, slope instability, and poor drainage caused by inferior road
design, construcon and maintenance. Ihe principal environmental concerns about railway operations
are the collection and treatment of waste water, and the disposal of solid waste from workshops and
mntenn ce units. Existing workshops have no run-off collection systems, or oil and grease traps;
however, oil recycling is a standard practice. Solid waste is disposed of in open dumps along railroad
tracks. The project proposes strengthening the environmental capacity of MTCC (Annex 15) to address
the foregoing issues. The project also promotes the use of bicycles in Lima, thus partially addressing the
issue of automotive pollution. It firther includes a road safety component to stem the growth of traffic
accidents, which exert a heavy toll throughout the country. In the railway sub-sector, the project supports
an envirorunental audit of the permanent way, stations, and workshops, to be financed under the Bank
Privatzation Technical Assistance Loan 3540-PE.



-13-
IL Previous Bank Experieoe In the rnhport Sector
1.50  As detalled In Annex 3, the Bank has made ;7 loam to Peru in the tmsport sector totalling
US$491 mMion. However, only twothirds of this m have boon disbursed. Of the total, 41 percet
wa for highways, 21 percent for urban projecs (a large part of which had urban tsport components),
16 percent for mli-modal projes, 12 percent for aviaon, 6 percent for riways, and 4 percent fo
pors. kmlemetio of these projects has been difficut due to the technical problems caused by
extme physical conditions, inadequate engineering designs, lack of counterar funds, and weak project
w          aavatd  by low salary levels for professionals in the execudtg agencies, which have
resud   in difficultes In recruitment and retention of qualified managers and engineers.
1.51   bewmaroeonomic conditions which beset the country om 1983 eventually led the Government
to default on its debt service payments to the Bank, resulting in the supension of all Bank disbursemens
to Peu In May 1987. Lack of countepa funds and istional weaknesses were the main reasons for
the unsatsfary performce and delays in transport projects. Other Bank projects faced the same
difficulties, which suggest ht ition building (the main aim of the Eighth Highway Project, Loan
2091-PE), regrdless of how well-intentoned, should not be limited to selected ministries in Isolation
from the generd coutry context
1.52 Other donors are active in the transport sector in Peru. Ihe Government has obtained a US$210
milion road rehabilition loan frm IDB, US$30 milion from the US, and grs  from Japan for project
preparadon and locomotive rehabiitaton for ENAFER. KfW and the OPEC Fund are also asssting Peru
hough cofinancing of the Bank project, as described in the following chapter.



-14
I. Tim PROJECT
A. Ratoale for Bank  nvolvemt
2.1    Until the mid-1980s, the World Bank played a major role in Peru's development. To the transport
sectr alone, It lt nearly US$500 million drough 17 project loans, of which tre were active when
the previous Government Insted is debt moratorium leading to ttie suspension and evena
cancelladon of those loans. The Fujimori administraon, on asumig office in July 1990, lnwhed a
program of stabilization and structua rerm. Ths Bank has sported the Governmes economic
refbrm program through four adjustment loans siped in 1992 and 1993, economic and sector work, and
crical techical asAtance. 'he proposed project wold be one of the first investment loans to Peru
since 1986, and would address needs which are critical to rnewed economic and social development
2.2 The goals of Bank assistance to Peru are to: (i) sustain stabilization and consolidate structural
reforms; (i) fost pra  devlopment and public sector reform; (i) alleviate poverty and promote
human resource developmen; and (rv) rehabilitate key infrastcture and redefine policies related to its
operation, maitce, an finance.
B. Project Objetives
2.3   The pwposed project emphasizes the fortht of the above stegic goals but also supports the
other three. The main project objectives are to:
*     rehabilItat essental transport inastructure which, primarily because of insufficient
mainenance, has fallen into diseair;
*     assist Goverment in implementing institutional reforms in the road and ralway sub-
sectors, aming at impved resou  use and sustnable development; and
*     lay ithe groundwork for futre projects focussing on strengthened road management,
inresed prvte pardcipation in the transport sector, and improved mobility of the poor.
2.4   The project ft into the Bank strategy in seval ways. Firs, it addresses the core istrucre
deficiencies through rehbiitaton, com nents in the road, raglway and airport sub-sectors. Second,
through the priatzation of  sport sector entities and the strengthening of restructured public sector
agencies remaining after pr  on, the BDank will influence policy reforms with regard to pivtzaton.
Some of the policy areas addrssed by the project concern user charges and financing of infrastructure
Ilvestments under mixed ownesp ublic/private) and decentraized responsibilities for maintenace
and rehabilitation. Third, the project will help alleviate poverty through: ) support to labor-based
programs for road maitenance; () provision of low-cost mobility through a non-motorized transport
component; and (Iii) improvement of rural access as most of the road components are In agricultural areas
poorly served by transport. Finally, with respect to        concerns, the project will (i) by
promoting the use of bicycles, help to contain air and noise pollution generated by motor vehidles, ii)
reduce soil ersio and pevet landdides by  mroving rad drinage and stabilizing the bed of the
raiway, (1i) establish new en  m     t cria for road constucdon and maintenace, and (lv)
strengten MA C's capacity to set and control envronmental stdards in the trasport sector.



-15-
C. Project Desaiption
2.5 In view of the dilapidated state of Peru's transport system, the project emphasizes the urgent
rehabilitation of key road, railway, and airport facilities. In addition, it supports the privatization of
ENAFER, the state railway company. To prepare a basis for fiture physical and policy improemens
in the transport sector, the project also includes technical assistance as well as a pilot project to support
non-motorized transport. The five project components are summaized on the following pages and are
described in greater detail in the Annex.
IL Road Rehblo  and HaiWtewaOe
2.6    The project includes the rebabilitation of six national road sections, totalling 725 km in length.
As described in Annex 4, they are key roads linking agricultural areas in northern and central Peru with
the coast. The coastal and central highways are being rehabilitated under a US$210 million loan of the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)1. The roads to be rehabilitated are:
1. Tarma-La Merced                72 km
2. La Merced-Satipo              122 kn
3. Hugnuco-rgo Marfa             120 ka
4. Tarapoto-Rioja                 135 km
5. Rioja-RIo Nieva               100 km
6. RIo Nieva-Coral Quemado       176Ikm
725 km
2.7   The roads linkdng Tingo Marfa with Pucallpa (256 kIm) and Puente Chanchamayo (Reiter) wih
Villa Rica (38 kIn) had also been consiered for inclusion in the project, but were subsequently deleted
in view of overall funding constraints. Nevertheless, detailec engineeing will be carried out for both
of them (and additional roads yet to be identified) under the project, so they can be implemented as soon
as funding is available.
2.8   The road component also includes the acquisition and recovery of Bailey bridges, renewal of
derelict bridges, a pilot road maintenace program focusing on roads linked to the Corral Quemado-Rioja-
Rfo Nieva-Tarapoto axis, and a traffic safety program. The bridge rehabiitation program involves the
acquisition of a minimum stock of Bailey bridges (tewmporary structures), the recovery of preiously
installed Bailey bridges and their replacement with permanent sttuctures, and the replacement of derelict
bridges. Most of the latter group will be identified through a general bridge study including the
inspection of existing structures and identification of rehabilitation priorities.Asies. loan
noiationm for the replacement of derelict bridges, an internal economic rate of return over 20 percent
will need to be demonstrated for all bridges estimated to cost more that US$500,000. Altogether, and
excluding the 16 permanent bridges to be built under the road rehabilitation program, the bridge
component involves the construction of about 44 new reinforced concrete structures. The pilot road
maintenance program focusses on 620 km of roads feeding directly into the Tarapoto-Rioja-Corral
Quemado corridor. This pilot program alms to: (i) provide a base for estimating unit costs to perform
typical n teance activities by contract; (ii) test and promote the use of micro-enterpises for road
maintenance; (iii) examine the deterioration patterns of various road surface types under altnative
maintenance strategies; (iv) provide a focus for field training; and (v) lay the foundation for a
'Irhuy Rq and Maance Poject appwed in Jamnary 1992.



-16-
entralized road ma_tace sta         and the stren ing of local Insions. lhe trafc safety
progam consists of the acqubition of sone urgently neoded mateials (such as guard rails) and a study
to develop a comprehsive traffic safety strategy, followed by urgent inestments to start implementng
the strtegy.
2.9   Paallel to the physical road investm , the project wil support goverment for to rebuild
an insdttional structure capable of maiaining the natioes road system, at the nationa and local level.
Recen reforms have led to the emasculation of road maintenance agencies and a near-chaotic imposition
of decentrized road tolls, the mere collection of which is esimated to consume 2040 percent of
revenues. The more promising ways to taclde this problem revolve around the creadon and/or
sngthening of decerized agencies with clearly defined responsibilities and sources of income. on
posile solution pursued by the World Bank in Africa, and promoted by ECLAC  for Latin America,
involves the creation of auonomous etees responsible for road management, similar in funion to
public uilities responsible for electricity or water supply services. In collaboration with the Germa
Ageq yfr Technical Asistac (IZ), a progrm of echnical assistance and an action plan was
fomulted for iutional and policy refom  in the roads sub-sector. Through a progr  of technical
assistance the project will sWort the process of improving road adminion and fince. With
uning from the IDB - supported highway project, MICC with soon itiate analyses of road user
carges and road administraton issues. A&reement was reached at loan nefftiations that MICC will
keep the Bank iformed on the progress of and issues considered by those analyses, and that MTCC's
acdon plan with regard to road finance and    n   wll be submitted to the Bank no later than
Deember 31, 1994.
2.10  Excludig the rehabilitaon and maina   opert-ions to be carried out under the MDB-financed
progm (3,450 kn) and under this project (725 km of road rehabilitation plus 620 km of the road
ma*int ce pilot program), the Gov eent will still have to cope with the reguar maintenance of about
11,300 km of priay road. As shown in Annex 4, at least US$50 million are required annually to
adely mainai those roas. Covermnent Dmdded a ces at loan neotiations that, for the
duraion of the project, an annual allocation of not less than US$50 million, to be updated and agreed
with the Bank between July and October of each year, would be made in the budget for the mantenace
of atio  roads other t   those covered directly under extnly financed projects, and that these funds
would be released in a thiely manner.
2.11  In the meantm  and peing the implemeon of an agreed new inshtionra structre, the
project includes a mnmber of immediate actions to improve the capacity of the Genera Directorate of
Roads areccn  GeweTal de Cam  os - DMC) for more adequate plannig, costing, execution and control
of the          program to be caried out in the next several years on the primay road network, and
for providing technical advice to local govnments. These actions include: (i) the carrying out of a
ntwork inventory comping a pavement surface conditon survey and traffic volume counts over the
national road system; (ii) the setting up of departmenta agencies responsible for the detailed d.esign,
budgetg, implemenion and monitoring of the mainenance acties falling within their respective
geographical territories; this measure involves either the reassignment of the engineers who were formerly
agen  of the DGC but were lat  trnsfred to the Regions or the containg of engineers from the
private sector; and (Iff) the strengthening of the National Road Laboratoy, in tems of both equipment
and stg, thu enabling thi Instion to beter play its role in data collection, technical advice, quality
control, standard aon,  d research. The actions under Oi and (ii) were initiated in late 1993, in
2 Untd NaWo= B9onom  Comnllu for LAtn   ica ad the Caibbem (ECLAC), Cmbo, ax nw  auqe pare 1
gat   cy mwetc16n de ro15 vias, Siago, 1992.



.17-
particular with the creation of SINMAC (Sistema Nacional de Mantenimlento de Carreteras) as an almost
autonomous entity responsible for the planming, management and (through its departmental agencies)
control of maintenance activities over the national road network.
1. Ralway Wvaizadon and Rehabilataon
2.12 The overriding objective of this component is to assist the Government in privatizing its nstional
railway company ENAPER. As part of project preparation, several strategic actions were agreed In
principle, which would be needed to prepare the company for privatization. This action strateg which
was conirmed during loan negotiatiorL Involves the organizational restructuring of ENAFER into at least
three separate entities, a significant reduction in personnel, the sale of assets not required fbr railway
operation, the payment of ENAFER's arrears to utility companies, and the preparation of tender
documents to sell the restructured railway companies. It is expected that tender documents will be issued
in late 1994, with the sale to private interests taking place in 1995. Based on current operatioall trends,
most railway operations would come to a halt in 1995 due to the dilapidated state of track and rolling
stock and lack of spare parts, unless an emergency rehabilitation program is undertaken. Accordingly,
the physical aspects of this component aim to keep the railways operating through 1996, by which time
the new private operators will be startng to make their own investments.
2.13   As described in Annex 6, the component includes: track rehabilitation; locomotive and wagon
rehabiliation; lengthening of switchbacks; workshop and track maintenance equipment;
telecommunications works; and an environmental and safety study of FCSO near Cuzco. These
investments address the most urgent needs and aim at keeping the ralways operational while the
prvatzation process is still underway. Technical assistance to define structural options and conduct
additional financial evaluations of ENAFER is being supported by a separate Bank loan.3 The investment
package is directly linked to the privaization process shown In the action strategy. The Government's
stategy to privatize ENAFER was confrmed during loan negotiadons including: (X) the preparation of
a timed action plan to restucture and privatize ENAFER; (ii) assumption of ENAFEVs accumulated
debts and other liabilities; (Iii) a staff reatructuring and traiining program to improve labor productivity;
(Iv) definition of a financial and operational policy with regard to non-profitable railway lines; (v)
commitment that ENAFER will not undertake investments over US$5 million per year without the prior
agreement of the Bank; and (vi) preparation of tender documents to sell the restructured railway
companies. As a condition of disbursement for the railway component, the Government will submit a
timed action plan acceptable to the Bank to restructure and privatize ENAFER. This plan would also
address the possibility of selling FCC to the new owners of Centromin, the mining company to be
ptivatized in early 1994.
IH. Runway Rehabilitation at Lima Airpod
2.14   As described in Annex 7, urgendy needed repairs will be made to the badly deteriorated runway-
taxiway system which was built more than 30 years ago. The technical designs for its rehabilitation,
which were prepared with assistance from the Internaional Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), specify
a new asphalt-concrete overlay of about 230 mm thickness on top of the existing cement-concrete runway
slabs. The rehabilitation will be carried out by prequalified specialized contractors. Their work will be
done in 8-hour periods every night, during which all aircraft operations will be suspended; these
'Prvaadon Tehkcal4stAnce Loan 3540-PB, approved i Dorber 1992.



-18-
restdons wil last about 6 months and requite appropriate consultations with the airlines using the
airport A second period of about 9 months will be needed to complete the works, including txiway
rebabilitation and Installation of lighting and instrument landing systems.
IV. Pilot Projedt for Non-motor*d Thmrot (NM2) In Liaa
2.15  As detiled In Anne  8, this component Includes the constuction of four bicycle ways and
associated bicyle lanes, which will connect the Lima-Callao Industial area with low and middle income
residential areas. In addition, a revolving fund will be established with the C4a Munidcpal de CrOdito
Popular de Lima (CMCPL) to provide credits for the purchase of low-cost bicycles, parking will be
provided, and pomtional and educational campaigns will be coaducted. 'Me results of this component
will be closely monitored to help in developing a city-wide NMT master plan. It Is expected that this
pilot project and possible fiture works of a similar nature will bring significant benefits to the urban poor
In the fomal and informal sectors.
V. Tee nca Assivtaw  aNd Trnag
2.16  In addi  to consuc services directly related to project implemention, such as the design
f road rh tion schemes and the constuction supervision of individual components, the project
Lncludes teuchnical assisace to strengthen the institutional capacity for managing roads and bddges, and
to support the creation and fostering of an autonomous agency responsible for plannng, operating,
controng and financing the highway systemL The principal objective of this component is to strengthen
MTCC's instittional capacity so it can adequately perform its function as the key government agency
coernd with the transport sector. The technical assistance component also supports the railway agency
in its restrucuing and privatization efforts and in operation and management during the transition period.
Annex 9 deibes the objectives and basic scope of technical assistance and those studies which are in
addition to project design and implemention itself (e.g., fia road designs and a traffic safety study
which are grouped with the road component). Annex 10 describes the training activities provided under
the project The followng summarizes the activities described in those annexes.
Policy Support
*  Improvemen to road aistration and finance
*  Organiion  reform of MTCC
Projedt Preparation and Jmplementaton
* Preparation of future projects
* Technical assistance to MTCC, including financial project audits, support to road agency,
and advice on airport runway rehabilitation
* Technical assistance to Project Coordination Unit
*  Technical assistance to ENAI
*  Techical assistance to MLM
Capaity Bulding
*  Training cours  in Peru and visits to overseas seminars
*  Courses and mateials in road management
*  Taing in railway management and privatiaon.
2.17  Under the IDB-supported Hghwa  Repair and Malmenance Project, policy studies are
programmed to examine: Q) the policy, technology and fiacing of road maintenance and rehabilitation,
incudig the responaibilitIes of the central and regional governments; (i) ade load control and pavement



-19-
design standards; (iii) the need to strengthen highway administon and management; and (Iv) crila
to prioritize future highway investments. To avoid unnecessary duplicaton of effort. the tm   of
reference of the World Bank-supported studies will take Int  CCOunt the sOcpe of the IDB-support
studies, which are expected to commence during the first half of 1994.
D. Project Costs and Ilnandng
2.18   Project Cos. Tot1W  project costs are estmated at US$242 million, with a foreign excbnge
component of about US$98 million (41 percent). Project costs are shown on a year-by-year basis In
Annex 11 and are summarized in Table 3. Base costs are in June 1993 prices. Physical contlencles
were calculated at 15 percent of base costs. Price contngencies were calcted at an annal rate of 2.8
percent. This escalation rate is for local and international prices, which implies that the exchange rate
is periodically adjusted to reflect the difference tween internal inflation and the evohltion of world
prices. The cost estimate includes US$27.4 million (11 percent) for taxes and duties.
Table 3: PROJECT COTr SUMMARY
(S$M million)
Projet Coponet                            Loa               Taxes     Total     s Foeig
Roa Rhaiaion (td. Desip a_ d SuparX)       53.0     28.6     6.8       88A         32
Bridge Rehabtation   Den and sup.)         11.6     7.9      2.7      22.2         36
Road Mainenane (l Desip and Surii)         5.1      2.8      0.7       8.6         33
Equipmer for Road Laboitory                0.0      02       0.1       0.3         67
Trfic Safety Pmru                          0.3      0.5      02        1.0         50
Design of Futn Road Reabitai  Schmes       2.2      1.2      0.6       4.0         30
Railway Piatiat  and Rehabilittion         5.9      21.0     8.1       35.0        60
Runway RR_bilitation at Lima Airctt        8.9      13.8     2.0       24.7        56
Pilat P?ijec for Non-Motodrd Trpt In Lins  2.0      1.1      0.3        3.4        32
Technical Amaiatance and Tning             2.0      2.8      0.9        5.7        49
Projet Ma _agaen                           4.1       0        0        4.1         0
Sbt:tah Base Costs                    95.1      79.9     22A      19A
Phy      Caica ontingmenies                14.0     11.8     3.3       29.1
Price Coningencies                         7.5      6.3       1.7      15.5
GRAND TrAL                                116.6    98.0      27.4      me.O        41
2.19 The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated from preliminary designs and
unit prices used by MTCC. These are slightly higher than those received in recent bids for similar work
being carried out under an 1DB-supported project, as an increase of unit costs sems likely with thfe
acceleration of construction activity.



-20-
2.20  Project Tlnandn;. The Bank loan of US$150 milion, combined with parallel cofinancing by
KfW (see para 2.21 below), would finance all foreip exchange costs and 63 percent of local costs. It
would have a term of 20 years, Including five years of grace, at the Bankcs standard variable Interest rate.
'he financing plan, which is shown In Table 4, was confirMed during loan negotiations. The Bank loan
would be made to the Government, and most of it would be utilized through MTCC. The remainder of
the proceeds would be onlent to ENAFER (UJS$31.7 million or 21 percent) and to MLM (US$3 million
or 2 percent) on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. The signing of the respective subsidiary
loan agreements will be conditions of disbursement for the railway and NMT components of the project.
Table 4: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ nillion)
Pect Co-mposait                             Government B.k  K.W             Total
Road Rehabilitation (mcl. Design and Superv.)  18.1     52.2      38.0     108.3
Bridge Rehabilitation (mcl. Design and Superv.)  5.6    22.2                27.8
Road Mait ce (mcl. Design and Superv.)        2.1        8.7                10.8
Equipment for Road Laboratory                  0.1       0.3                 0.4
Traffic Safety Program                        0.2        1.0                 1.2
Design of Future Road Rehabilitation Schemes  0.7        4.1            _   4.8
Railway Privaization and Rehabilitation       10.5       31.7               42.2
Runway Rehabilitation at Lima Airport         8.6t      21.6                30.2
Pilot Project for Non-Motrized Trspt in Lhna  1.0        3.1                 4.1
Technical Assistance and Training             2.1t       5.0                 7.1
Project Magement                              5.0        0.1                 5.1
GRAND TOTAL                                  54.0       150.0     38.0    242.0
t   bJlsing US$  ;ll;n cO tbon from OPEC Fund for nternaional Development
$    Valu..added ti and Japanise technia assiane gant (USS1.l million).
2.21   Coflmancig. The fiacn plan incorporates bilateral contributions from the following sources:
(O OPEC Fund for Interational Development; Cii) a Japanese grant facility; and (iii) the German
Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau (KfW). The OPEC Fund in November 1993 approved a US$5 million
loan to support the runway rehbilitation at Lima Airport. A US$1.1 mfllion Japanese Policy and Human
Resources Development Grant was approved In Jume 1993 for the preparation of a second Transport
Rehabilitaton Project; this grant will be executed by the Government within the context of this project
KfW in September 1993 confirmed its intention to lend DM65 (about US$38 million) in support of the
rehabilitation of the Rioja-Rfo Nieva road link (parallel cofinancing).



-21-
E. ProjectImplementation
2.22   Ihe Ministry of Transport, Communications, Housing and Costruction (MTCC) will have
overall responsibility for project coordination, and will also be implementing agency for more than thre
quarters of project investments. There will be two additional implementing agencies: the raiway
company (ENAFER) for the prvation and rehabilitation of the railway, and the Municipality of
Metropolitan Lima (MLM) for the pilot NMT project. All project activities wil be coordinated by a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) establisjhed by and reporting to MTCC. The PCU is incor ed into
a "Special Ptojectw, which was established by Supreme Decree In February 1994, and will budget-wise
be treated as an MTCC program. The arrangements for project implementation were   nim  
ne       .
2.23 Functions of the PCU. The PCU will have two primary functions. dst, it will be responble
for overall project coordination, including preparation of progress reports, processing of disbursement
requests, and management of the Special Account (see below). Second, it will be the implementing am
of MTCC and be responsible for: (i) the processing of tender documents; (ii) the contracting of suppliers,
construction firms and consultants; (ii) monitoring of progress; (iv) supervision and payments to the
contra"tors; and (v) management of MTC's project account. This second function is similar to the role
currently performed by the Project Executing Unit which coordintes the IDB-supported Highway Repai
and Maintenance Project.
2.24   The PCU will include a Project Director (who would also act as advisor to the MWister of
Tasport), six engineers, an economist, a legal advisor, an institutional specialist, a financial analyst,
a treasurer, and support staff. It will also contract three railway specialists to be seconded to ENAFER
(see para 2.28 below). Tnis personnel will be engaged by MTCC at private-sector salaries and will be
paid from local counterpart funds. As needed, the PCU will be complemented by consultants engaged
under the project's technical assistance component. Ihe formal establishment of the PCU (UhldW de
Rehabilitacin de I*festrowr de  nasportes - UR?) and the appointment of its Director sasfactory
to the Bank were accomplished prior to lgan negotiations: its functions were confimed at AUgodWoM
The detailed definition of staffing requirements and of the general functioning of the PCU a  a condit
foresenard tgsmtion. which was satisfied in February 1994. The appointment of additional staff
satisfactory to the Bank are a condition of loan effectiveness.
2.25  Road Component. Except for certan emergency works, the PCU will implement this component
on behalf of MTCC. Road rehabilitation works will be let by internaional competitve bidding (ICB)
in about nine construction lots, ranging in size from US$6 million to US$10 million. In addition, the Rbo
Nieva-Corral Quemado section (US$40 million) will be let by ICB under the procedures of the paralel
cofinancing agency (KfW). Final designs and constuction supervision will be carried out by consulting
firms. Similarly, road mainnanc contracts and bridge construction will be let on a competitive basis
and supervised by consulting fims.
2.26  Throughout project implementaion, close coordination will be maintained between the PCU, th
General Directorate of Roads, the Environmental Unit and other MTCC officials, as well as military and
civilian agencies from the regions served by the project roads. Monthly coordination meeigs chaired
by the Mmister or Vice-Mister of Transport will be held to ensure smooth project execution. When
MTCC's road administration funtions have been restructured and strengthened, some responsibilities for
project implementation could be transferred to a new Roads Directorate; this possibility would be
considered at the Mid-Term Review of the project (see para 2.52 below).



-22-
2.27   Consultant will be contrcted by the PCU to develop a traffic safety strategy.  The
responsibilities for Implementing that strategy will be agreed at the Mid-Term Review, taking into account
the strengthened capacity of the Roads Directorate.
2.28 Ra1lway Priratizatlion and Rehabilitation. The privatization process is being defined by a three-
person committee (CEPRI-ENAFER) reporting to COPRI, the Government's Commission for the
Promotion of Private Investment. The railway company ENAFER, which will implement this component,
will receive policy directives from the privatizadon committee and from the Transport Minister who
belongs to COPRI's five-person governing body. For the physical implementation of this component,
the PCU will second to ENAFER a coordinator, in addWion to a mechanical and a track engineer, who
will manage the tendering process for equipment and materials and bi: responsible for the quality checks
of the goods delivered, for their installation, and for payment to the supplier. These three specialists witl
report to the President of ENAFER for management guidance. It Is expected that ENAFER will let about
23 goods contcs ranging up to US$5 million in value. Track rehabilitation and other civil worls under
the project will be tendered by local competitive bidding.
2.29 Runway Rehabilitation at Lima Airport. The civil works will be carried out by an
interationally experienced contractor, supervised by consultants with demonstrated experience in this
field. On behalf of MTCC as owner of the airport, the PCU wilH be responsible for the tendering process
and all contractu  aspects of this component. Ihe technical and operational control of the runway
rehabilitation, however, will lie with the airport authority CORPAC to ensure that the works are
harmonized with aircraft movements and other requirements of airport operations. The execution of this
high-visibility component requires particular care to avoid accidents and undue delays to flight operations.
Therefore, a coordinating committee chaired by the Minister or Vice-Minister of Transport will meet at
frequent intervals during the preparatory and exemion phase to ensure smooth implementation of this
component. The hiring of consultants for construction supervision and of an independent expert to advise
the Minister or Vice-Minister of Transport are prerequisites for signing a contract with construction firms
to rehabilitate the runway. These arrangements were confirmed at loan negotiations. The independent
expert and other technical assistance in the air transport sector will be contracted through ICAO, which
has already been responsible for the final des.gns of the rehabilitation scheme.
2.30 Pilot Project for Non-Motorized Transport In 1Lma. It was nflmed at loan ngQiations that
MLM will implement this component under the direction of a coordinator appointed for this purpose.
Civil works will be let by local competitive tender. A revolving fund to provide credits for the purchase
of low-cost bicycles will be established at the Lima Municipal Bank for Popular Credit (CMCPL).
Consultants and/or Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) will be engaged to monitor this component,
using quantified measures of progress.
2.31 Technical Assistance and Training. The PCU will implement most parts of this component on
behalf of MTCC. I will be responsible 4or drafing the terms of reference and other documents which
are subject to Bank review, for setting up steering committees that wfll be needed for the larger studies.
and for consultant supervision and payment. ENAFER will be responsible for any tedcnical assistance
and training related to the railways, and MLM for those related to transport in Lima.
2.32 Implementation Schedule and Monitoring Indicators. Due to the large number of components
as well as the scale, speed and mix of sectoral reforms going on in Peru, the implementation and
monitoring of the project Is quite complex. Indicators were defined for each project component to
monitor implementation performance and progress in achieving policy objectives; they are presented in
Annex 12. At loan negotiations, the components and dates contained in Tables 12-1 and 12-2 of that



-23-
annex were confirmed, and it was agreed that, during project implemetton, the implemenaon
indiscatos will be annually reviewed and updated in cosultadon with and satisfactory to the Bank.
2.33  Project Prepaon. Due to the severe financial and peonnel costrait under which the
Goverment currendy has to operate, the project has been prepaed prmary with the assistance of
bilateral donors. A Japanese grant funded a Project Coordinton and Preaation Unit (JCPP) from
Janury until December 1993. The UCPP consutas worked wihin MTCC and were responsible for
overall project formulation, the technical preparation of the road component, the environmental
asessment, and some advice on the railway componeatL Teo UCPP was dissolved following loan
negotiations, and its fucions were transferred to the PCU.
2.34 Also under the Japanese grant, a consulting firm was contracted to prepar detailed designs and
tender documents for the Tarapoto-Rioja and Tasma-La Merced road rehabilitation schemes. Engineers
conhtacted by ICAO prepared the design of the airport rway rehabilitation. German assistance
supported the definition of the traffic safet and road administration aspects of the project and the
appraisal of the airport runway component. Danish fimding provided assistance in appraising the bridge
rehabilitation program. Canadian assistance fimded the preparation of the raiway component, and Dutch
ssistance supported the preparation of the NMT pilot project.
F. 
2.35  Bank procurement guines will be followed for the proposed project, and the Banks standard
bidding documents will be used for bidding and prequalification. For the procurement of civi works and
goods under Local Competiive Bidding (LCB), standard bidding docuents wil be prepared and agreed
with the Bank. All prouement aspects were cnfed at Ipan egotiain. Civil works are esmated
to acount for about 65 percent of totl project costs, equipment and materials about 19 perceZ;
consulting services about 14 percent, and project management about 2 percent. Table 5 psents the
ested project cost breakdown by procurement method.
2.36  A recent review by the Bank of the proement procedures followed by both the public and
private sector in Peru show that these are generally acceptable. 'he procurement procedures followed
by the public sector are largely based upon competition, with only minor exceptions of direct contcting
which are compatible with Bank guidelines.
2.37   CMI Works. Contrac exceeding the equivalent of US$3.0 million each will be procured on
the basis of ICB. In additon to the Rbo Nieva-Corral Quemado road which will be rehabilitated with
funding from KfW, 12 contacts with an aggregate value of about US$93 mfllion are eeed to fall into
this categoy. Smaller contras estimated to cost US$3 million or less, with an aggregate value of about
US$23 million, will be awarded following LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank; foreign bidders will
be allowed to participate in the LCB bids. Small works and road maintenance, with contract values
below US$100,000 up to an aggrega total of US$2.0 milion, may be procured by local sbhpping based
on price quotations from at least three suppliers. Formal preqWlification of contractors will be carried
out for all conDtra estimated to cest over US$10 miflion, as well as for some smaller works agreed with
the Bank.
2.38  Equipment and Matrial. Contracts estimad t cost more th  US$200,000 equivalent each
will be procured on the basis of ICB. Ibis will Ilude the tenders for Bailey bridges and vaius tpes
of railway equipment. For specized equipmentwhere the number of suppliers is small, such as some
raiway and trffic safety equipment, limited international bidding (LIB) may be followed, in an aggegate



-24-
Tabl 5: PROCURIMENT ARRANGEMENTS
aUSS millon)
_"*d emt                       lcD       LCB       Olber     NAY.    1btaI
Cvi Waft
Road Wo*a                                  66.1       19.0       1.7*     40.1t    126.
(52.6     (15.2)     (1.)      (0.0)    (0.2)
Airpot Woib                                26.7                                     26.7
(18.7)                                  (18.7)
Ra4iway RhbIltai                                       1.6                           1.6
(1.3)                         (13)
Coasbuction of Dilewva and Aaocided Woia              2.6        0.3*                29
(1.8)     (0.2)               (2.0)
Eqol_pmmd MMerb
Mqulu   of non-Riway Euaw & Mdaidl          3.6       0.7        0.*                 4.8
(2.7)     (0.5)    (0.4)                (3-6)
Ac ion of Railway Sq ait &Maea             31.8       68         2.0                40.6
M3.8)     (5.1)      (1.5)              (30.4)
Bzoh undw SubA                                                   0.61                0.6
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ._       _ _ _    (0.6)               (06)
C    _alg Sevices ma TraJin                                      29.7w      3.1t     32.8
_______________________                  _                        O(24.1)    (0.0)    (24.1)
P&*d  _magem0 Q*                                                            5.0*      5.1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~ ~ ~~(0.1)  (0-0)  (0.1)
T(YEAL                                      1282       30.7      34S9      48.2    242.0
______.     ____r    ____._____._   (97.8)             (23.9)     (28.3)     (0.0)   (100)
* I--1--
t      Pidedby KiWami boil osi__ON
$  PsuoansldPw4enc.oidalhaUuf
I     Bkyopadamsby m,_ed  rbne  dmvd puts J_.5 n   8
amount not exceeding US$2.0 million  It is epected that goods costing a tota of US$38 million (3
percent of aU gods prored under thfe proect) wil fail into the ICB and L1B categories. Contract
estimated to cost US$200,000 or less each, up to an togreg tal of US$7.5 mfllion, will be procred
following LCB procedum  nationally adverised and saiSfctory to the Ban   Contact     equipme
and matels cosdng less tbaD  US$25,000 each may be procured ftrough local or internsional shoppg,
up to an agrega  total of US$500,000. Domestic m             competing under ICB will be eligble
for a 15 percent margin of prefeence in the comparison of bids, or the prevailing cutom dudes,
w1hichever is less.
2.39   Consultng Servies and Traing. This project element will be contracted in acrdan  with
World Bank guiddines for the use of consltants, dated August 1981. Thse services Include sudis,
technical assismce, trai , egineering designs, and construction supeviso     Except for the
employment of individua consulat acceabe to the Bankl, pwposas will generaly be requested from



-25-
thre, to six shordisted firms; in exceptional circumstances, direct contracting of consulting firms may be
considered. For example, it is emnisaged to contract GTZ for reviewing the results of the road policy
studies and for assisting in the implementation of their recommendations, thereby utilizing GrZ's
experience in this area (para 2.9). It is also planned to engage IMP for the final designs of the
bicycleways, because IP is the most experienced in the dess-n of trffic schemes in Lima and because
it has already prepared the preliminary designs. The total estimated expendiures of US$29.7 million for
technical assistamce fal into the following classes:
- Design, supervision and other Implementation support       US$ 25.9 million (87%)
- Policy support                                             US$ 1.7 million (6%)
- Institutional development                                  US$ 2.1 million (7%).
2.40 Procurement Review. All bidding packages of US$1.0 million or higher for civil works and all
bidding packages of US$200,000 or higher for equipment and materials will be subject to the Bank's prior
review of advertising, bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract award. The first LCB bidding
packages prepared by each implementing agency for civil works and for goods, irrespective of the
amount, will also be subject to the Bank's prior review. These reviews will cover more than 85 percent
of the estimated total costs for civil works, equipment nd materials. For consulting firms, services of
$100,000 or higher and all single-source assignments will be subject to the prior review in accordance
with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines; for individual consultants, services of $50,000 or higher are
subject to prior review. For consulting firms' contracts under US$100,000, up to an aggregate total of
US$500,000, and for individual consultants' contracts under US$50,000, only the terms of reference wi)l
be subject to the Bank's prior review. Other procurement action wIll be subject to selective ex-post
review; the PCU will retain documentation for these contracts for periodic examination by Bank staff.
2.41  Implementing Agendes. As described in Section E of this Chapter, the PCU will be responsible
for most procurement.  Its proposed composition includes a legal adviser and several engineers
experienced in international and local tendering and in the selection of consultants. The railway
component will be implemented by ENAFER with the assistance of three specialists seconded from the
PCU and short-term experts engaged with project finds as necessay. When the PCU is fully staffed,
both MTCC and ENAFER will have adequate capacity to carry out procurement effectively. With re,&-d
to the non-motorized transport component, the civil works envisaged are relatively small and well within
MLM's recent procurement experience.
2.42   Advance Procurement Action and Retroactive  ncing. Special emphasis was placed during
project preparation to advance key procurement steps, with the objective of initiadng road works quicldy
after loan approval. Accordingly, the international prequalification notice for road contractors was
published in September 1993. A similar prequalification notice for airport runway contractors and the
General Procurement Notice were published in December 1993. With funding from a Japanese grant,
consultants have produced final designs and tender documents for two road rehabilitation schemes. Under
the terms of a Project Preparation Facility signed in September 1993, consulting firms have been
contracted for the design of three additional road rehabilitation schemes. It is also planned to select
supervision consultants for road and airport rehabilitation works shordy after loan approval. During loan
ngotainsg, retro-active financing up to US$700,000 was agreed for initial railway works and up to
US$500,000 for technical assistance to project preparation. As part of the latter item, final design is
about to start on the bicycleways of the NMT component.



-26-
G. Disbursements, Accounting and Audits
2.43   Disbursements. lbe proposed loan is expected to be flly disbursed by June 30, 1999, and the
closing date would be December 31, 1999. The disbursement schedule is shown in Table 6 and, in
greater detail, in Annex 13. It corresponds to the standard disbursment profile for Bank projecs in
Peru.
Table 6: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENrS
(US$ million)
_____ ____ ____ 1 994   199 5   199       199      199        199    j
Annua             15.0    30.0      48.0     36.0      18.0       3.0
Cumuaive          15.0    45,0      93.0    129.0    147.0       150.0
2.44 Payments from loan proceeds will be administered by the PCU from a special account (see pars
2.46 below). Disbursement requests in respect of chvil wodrs contracts over US$1.0 million, goods
contracts over US$200,000, consulting contracts over US$100,000, and all single-source consulting
contracts will be fully documented. In all other cases, disements will be made aginst samets of
expenditure (SOB). Documentaion supporting the SOEs will be retaine4. by the implemeing agencies
and made available for eamination by Bank staff during review missions.
2.45   Disb ts of up to US$1.5 million are expected prior to loan effectiveness ftrough a Project
Preparation Facility (PF) signed in September 1993. Table 7 shows the basis of loan disbursements
after loan effectiveness. Ihe first item in that table includes civil works expenditrs on: Q) rehabilitation
of national roads; CiH) replacment of Bailey bridges with pemanent structures; (Iii) construction of other
bridges; and Qiv) works under the traffic safety and pilot road maiteance programs. Consulting
Services and Training includes expenditures for flnal designs, construction suevision, studies, advisory
services, course fees and other training-related costs. Ihe PPF, which will be used almost exclusively
for design consultants and other forms of technical aistance, has a 100 percent disburment rate.
Submission of a timed action plan for the restructuring and prvaization of ENAPER, acceptable to the
Bank, is a conditin of disbursemeinh for the railway component. The isuan of operating instuctions
by CMCPL, acweptable to the Bank, is a cndition of disbursemients for bicycles under subloans.
2.46   Specal Acomunt. A Special Account will be opened and maintained in US Dollars, in a
commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. Ihe authorized alocation, sufficient for about four
months' of financeable expenditures, will be US$5 million. The Bank will repleni the Special Account
upon receipt of disbursement requests from the Borrower. Ihe PCU will control the use of the Special
Account and be responsible for preparing the disbursement requests on behalf of the Borrower. These
requests should be submitted every month, or when the specal account has been drawn down to 67
percent of its Inidal deposit, whichever comes first The establishment and operating aragements for
the Specia Account were ageed at loan negotiations.



-27-
Table 7: LOAN DISBURSEMENS BY CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Cateor                      Amount            Dlsbursamnet Rate
Civil Words for Road Rdabilta                  63.0     80% of xpeis
Civil Work for Aiport Reabilit                 17.0    70% of e     _pedu
Civi Work for Raiwayp Rsabihtin                         80% of _penitue
Constucto of BicycleWs, ad Asoiaed Works        1.7    70% of exenditus
Acquison of Non-Railway Equipt and Matal        3.1    100% of forign expeue (net of tas)
75% of local ependir
Acqisdon of Railway   p  ad  Materiab          29.0    100% of foreign vpde (nat of ta)
._______________________________               75% of l     _o  edue
Biccle unde Sublos                              0.6    100% of eped_r
Coutig Serie and Tring                         21.0    100% of expediur _ At Of tu
PPF                                             1.5
Unalloeated                                    12.0
TO,TAL           ,       , l,150.0., 
2.47   After a long lapse of Bank investment lending to Peru, the concept of Specia Accouns Is being
reintroduced in this project. It is thus possible that administave problems could delay the start-up of
disbursements. A special account managed by MTCC is to be set up under the PPF mentioned above.
Depending on the initial experience with thdt account, the Bank will provide technical assistance to
overcome possible problems with special accounts and disbursement procedures in general.
2.48   Lcal Currency Accoumts. in addition to the Special Account in US Dollars, each implementng
agency will establish separate local currency accounts for its particular components. It  wa dat!n
flatiQons that the Goverment will deposit counterpart funds into the MTCC and ENAFER accounts
at the beginning of each month to cover all payments anticipated for that month. All project accounts
will be managed in accordance with generally accepted Inteatonal accounting standards.  The
establishment of local currency accounts for the three implementing agencies is a condition of Ia
effetivness.
2.49   Audits. At loan negotations. it was agreed that annual audits of project expenditures will be
carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordae  with terms of reference to
be ap   ed by the Bank. Audit reports wil be furnished to the Bank within six months after the close
of the Government's fiscal year.
H. Reporting, Monitoring and Supervision
2.50 Reports. The PCU will prepare quarterly progress reports for all components of the project,
including those implmented by ENAFER and MLM. These will be sent to the Bank within one month
after the end of each quarter and will describe (a) progress achived against agreed implementation



-28-
indicators and disbursement schedules, (b) updated implementation and disbursement schedules for the
remainder of the project, (c) status of compliance with the legal covenants contained in the Loan and
Project Agreements, and (d) detailed work progrms and action plans for the coming two quarters. Ihe
main purpose of these reports is to provide timely and updated information on project implementaton,
highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending actions and commentng on progress In exeg
previous recommendations. The Borrower will also submit to the Bank a Project Completion Report
within six months from the loan closing date. Reporting requirements and key monitoring indicators on
physical progress and financial and operational performance (Annex 12) weragre at loan Notats.
2.51 Annual Reviews. At yearly intervals, starting not later than six monfts after loan apprval, the
Bank and the Government will conduct a formal joint review of the progress made in reaching the project
objectives and in implementing project components. In the case of unaisfactory progress, the
Government will prepare remedial action plans within one month of the review. The annual reviews wil
provide an opportnity to assess (i) progress in physical project implementation, (*d) the performance of
each implementing agency and the PCU, (Iii) the achievements and soundness of judgmeat in fields of
procurement and disbursement, (iv) progress achieved in the restructuring and privatization of the
railways and airport authority, and (v) progress in the restucturing and strengthening of road
maintenance, administration and finance. The project implementation schedule and monitoring indicators
(see para. 2.32) will be updated during the course of the annual review. Cofin     agencies will be
invied to participate in the annual reviews.
2.52   Md-Term Review. The third annual review will constitute a Mid-Term Rview and provide an
opporunity for a more comprehensive assessment of project achievements to date, and of the prospects
for successful project completion. During that review, proposals for restructuring or reorienting the
project will be considered, taldng accoumt of all relevant sector and project issues. Ihe timing and
objectives of the annual and mid-term reviews were confirmed at loan negotiations.
2.53 Project Supervision. The frequency of Bank missions will be guided by the progress and special
requirements of project implementation. After a long hiatus, this is the first Bank project suppordng
Peru's transport sector, which calls for more intensive review and assisance than is usualy the case.
As shown in Annex 12, Bank missions are expected to supervise the project about three times per year
until the Mid-Term Review, and two times per year thereafter. It is estimated that about 140 staff-weeks
will be required for project supervision for the duration of the project, wi the average declining from
40 staff-weeks in the frst year to 10 staff-weeks in the fifh and 5 staff-weeks in the sixth year (plus an
additional effort to prepare the Project Completion Report).
I. Tiandal Analysis
ENAPER
2.54 The railway's financial position has deteriorated in recent years due to a loss in revenues without
a corresponding decrease in costs. Begnning in 1987, ENAFER began to lose traffic for a number of
reasons including: low economic acivity, increased competition from roads in certain sectors, poor
marketing of railway services, deteriorating political siation and security concerns, and unavaiility
of traction power and wagons. Consequenldy, freight traffic decreased by 46 percent between 1987 and
1992, as shown in Table 8. While this decline in freight traffic was spread nearly equaly among the
regional lines, FCC fiances were most severely affected as fight traffic constitutes the bulk of its
operations. In addition, the traffic decline was accompanied by large cuts in freight tariffs. Between
1990 and 1992, real tariffs decreased by 61 percent for FCC and 28 percent for FCS.



-29-
2.55  Ihe decline t paseger traffic W  Ove more proounced. From ts peak volume in 1989, the
taffic decrseod by 66 pecet to 222 mlion panerkn     1992 for ENAFER as a whole. The
decr    was largest br FCS whe  the decln wa naly 69 pcent; for FCSO (
passenger tafflc reduct to haf to  1989 volm. In 1991, FCC suspended Its pssen    sorvices
be n Caligo and Huncayo, with the excepti  of some ecson trains on week-ends. As a rest,
pasengS taffic dopped by 60 pecet  ad now blon mostly to the Husacyo-luncavelica line
Table &  TINDS IN RAILWAY TIAM1IC, 198719I2
1967    1966    18        1990    1991      1992
Freght (mWkn teA4bn)
FCC                            292      219      199     189      163       152
FCS                            420      378     302      302      270       232
ENAFER                         722      606     S07      498      440       389
F_-                    - (-
FCS                            359      344     403      277      181       126
FCSO                           128      117      124      98       72        61
ENAFER                         576      S81     659      469      320       222
2.56  ENAFEIrs financial stuctr does not allow for costs to be reduced In acCordace wih decln
in its opert. During the 1990-1992 perod, opating revenues dereaed by 51 perent while ot
deacr   in the oprt   ees was aly 22 perent   m idity in the operatioa expes was
manldy the result of labor costs, which araged about 61 peret of dhe ta operating expenses durn
s period. For FCC in 1991-1992 and FCSO in 1991, operating reveus were not ee enough to
cover thek respective labor cos. Opeating rtos durng 1992 wero 183 percent, 130 pecent, and 133
pecn for FCC, FCS, ad FCSO resecdvely.
2.57  The operatg loss       financed by reducn          expenditur  and by am4
liabilities - by nt servicig the raiw' debt and by defr  the paymes for personnel-relted
contrutions to the   soc se ty agency, pension and heath paymens, and other legally mandaed
paWmen. This furhe dated ENAFEs financia poston, a delays in the serice of the
o     _uKft liabilites rosted in heavy finc  pnides   inst h company by its credio. As a
slt, 1992  ooutlas excee   operating ee    and total exes wen neiy dt   tm
total nues. By the end of 1992, debt ouhts     OqUalOed US$132 million
2.58  Sine ENAFEtR does not undrtae indndet finsnca adit, It   difficult to accuraely
alaste its net worth and oeqt. ENAFER, lie a other public ap     , has peidially realued
its assets to taB Into account the effec  of herinhlatlon   has nareased ts reported euty,
acording to one estmat by nery USS300 mUili  It  a aMd at loan neotdato  that ENAFER
wi nstitute proper accounting practe s and, sta    wid 1994, wi1 submit anal financial audi of
Its operations by  _ndedet adior acceptable to te Bank whhin si month aer the end of the yea.
Submision of the auditos  port and audited financial  _er 1993 IIl be a cdidon
I     mm for e railway 



-30-
2.59   As discued t Annex 6 financial projections are predicated on a state  toward f1iaa
viability that includes iree man components:
*     minImIng working expenses, prinipally by contining the   rent s    reducdon
program -toreduce thelabor for   by over 50 percent, from 4,068 employees In
Dember 1993 to 1,8S by end-1994;
*     eliminating all non-profbtable services or, where considered necesary tD mainain such
services due to social reasons, nsurig dst ENAFER so longer be resposible for
operaing deficits; and
*     undertaig the emegncy hwiesent program to keep the railways operaing until their
privatization.
2.60 'he financial projections assume that: 0) consistent with Its practice of undertaking government-
guaranted ficial liabilties of public ente   targeted ft privation, the Governme will assume
al of the railwap debt (external, internal, final penaties, accrued interest, etc.) - ENAPER wfll
therere not be expected to make any debt service payme    on its existing liabilities; (H) the
Governent wil provide ENAFER with sufficient fuids to implement its staff reduction program; CiO)
the Govermen wi help ENAFER design and implement its privatzaion program; (iv) unvofitable
services witl be closed or, altenatively, the Government wil provide explicit foding to mainain them
in operation; (v) the ailways' opeations will be restructred int eost centers; and (vi) the prposed
emergencye investmet program wfll be instituted in a tmely manner.
2.61   Under the above 5mp      , the financial position of ENAFER is expected to Improve starting
in 1994. While operatig revenue is forecast to remain conot  during the 1994-2000 period, savings
from cos contaiment ar expected to produce improved fieanial results, as shown in Table 9.
Profibility of FCC is excted to remain margil unti FCC can negotiat a more favorable conact
wit Its main client Ceatomin. At the current tariff level, ises in freight hmled on the central line
wud be rquired to substnially improve FCC's financl health as fixed cost consftiute a high portion
of FCC's opeations.
Table 9: FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR RAILWAYS
194      1995     196       im        1998     1999      200
FCC
Wodking Ratio(%)      132       110       96       103      103       105      108
operatg Ratio(%)      159       136      110       117      117       119      122
FCS
Wolug Ratio(%)        114       89        81        86       87        88       90
Operatn  Rstio(%)     136       102      101       106      107       108      111
FCSO
Wokng Ralo(S)          84       69        69        74       75        77       79
Operting lRtio(%)     112       86        96       101      103       104      107



-31-
2.62   Sensthvity Analysi. Ite financial forecast would most likely be afected by chages in
operaing revenue due to changes in the passenger and freight tariff structure and the respecdve traffic
volumes, and/or changes in operating expenses due to changes in staff costs. Delay In the payment of
end-of-sevice benefits to staff would slow down the staff reduction progm and thus affect the financial
forecast. Likewise, reduction in traffic volume would adversely affect the projected opeating resuts.
This would be especially true of FCC which is projected to operate with high operating ratios while
maintaining constant traffic near 992 volumes. On the other hand, a 20 percent increase in freight
traffic (to the 1990 level) in 1995 for FCC would reduce the working ratio to 99 percent.
CORPAC
2.63 While CORPAC has been operating at significant losses, its operating results for 1993 are
epected to show a marked improvement as a result of the recent sale of Aeroperd. The present policy
of CORPAC is to work towards operational efficiency so that it may achieve financial independence and
profitability.
2.64 CORPAC has already started implementing strict financial management controls. In the past two
years, it (1) reached agreement with the Govement to clear Aeroperd's payments; Ii) reduced its labor
force by about a third, which has positively affected its income statement; and (ii) began a progam of
ptivatizing some of its airport services, especially those which have recenty shown operating losses.
These steps will positively affect CORPAC's finances by strengthening its cash flow, reducing opeang
expenses, and improving its income stream.
MLM
2.65  The municipality's 1992 expendt   exceeded revemnes, resulting in a deicit of US$9.7 milion
which was financed by a reduction in working capital. The deficit was mainly caused by a declne in
revenues: 15 percent decline in the municipality income and 4 percent decline in the govermen
tansfers. As a result, operational expenses climbed to 96 percent of the revenues, compared to 90
percent in 1991. 'T finance these deficits, the municipality has increasingly made use of short-term debt
(an overdraft). While the debt ratio of 15 percent in 12 is considered low, the decline in net
worldng capital has reduced MLMWs capacity to meet short-term liabilities. The overall budgets of MLM
amunted to the equivalent of US$291 million in 1992, and US$200 million in 1993. Ihe costs of the
NMT pilot project (US$4 million) are very small in comparison. It is expected that MLM will easily be
able to service the proposed US$3 million loan for ihat component and provide the necessary counterpat
funds. On September 13,1993, MLM advised the Bank that it was budgeting US$862,000 in counterpart
fimds for 1994, more than enough for the first year of imple on of the NMT component.
J. Eoonomic Justification
P?ujed Benef,is
2.66  The main benefits of the project will be a restoration of the currendy deteriorated transport
infrastructure leading to a transport system that will permit a higher level of economic activity In the
country. The project will remove physical constaints in transport and reduce transport costs for goods
and passengers. It wfll stimulate exports (mineal, mancui, and agriculturd products), farm
production and marketing, and the mobility of people. These benefits will bolster the ongoilg



-32-
sabibaton program and consolidate the gins in struca reforms.  rugh speciflc project
component aimed at incring the pudcipation of the pdv  sctor as we  as reliance on mfket
meanms, the project will also imp       anspoct sector manageme, maily by prmowt   a
responsive instiional stuctre fnctioning on patneshp betwen   the public and private sectrs.
2.67  Calculations of tuna eonmmic rt of retu  ar based on quantfiabls benefits ncuding cost
and tm sNdgs to oad user, saving In r mfuturecosts on roads and the aiport in ima, and
improved reliability and efficiency of transport systems. In addiWon, the project wiI provide substan
beneft which ar difficult to quanfy, but which direcy contrIbute to conumer wefare and povert
alleviation. Some of these beneft are discussed below.
2.68   Ihe road component of the proect conems the rehbilitation and upgding of unk roads that
link farming areas o maket.  his compoent will pardtdarly assist the poor in reducing ranwport cost
which are now extremely high due to poor surface conditions and periodic road closures dug the rainy
season. The impact of higher pasability and more reliable and cheap trsport will directy contbute
to improved farm productivity. Given the recent declines in agricultural prductivity and the imortce
of this sector to the Pervian economy, such impacts are sigaificlnt. The road mainta   pilot proJect
wil also provide a model for long-term maienanco management, while the various tical asstac
component on road financing, adni    , safety, and evironmental management will mpo the
cpacitY to maintain the road network, reduce the high ra of road accidents and fatalites, and fster an
environmentlly responsible road sector. A pilot project prmoting non-motorzed tnsport is direcly
aimed at tfin the fasibility of cheaper modes of transport for the poor, who are now paying high
prcentges of their income on urban bus fares and who have low mobility. Ihe railway prhvztion
component will provide a replicable method of satisfying the dual objectives of maintaining a functioning
transport syem while rtuctring It for privatizaton. Furthemore, the proje will assiti creatg
employment dircdy, especially tough the toad works, ad indirctly tough the expansion of fming
and other economic activites such as mioing and m
Economc R&Vy
2.69  The project yields hig economic reuns as preted In de  iln Annex 14. lhe overl intemal
economic ra  of reun (IERR) on the road   abilitation, road maitnnce, railway, and airport
componen   is about 27 percent.
2.70  Road Relablitatlon Progm. The road rehabilitation program co    the rehabilitation
of six natonal road sections, tolling 725 km in length. It is estmated to yield an overall ERR of about
27 percent based on traffic and road condition data   the sdected road secto. The six sectons
Include: ) Tl-La Merced; (ii) La Merced-Satpo; OM Huinuco-lgo Mark (Iv) Taapoto-Rioja;
(v) Rioja-Rio Nieva; and (vi) Rio Nieva-Corral Quemado. For purposes of conductng the economic
andysis, road links (v) and (vi) were comb.   ; inO a link from Corr  Quemado to Rioja. Ie main
quantfied benefits are: (i) the veicl ope g costsaved due to road rehabiitaton; (i) time saing
for passengers; and (iii) savig in rouine mai a    following rehabilitation. The cost benefit analysis
is based on the World Bank's Highway Deig aud Ma _neac Model (HDM M). All road secdo
Ibtedrates of retun greater ta 20 percent, as swn In Table 10. These high rateflecthe poor
condition of existing roads and the bigh costs of operating veles on such roads.
2.71  Plot Road Ma_intenace Program. Becae of the poor history of road          in Peru
and the eroded capacity to manage _nc projects wihin MICC, a pIlot m_ program is
icluded in the project I wilg be conducted on about 620 kam of nationa roads, to serve as model for



-33-
Table 10: ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF ROAD REIABIUTATION SCHEMES
Road                 Lth         Ftsinated Co      MR           OmNR     l
(Oin*     (% inU) I          (%     l
Thina-LA Mgroed                 72            7.1           36.9         38.7
La M0t10d4t-po                  122           14.8          30.9         33.5
Hu&=o-Tho Marfa                120            5.8           2S.0         28.9
TampooRioia                    135            10.9          25.S         30.8
Coan QumIdo-RiQia              276           49.8           17.1         21.6
Total                          72.           88.4           22.6         26.6
NOrTR: PYB = Pit Yew Bonefit Rat at 12%  - IERR = }raan Bonoic PAts of Retrm.
*    Ba.s coast, including dea8n and cotutnxtion apeMisa.
ture Maintenance of Peruvian roads. Ite rate of return for this program is veay high (IERR of 91
prcent), refletg the poor execution of road maintece that is the legacy of the 1980s.
2.72   Bridge Rehabiltatlon Prgm m. The project supports the replacement of 30 bridges, all located
on crucial nlnks of the national road network. These bridges are currently in poor condition. The main
benefs from tis component relate to the removal of weight restrictions on the bridges, resulting in lower
opeatg costs for trucking and the savings in future maintenance and repair costs. The esdmated IERR
for this component is 103 percent.
2.73   Airport Component. Rehabilitating the runway of  imaes intenaional airport is expected to
have direct and indirect benefits. Direct benefits include: (a) net income to the Government from taxes
on expenditures by foreign turists while in Peru; (b) benefits to CORPAC from savings in life cycle
maintenanc mcosts following the rehabilitation; (c) net income to CORPAC from landing and takeoff
charges for aircrat, and aiport use chages for passengers; (d) benefits due to time and cost savings
accruing to passengers, cargo, and airline companies; and (e) incesed comfort, convenience, and above
all safety to the airport users. Additionally, there are indirect benefits such as employment and multiplier
effts on the economy. The economic analysis quantifying benefits of types (a) and (c) above yielded
rates of return of 25 percent and 18 percent respectively.
2.74   Railway Pvatizaton and Rehabiltatlon. A comparative analysis of rail and road transport
in Peru indicated that ralways, if efficiendy operated, are an economic form of transport in three major
corridors. To remain competitive, however, they will have to be completely restructured and eventually
privAized. The project thus has te objective of restructuring ENAFER along its main cost centers with
subsequent privatization. Annex 6 provides a detailed evaluation of the three cost centers: FCC, FCS,
and FCSO. The first major step of the planned restructurng effbrts under the project is a staff reduction
plan for the three entites. This plan is aimed at improving the operatig and financial efficiency of the
ralways. Ihe second step of the restucturing efforts includes performing emergency rehilitation
works. These works have been identified independently for each railway entiy, and are necessary to
maintain the railway in operation during the restructring process. The benefits from the emergency
works derive from three main sources: iO operating efficiency gains from emergency repairs on ways and
strucures - track rehabilitation and repair, and extension of V atchbacks; (ii) gains from improved



-34-
reMiabiliry of the rolling stock, due to the repair of locomotives and wagons and to better workshop
maintenance; and (Iii) lmp ow operating procedures as well as reductions in labor requirements at
railway stations due to improved communications.  Ihe estimated overl iERR for the railway
rehabilitation works is 15 percent.
2.75 Sensitivity Analysis was performed mainly for the road component, since it represents almost
two thirds of total project costs. Sensitivity tests how that even if costs were 20 percnt higher, and
benefits 20 percent lower, the overall IERR for the road rehabilitation program would still be greater than
20 percent. For the railway component (17 percent of project costs), It was assumed that 1992 traffic
- which was particularly low in that year - would be maintained during the analysis period, and that
the railways would not recover lost market share even after improving their reliability. This was a
conservative assumption, and there is preliminary evidence that the traffic levels are now increasing.
Given the high rates of return obtained, a scenario with decreasing traffic and market share was not
evaluated. Moreover, the project directly supports a restructuring effort that will guarntee a dynamic
and improved management of the railways which has the potential to restore customer confidence and thus
maintain market share. Early indications show that the raiways have been able to atact new markets
following preliminary restructuring efforts.
K. Environmental Aspects
2.76   All pbysical improvements under the project concern the rehbilitation of existing facilities,
without construction planned along new alignments. The project would thus not cause direct impacts on
the enviromnent, other than those linked to the construction process itself, and these are addressed in a
new manual for contrctors (see para 2.79 below). As described in Annex 15, however, several of the
road improvement schemes are in the rain forest (Selva) region and thus an extensive Environmental
Assessment (EA) was conducted as part of project preparation.
2.77  Preliminary results of the EA confm that, if properly managed, the proposed road improvemes
are unlikely to harm the ecological and social environment. However, the Government's capacity to
address environmental issues related to road and other transport projects is weak. Since the overall
responsibility to address environmental issues in the transport sector rests with MTCC, it is important
to strengthen MTCC so it can give the proper attention to environmental concerns, in this as well as
fuAture transport projects.
2.78   No government unit existed until recendy to carry out the environmental responsibilities related
to transport. In October 1993, MTCC established a transport-environmental office in its General
Directorate of the Environment, which until then was responsible only for urban matters. The functions
of the new office include: (i) advising the Minister on environmental concerns in the transport sector; (ii)
establishing environmental policies and procedures for transport projects; (iii) incorporatingenvironmental
objectives lnto feasibility and design studies; (lv) ensuring compliance with the Environmental Mamnu
for Road Desigoers and Contractors discussed below; (v) generaly ensuring that all bidding documents
and contracts contain the appropriate envionmental conditions; and (vi) monitoring emnronmental fictors
and maintaining a data base. The functions and adequate staffing of the transport-enviromental office
in MICC were cotffnrmed at g1 iin .



-35-
2.79   The EA team also prepared an Environenal MwalforRoadDesigners and Comractors, which
is satisfactory to the Bank. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the provisions of this mamnal wiln
be observed in the bidding and contract documents of road and bridge schemes let under the project.
Topics included in that manual are:
*     Applicable environmenal and natural resource legislation that contractors have to comply
with during construction and maintenance activities;
*     explicit prohibitions and envionmental behavior guidelines for work crews, especially
in sensitive areas;
*     proper selection and management of quarries, borrow pits, gravel extraction along rivers,
and other sources of construction material, and eventual rehabilitation of affected areas
through soil replacement and revegetation;
*     selection of camp sites, management of camp wastes, and guidelines for camp
dismantling and abandonment;
-     proper disposal of excavated earth and spoil material to avoid contaminating streams and
other unnecessary damage; and
*     pr-Ter disposal of wastes from construction machinery and equipment (burned oils, parts,
sem".-solid wastes).
2.80  With regard to the railway, the main environmental concerns are related to wastewater collection,
teatment and disposal, and solid waste disposa in worlshops and maintenamce units. Some of the older
workshops will be closed as part of the railway restructuring, while others would be modernized by the
new owners after railway privatization. The rehabilitation of existing railway tracks and locomotives
would not have an enviromental effect, as this acdvity mainly concerns the replacement of existing track
with no excavation or works that will change the stability of surrounding slopes.
2.81 Ihe NMT pilot project to increase bicycle use will have a positive impact on the urban
envronment by: (i) helping to limit the steady increase of air pollution caused by motor vehicles; (ii)
reducing vehicle-generated noise; and (iii) easing traffic congestion by reducing the growth of motor
vehicles on the road and by shifting cyclists to separate paths.
L. Project Risks and Safeguards
2.82   The project hces the following risks: (i) inadequate provision of counterpart funds for project
implementation; (ii) procurement problems and ineffective project management, especially arising from
a lack of institutional capacity of the implementing agencies; (iii) insufficient absorptive capacity of the
domestic construction industry; and (iv) the possibility of armed terrorism against the contractors during
the execution of the works.
2.83   To minimize these risks, the lessons leamed in previous transport projects and the initia
experiences acquired in the ongoing IDB-supported highway project have been considered in project
desig  In pardcular, the project woud provide for: (i anual reviews of the project expenditure
programs at the time of budget preparation, and advance deposit of counterpart fuinds into project



-36-
account, similar to the procedures successfully being employed In the ongoing 1DB-project; (0) creation
of the PCU with adequate technical assistance to assure effecdve project monitong and contl, and
establ ism  of monitoring indicators which will be the basis for project supevision and formal annual
project reviews; (di) minimizing the LCB contracts to only 14 percent of the total project cost; and (v)
provision of army protection that may be necessary for project execution. Morewver, significant up-ft
action has been taken to establish an effective Project Coodination Unit.
2.84 Road Component. As detailed in Annex 4, at least USSSO million per year are required to
properly maintain the network of national roads, in addition to those being covered under this and the
IDB-supported projects. Tbe long-term prject objectives could not be sustaine  unless sufficilt
resources are being provided for maintainng al national roads. To reduce this risk, government
assurances were obtained that minimum budget allocations for road maintenance be agreed annually with
the Bank for the duration of the project. Moreover, the Government will prepare by the end of 1994 an
Action Plan to reform highway admiistation and finance; this plan will be discussed with the Bank
during the Second Annual Project Review.
2.85   Railway Component. The proposed restrutring and privatization of ENAFER will require far-
reaching and difficult decisions by Government, the rigorous definition and implementation of an Action
Plan by ENAFER and, not least, private sector interest to acquire all or parts of the railways' operatio.
In view of these risks, several up-front actions regarding railway reforms were agreed as a condition of
disbursements for this component. Despite this, the hill success of the railway component is doubtful,
and Its deletion from the project was seriously considered. However, a deliberate decision was taken to
support the reform of ENAFER under the project to help in accelerating the difficult privaiaton
process. It was also agreed that, even if this component were to be delayed or fail, the remainder of the
project (83% of esdmated costs) could still be considered successful.
2.86 Airport Runway Rehabilitation. The principal concerns regarding the airport component are
possible mishaps or inordinate delays in the high-visibility runway rehabilitation, which for about six
months will require closure, during night-time hours, of Peru's main gateway. To guard agaist these
risks, intationally experienced supervision consultants and an independent adviser (contracted in
collaboration with ICAO) will be engaged before the signing of a contract with the constuction firm,
which also is to be selected with particular care.



-37-
m. AGREEMENTS REACID AND RECOMMD ON
3.1   The Wow    actions wer tak  pior to loan negotiations:
(a)    The Govenme  confirmed hat ) ountpart funding will be made available for this
project (para 2.48), 01) sufficient resources will be provided for routie mainea   of
the entire national road network (pas 2.10), and (iib) the policy will be continued of
taxing road user at least the amount spen on road maintena    (para 1.20).
(b)    MC    fnally established the Project Coordination Unit (pas 2.24).
(c)    MTCC established a unit responsible for eironmental aspecs of the transprt seor
(para 2.78).
(d)    MltC supported the defintion of a privadzation stra  for ENAFER (par 2.13).
3.2   During loan negotiations, agreement was reacted on the following:
A. Project Man et:
(a)    The arrangements for project mlementaton s described in para 2.22.
(b)    The functions of the Poject Coornatng Uni (para 2.24).
(c)    Staffing to ens  adequae imple tion of ralway and NMT components (aras 2.28
and 2.30).
(d)   The functions and dequate staffing of the transport-environmental office in MTC (para
2.78).
(e)    The pocurement aragements as descRe in paas 2.35 - 2.42.
(M)    Obsra    of th E     o        Maal for Road Designers and Contractors will be
stplated In all bidding and conta documents let under the road component of the
project (para 2.79).
(g)    Key incat  and tagets for monitorig project performance and achievement of project
objectives (pwara 2.32 and 2.50).
(h)    MTCC will send the Bank quarterly progress reports within one month from the end of
each quarter (par 2.50).
(I)    MTCC wil send the Bank a project completion report not later      six months after te
dosing date of the loan (para 2.50).
0I)    ADnnal reviews will be carred out to assess progress; representatives of cofinncing
agencie will be invited to paripat in the anmual reviews (a 2.51).



-38-
(k)    A midtem project review will be carfied out no later tha  30 months after loan
approval, Involving the Bank and the relevant Govemment and cofiancing agencies, to:
() assess the overall progress made in project implementation with respect to the
monitoring indicao  mentioned above; and 00 consider proposals for restructuring or
reorienting tie project, responding to relevant sector and project issues and taking
account of aeed action plans for policy and/or institutional reforms (para 2.52).
D. Finandal and Other  equirem ts:
O)    The project financing plan as described in para 2.20 and Table 4.
(m) The establishment and operating arrangements of a separate Special Account (para 2.46).
(n)    Separate project accounts for local counterpart fimds will be established for MTCC,
ENAFER and MLM (par 2.48).
(o)    By June 30 of each year, MTCC will submit to the Bank the auditor's report and audited
financial statements of the Special Account, Project Account and SOEs for the preceding
calendar year, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para 2.49).
(p)    For those works under the bridge replacement subcomnponent which are estimated to cost
more than US$500,000, MTCC will provide calculations to show that the IERR is over
20% (para 2.8).
(q) Ihe terms of reference for the general bridge study (para 2.8).
(r)    MTCC will inform the Bank on the progress of, and issues considered by its analyses of
road finance and admiaon and submit its action plan by December 31, 1994 (para
2.9).
(s)    An anmnal allocation of not less than US$50 million equivalent, to be agreed by October
31 each year, will be made in the budget for the maintenance of national roads other than
those covered directly under the project; these funds will be released in a timely manner
(pa 2.10 and Annex 4). In addition, the Government confirmed the assurance given
prior to loan negotiations that k will contnue its policy of levying road user charges in
excess of road maintenace expendires (para 1.20).
(t)    ENAFER will institute proper accounting practices and, starting with fiscal year 1994,
submit the auditor's report and audited fiacial statements of its operations for each
year, within 6 months from the end of that year, audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (pam 2.58).
(u)    Establishment of a coordination committee in MTCC, hiring of consultants for
construction supervision, and engagement of an independent expert to advise the
Minister or Vice-Mister of Transport are prerequisites for signing a contract with
construction firm to rehabilitate the runway at Limas airport (para 2.29).
(v)    The Goverment wfll assume ENAFER!s debt (imcluding fiue arrears penaldes and
interests due), clear ENAFERs aras with utiity companies, and provide the funds
needed for the staff resrucuing program (para 2.12 and 2.13).



-39-
(w)   ENAFER will be diided Into at least three operadng companies (pam 2.12).
(x)   ENAFER will not undertake any investme  oever US$5 million per y   witout the
prior agreement of the World Bank (pam 2.13).
(y)   ENAFER will prepe, by December 31, 1994, a staff training program desiged to
mprove labor productity (par 2.13).
3.3   'he following is a condition of Board prentfaton:
(a)    The definition of staffing rq_ements and the genal fnctdonng of the PCU (parM
2.24); tis condidon was safied in Febuary 1994.
3.4   The following are conditdons of loan efeceus:
(a)    Adequate sffing of the PCU, Including the Director and personnel with qualifications
and epeience acceptable to the Bank (para 2.24).
(b)   Estblishment of the local accouns for the respective implemening agencies (para 2.48).
3.5   The following are conditons of disbursement for specific project categories:
(a)    For raiway work, equipme  and materials: O1) the Government wi submit a timed
action plan, acceptable tO the Bank, to restructure and prhite ENAFER (paras 2.12 and
2.13); (i) the Govement and ENAFER wil sign a subsidiary loan agreement
satisftry to the Bank (para 2.20), and (ii) ENAFER wi  submit the audibors report
and audited financia sament of its oeatons for 1993 (para 2.58).
(b)   For the NMT component  the Govement and MLM will sign a subsidiary loan
agreement satisfaory to the Bank (par 2.20).
(c)    For bicycles under subloans: CMCPL wfll issue opating istrcons for its staff
acceptable to the Bank (para 2.45).
3.6   Rcmdation. With the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$150
milion equivaent for a period of 20 years, including five yeas of grace, at the Banik's standard variable
interest rate.



-40-                      ~~~~ANNEX I
PERU - T      prt R     b i   roject
ANO9!UIxNQ   R.'OIA)MNSAND 
1.    Peruvin transport faciities and services suffer from a host of deficiencies which will need to be
corrected in order for the sector to support sustainable economic development. The condition of transport
into    te  such as roads and streets, railway track and equipment, and airport runways are in various
stages of disintegration: only 17 pecent of te national road netork is in good condition; locomotive
availbiity is as low as 32 perent; and Lima's airport may be closed to traffic if no action is taken to
fix the runway. Lack of maintece and rebabilon of interban roads is increasing the cost of, and
in some cases precluding, getting products to market or points of shipment. Shipping costs at most ports
are much higher than in neighboring countries, and the railway is costing the economy money rather than
contribuing to its growth. In urban areas, the poor pay between 12 percent and 30 percent of their
inome for transportion.
2.    The major causes of these deficiencies, besides the overal economic decline and civil strife, stem
from inappropriate sectoral policies, notably: (i) misdirected investms resulting in over-investment in
capac  in some locations and under-investment in others; CiH) chroic lags and deferral of maintenance
Table 1-1: Modal Disribution of Domesic Fght Traffic
F.,* Ced in Tonne f(in d          )
Year          Rail          Road           Air        ShipnTotal
1983         3,444       14,379            137         25,900        43,723
1988         3,662         20,208         113          32,343        56,350
1992         3,155         64,184          58          22,543        89,940
F egh Ca fd      (%)__          _   _  _   _   _  _  __                  _ _  _  _
Year          Rail          Road           Air     |Shipping          Total
1983           8             33           0.31           59            100
1988           6             36           0.20           57            100
1992           4             71           0.06           25            100
1.  PFs    frs 1992 for road wee  ted from rottrads, otwise aU Sws ane from the MTCC soue.
2.   1991 and 1992 fumes for sipping takbn frmn ENAPU.
3.   1990.1992 fie. for Air t*a fmm CORPAC.
4.   All aoter fiur from MIC and Ewme Yuio& 1989.
S.   Shpping gre ae for isr'ausad dodeti. spping ony.



-41-                              ANNE  I
leading to a staggering maintenance bacidog; (iii) inefficient public sector agecies; (iv) regulatory id
administrative failure; and (v) sub-optmal definidon of fiutional and fincial responsibility for
provision and maintnance between nation  and local governmens, community organizations, and the
private sector.
3.    A number of reform  taken since July 1990 (see Annex 2) have addressed some of these short-
comin; however much remains to be done. The fbllowing sections summarie the main issues in the
trasport sub-sectors ad oudine the measures takn in this project to assist the Government in resolving
them. The rebilitaton of the road system deserves special priority, given the remarkable increase of
truck transport in the last ten years Cable 1-1).
A. Road Transport
4.    The condton of the road network has severely detriorated due to ineffective adnistration and
financing of the road sector, deferred maitnance pracdces, and poor enforcement of road regulations
leadn to overloading and unsafe driving behavior. Te impacts on the economy of such detioration
and mismanagement, in tms of travel time and vehicle opatiw    costs, not to mention the staggering
maitnance backlog, are far-reaching.
5.    Road Netwok. lhe Peruvin road network c jmprises about 70,000 km of which 11 percent
are paved, 19 percent stabilized, 23 perent earth, and he remaining 47 percent are track. Peru's road
denity - 54.4 km per 1000 square km, 3.20 km pe 1000 populton, and 1.91 km per US$1 million
GDP - is half that of its neighbors, Ecuador and Chile, partly because of the large unexplored areas in
the Selva, the high concentrtion of economic activity in the Costa, and the exte  difficulty and high
costs inerent in building and maintn    long roads through the etemely rugged Sierra region and
tropically forested Selva. Futhrmore, the network is not complete, whih missing links in important
corridors. In Peru, classification of roads detemis the type of agency in charge of the roads, the
finaning mechanisms for constuction and maintenan, as well as the standards to which the road is
maintained. The network is classifed as: (i) the primary road system of about 15,700 km, known as the
national road network, comprising three nord-south sxial roads rumning respectively through the Costa,
Sierra, and Selva zones, of which only the coast highway (Pan American) is completely constructed;
and 20 planed east-west transverse highways, of which only three (one in the north, center, and south
of the country) are mostly constucted; (ii) a secondary engineered road system of 14,500 kn; and (iii)
a feeder road system of 39,800 km, much of it consisting of tracks.
6.    Flows of traffic are concentaed on the National Road Network, partcularly the Pan American
Highway, which carries 6,000 vehicles per day (vpd) close to Lima, about 1,S003,000 vpd on most
sections runing towards the north of Peru, and about 700-2,500 vpd on road sections to the south of
Lima. The transverse highways carry as much as 2,200 vpd close to Lima but in general range between
500 and 800 vpd on paved secdons.
7. Conditions of the road network which deteriorated in the 1980s to very low levels began to
improve recely as a result of increased ivestments in rehabilitation and maintenance of roads. By July
1990, about 44 percent of the national ndwork - which is the primary road system - was rated "poor",
44 percent was in the 'fair" category, and only 12 percent was rated "good". Conditions in the rest of
the road network (secondary and feder systems) are even more critical. One of the main reasons for
this deterioration in quality was the steady defrral of    cc  in the 1980's. Tis-trend seems to
have been recety reversed, as a result of the Fujimori Govenment's emphasis on invesments m the



-42-
rehabilitation and repair of the exsting infatuct. By December 1992, about 29 pcenm of the
national network was rated "poor, naly 54 pcet was in the "fair" categoty, and 17 prcent was
rated "good".
8.    Reliability of the road system, in addition to tho safety and condton of the network, affec the
cost of road usage. 'Me lack of all weather roads, poor maintenance practices, as well as topographical
and climatic conditons render larg segmns of the road network impassable or very costly. Ihe Cental
Highway, which carries a large percentag of goods and pasger transport in the cea corridor, is
totally dosed due to mudalides for up to 3 days a year, and average closure in terms of accumulated
hours reaches up to 7 days per ye.
9.    Vehicle operating cos  on the unpaved network and "poor" segments of the network are
extremely high, even considering the natue of terain. It has been estimated that the poor condition of
the network has increased road travel time by as much as 40 percent, affecting in turn, the overall
transport costs.
10.   Composidon of Veide Fleet The composition of the Peruvian vehicle feet between 1983-1991
went through severad   tions. The vehicle Reet has been growing by about 10,000 per year,
reaching a level of about 600,000 in 1990. However, the nature of this growth has varied, in terms of
vehicle type and age, for a variety of reasons. First, before the recent dreglation of imports,
restctions on the import of vebicles left the availability of new vehicles to th high cost domestic
assembly plas. AfRer the recent deregulation of imports the vehicle fleet has been growing more
rapidly. Second, the agp and coniton of the vcl  fleet prior to the deregulation dwfd the effact
of the gowth in new registrations; new vehicles merely replaced the old without contibuting to an
incre in the fleet siz. This was especay tue in the case of pickups, trucks, and trailers. Finally,
the rate of gowth of truck, trailes, and pips has been greater than that of cars and buses. During
1983-1991, the growt rates for the picklp, trc, md trailer feets showed marked increases (up tD 7
percent for tralers during 1988-1989); on the contrary, that of cars systematically declined. With the
dereguation of impors in 1991, there has been a dramatic rise in the nmber of new vehicle additions.
While this ince   is mostly made up of second-hand vehides, it has, _noless, helped to reduce the
average age of the total vehide fleet.
11.   Motoization patterns are also reveding. Ther is on average one vehicle for every 36 persons
in Peru. Ibis aggegte figure, however, hides regional differences. In Lima, motrzation levels are
the highest with one vehicle for evey 1S persons. About 14 of the 24 regions of Peru have one vehicle
for every 100 people, but other regions have even lower motorizaon levels. In Huamcavelica, for
example, tere is only one vehicle for every 1,000 people.
12.   Traffic safety remains a compelling issue in the road sector. Available stastical data indicate
more than S3 annual deats per 10,000 vehicles, ranking Peru among the high fatality rate group of
-developing countries. Furthmoe, the perentae increase in road acciden fatities between 1977 and
1987 is about 3.6 percent per anmm in comparson with genrly declining ataliy rates obsered in
other counties. Safety problems are most severe in urban areas. In Lima, about 70 percent of fatal
accidents involve vehicleedestrin incident. Among the prevailing reasons for safety problems in Peru
are: (i) meand inefficient use of road space, includig poor signing and dcannelization, and
uncodnated and n ncioi  traffic signls; (  poor provision for non-vehicular traffic in urban
areas - in Lima bicycles and pembulator vehicles for trade, as well as pedesrians all contibute to the
congestio of the urban road spac; (ii) lack of speed limitation and enfcement of safe driving behaviot
- among the most frequent causes of accidents and fatalities are driver's imprudenc (39 percent),



43-                               ANNEX I
overspeeding (20 percet), druik drivg (8 percent), and pedestria negligence (6 percent); and (iv) a
lack of awarens and commitment to safety. Other caues include lack of road markings, guard rails,
and signing as well as lack of vehicle inspection.
Red Mwsagemat and Adib tbx
13.   Adminin and flnancing of roads in Peru has gone through fundament chuanges as described
in Amx  5. Several alteratives for decenrization are cumendy under discussion, some reforms
envisage the creation of departmeal units which will take over the responsibflities of the former regional
gvmme , but be directly under the MTCC. In the framewwor of the National System of Road
Maitne (SINAAC: Suem No4w de Manenime  de Carree  ), about 12 teional disicts
are to be set up (among which three were opional in December 1993) to assume the responsibilities
for the mainenc progm, under the jurisdiction of SINMAC.
14.   Decentaization gives damena directorates and municipalities road maintnace and
rhabilitation reponsibilities for the extensive sub-national network, comprising about 54,300 km and
78 percent of the toal road network. Ihe resou   available to these agcies (fiances, staff,
equipet) are seriously lacking. For example, the equipment fleet in the hands of the local goverm
is about at the end of its usefil life, and is in need of refirbishing and renewa. 'his situation is
aggwrad by the absence of a reliable and dedicated funding mechanism at the local level, as well as
lack of technical skill at the operational level.
15.   L=oca govements have used innovative but sometmes inefficient means to overcome these
limtons. First, facing the scarcit of equpmen, labor intensive tecmiques have been relied upon with
a measure of success. Second, several of Peru's municipalities have joined in supra-govera entities
to coordinate muicipal effots in large metopolitan areas (e.g., Municipality of Meto litan Lima).
Finally, however. muic  es have resorted to settig toil collecon stations on road segment where
ther are no alterative routes, ths exacting a gate fee to all incoming traffic. These toiling systms have
recety been abolished pending a reevauation of road financing mechnisms.
16.    1Re-u. At present, the isdituional capability to adds evironmetal issues
associaed with road projects and usage is weak or non-existent. Road construction in Peru, despite the
sensitive topographical and ecological conditions, has so far not had major direct impacts on the
environment. Slope stability and draiae problems have mostly been limited to localized sections. The
im    of slope stability and drainage roblAs on the reiabiliy of traport, however, have been
severe. Road sections are often closed due to such problems. Ihe main reason is the capaciy to respond
to such problems, which is very low, as is demonstrated by the length of time the roads are closed due
to mudslides. There is also limited concern with respect to indirect effects in the selva region, where
road impr         have conribute, on a litd basis, to lega and illegal exploitation of nat
resources (timber, wid animals), erting some pressure on exiimg and prote    areas. In some cases,
road developmeat may have accelerated lad tenume conlicts in areas where the Government is developing
tt ural amd lad-tiding proga. The maie and imporne of these indirect effects need to
be addressed within the broader context of economic development and environmental susainability.
Polluion, as a result of road usage is a major issue in urban areas, espeiy in Lima where road
congetioncontibutes to poor air quality.  Annex 15 gives a more detailed descripdon of the
environmental aspect of the project components.



lilt~~~~~~~~E



Ahpei heesa ansd Rq*avWa
22.   Peu bas a totl 305 aipor and laig strips, of which 59 aro managed by CORPAC, 113 by
munclpalltu and the Ministy of Dl nse, and 133 by pivat operars. Due to rugged terrain sevea
of Peru's airpo  are located at bigh altde, with eiht of dtem being higher tha 2,000 meters, and
Juliaca beng the hht at an devaton of 3,824 mterave sea level.
23.   In 1992, eGeneal DirectoratforAirhanspot, DITA, prwducedtheNational AiportSystm
(Sistnema Nadoal de Affopwlo - SNA) aied at adaptig the deveopment of airprt faciities to
respond to current cvil avaon needs. T1is systm clssifi aipor using the followig coniderons:
(i) strategic (defes) and ntegaon; () airport equipment; (i) aw tasport sevices; (iv) a transport
demnd; (v) air operations; and (vi) soo-economic development. According to te SNA, Peru's airport
bhv been classifled as formiag. (a) fte Nadonal Airpor Network (d Bddlca ANdonal de Aempuertos
- RBNA) comprisig  ionda, intationa, principal, and compl y aos; and (b) the Rogiona
Airport Network (Red ReSgi    de Aeroperos - RRA). Based on this clasifcation, Peru has 12
natial/ ona airports. Futr ivetment disions and the role of the Govnn    aviation
devlopment (e.g., whedher to decentralize or privaie aviadon-related actvities) will be made following
ths ystem of dclcation.
24.   Peru's arport facies are not sufficiently equipped to me th chage of a expot eonmy
and ai   thder role of Integrai  and pacicaton. The raso  for poor funcdonal pedormace
include: lack of resources, poor planing, etreme    _  neglect, and obsdoet air avigation
epmnt. All of CORPACs airs consist of one rnway each,        its mejor Jorge Chbz
Iffnadonal Arport in Lima. ITe runway p       are in varius stges of deterioration due to lack
of  a. Th extt of rehabilitation wok on the runways, following years of 
nslect, couled with the fat tat aie   the airpor  are sigerway aiports, creats  a substanial
clen   and cost of repair, in reiltating tee aipo   while keoping them oeaional. Good
practices ae threfore esseni to avoid thse high cost. Only two airports ae capabl of
handln B-747 ircai   One is Jorge uvex Interatoal aiport and the other i. locaed at Pioc on
tm cost about 200 om south of LIma Mkot ote man arpor can     _      aircraft up to a DC-B,
whie a few otes are limited to B-737. Airraft can reful at only 12 akports and 27 landIng strb.
In terms of nvigationl aids, 11 airpot prvde deton  equipment, to  airports prvide insumen
ldIngs, 20 provie voice radio cot, and 29 provide radio directiona bacos. Only ten aiports
permit night time landing.
25.   Ie rnway and taxiwq at Lima Airpor, of p m          importance for Peru's aviation sectr,
ae badly in need of rebi o  In 1993, this airport was used by 33 aIrlines seing 38 internationa
and 29 domestic dI.  T nway pavment, to which only minor  s  have been made since
ts constructio in abou 1960, is badly in need of rehbilition. It is curendy  wing sigs of severe
de,t I .,  -in (cacking and spalling) tohe extet tht some aiines have voiced complaints about it (it
b now rated as 'a runway with concern" and pibts have complaned about rough landing and taeot)
and if the cuet ra  of detebrioain   not arrested, dte arport may n  sadsfy the FAA and ICAO
safty reuao  for landing some typ of aircraft It is eomated ht the runway may deteriorae to
"a dangr   rwy in less t   th  years, afber which neary aU intnonl operations may be



-46-                              M          1
26.   Past _antg      neglect has led to the cur  level of deterioration on the runway and has
consted an excessive cost of routine       . A maor rean for defered mdw         is the lack
of resources due to high operig decis of CORPAC, pardy due to bad debs from national airlines.
This problem has since been resolved a  result of recent prvaization, mainly of Aeroperd which was
a large debtor of CORPAC.
27.   Traffc Composition         Trends. Of the total 1993 trfflc at airports mnaged by CORPAC,
Limaes aiport accutd for 26 percent of aircrat operations, 41 percent of paengers, and 70 percent
of freight tonnage. Direct traffic movements among regional airports are much smaler in comparison
with those which either originate or end in Lima. Domestic traffic, which accounts for 65 percent of all
aircraft operations at Lima, peaked in 1987 ad decined util 1992, when this trend reversed itsef again.
On the other hand, intnatonal trafflc has shown erric increases in both passenger and fright
volumes'. intetonal passenger volumes exhibited irregular gwth aes from 1987 to 1990 and the
declined also irregularly between 1991 and 1992. Intnational freight volumes were in a declining trnd
from 1987 to 1990 after which volumes almost doubled.
28.   O     t   Effciency. CORPAC is a public enteprise, which under Peruvian law, operates as
a private    e, with the exception t  its sole shareholder is a state authority. Under the Pemvian
business legal system, CORPAC is supposed to oa  as a financially self-reliant entity. From the late
1980's, CORPAC has operated at significant losses; equivalent, in current dollars, to US$4 million in
1990, US$4 million in 1991, and less ta US$8 million in 1992. Among the main reasons for poor
fiacal performae were: i) the collection rate - in 1991, the reserves r snted about 60 percent
of receivables, mostly due to the deliquency of Aeroperd; (iH) interest on accumulated debt; (iii) high
shae of persom el epses (salary, administaive purchases, ret   benefits, and contac with third
parte) in to  operat  costs due to labor redundancy - peonn  expenditures were 73 percent of the
operating cos in 1991, esimated at 67 prcent for 1992, and forecast to 65 percent for 1993; and (iv)
iefflcient opentions leading to low revenue generation.
Aviaion Pelky Rfnw
29.   Privatiza_on of Aeroperz  In lauy 1993, Aenper was sold to a consortium led by
AeroMxico which offered US$54 milion for 70 percent of the shares (broken down as 47 percent
AeroMico, 21 percent a consortium of private sharebolders called SERMINCO including Banco
Ierandino, and 2 perce a single prvate hivestor), approximately double the initial base price. Former
Aeroperd employees received 10 percent of the shares while the state reserved for itself the remaiing
20 pernt, pending a possible sale of stock in 1995.
30.   Prior to privaizaon, Aeroperd carried out several reforms including: (i) a rationalizatim of its
routes by discondmting services to nine Pervian cities, as well as Bogota and Caracas (ack of operatng
airraft was a good incentive for such route rationalization); (ii) reduction of its personnel by close to
1,000 (about a third of the total work force); and (iM) great attention to day-to-day operational eficiency
- rehabiliaton of a B-727 engIe in Aeroperd's shops for a large saving in costs, renegotiation of
several contract on terms more favorable to the airline, ad instuting procedus fr betor management
of the carrier's negative cash balance. As a result of the above efforts, Aeroperd reduced its
Cbla wrake, whh he usled in a dc lin Ituis ta&  NW *h MM of imWo nOW0o, wbich hvo
recedInoais.inegdhtf  gc         p myo plalayespa end. 7.Is, howwver, a       Me_ e a p ws
it is  pecbdat there an a santa numb erof _u1eoe ahrcraft nvemes of meg goods.



47-                                    t
amnistae costs, and reduced the rate at which it was          g loes.     was abo able to
advertise itsldf for privatization as bavig: O) gross anual sales of about US$87 million in 1991, of
which domstic traffc accuted for 34 per   and natnal trafic accounted for 66 percent; (ii)
loss of about US$25 million; (9i) a negative cash balancs of about US$21 million; and (iv) assets worth
US$54 million.
31.     v    on and 1R tucuhsI of CORPAC. The present policy of CORPAC is to work
towards oril efficiny so that it may achieve onan         pnce and profitability. To this
end, it has takea thrm  major steps: ) reaed agreme  with the central Goveent on Aeroperd's
outtanding debts, wbich clas up its balance shoet; (ii) reduced its labor redundany by about a third,
which has posidvdy affdected its Ioome s    and (ih) proceeded with a privataton program for
a few of Is airport sevice, opecspiay those which have recoy shown operaonal losses. lbese
deo   seem to have improved CORPAC's Income st_    CORPAC's losses reduced from US$12
milion in 1990 to US$8 million in 1992. Furtier efficieny gains are expected from these refoms:
privatzetion will rest in generating conaual rues where previously ther eisted operaonal
loses, and privatiation will improve service thus increing demand and generat  greater rvenues.
32.   Sinc July 1990, 866 employees have paticipated in CORPAC's voluntay reiremen progm.
Additonally, 410 excess employees hae been lId off.
33.   h rv       during the restuctuing process have contnued despite severe financial limitations.
CORPAC has und _rtake a number of Ilvestmt recntly: Q) radio and navigation equpmet for the
folowing airpors: Cbklayo, Cuo, Pueto Maldonado, Ayaccho, San Juan, Pisco and Tiumbes; (ii)
_imnrmo    in the folowairport termins: Pisco, Tumbes, Tarpo, Talaraand Cuzco; (ih) repairs
of the runway at ito Airport; and (iv) pansion of rways at Pue   EsperaBza and Alya airports.
34.   Rem Dt                Within the process of liberalizon and elimdinon of monopolisfic and
rstictive practes, the Lgilative Decr  (DL 670) was passed to modify the current Civil Aviation
Law (Lay 2482) accomplishig  e following: Q) eliminion of unnecessary pperwork for the
aquisitin  of airplanes and the award of pemits and licenses; (i) liberization of crges and fees, to
be set by the makt; and ii libeadion of arport land-side services, which could be provided by the
prvate sector (previouy, solely CORPAC provided those services). As a rest of these measures an
initial boost has been given to Peru's commal aviation  F  example, since July 1990, DGTA has
issued: 7 new permits and 4 rewals for intenaional services; and 25 new permit and 6 renewals for
4ws  servwes.
D. Watabone Transport
35.     udtItmm  Reform. Overall _oodnato, plaig and relation for the maritime, river and
lake tr       sector is  the responsibility of the D iectra  General of Water Transport (Direccidn
GCeade 1jwftAaAct), under MTCC. The E             sa*cadonal de P9wls Peru S.A. (ENAPU),
a publi company, manages and operates the national port of the country. Prior to dereguation, the
CoipWa Pama de Vapores (CPV) was the natonal shipping line opatg under a series of
prwoecdt iv es nd r atios. CPV has since been li aed, and its merchant ee almost all sold
mW opwxaMon% pwking,4 lps an kmaee, ad  -_    &=VwL



48-                                ANNEX I
to private enities. In addition, the monopoly once held by the Comisk5n Cordhzadora de 7)a*o
MarWno (CCTM) over all stevedoring activities within ENAPU ports has been abolished, as a result of
which ntwly established private enterprises are now competing for the provision of stevedoring services.
The early results seem to be positive as stevedoring costs to ENAPU for cargo handling have decreased
by a reported average of 50 percent.
Prot nfrastnuctre
36.   Strucme and Owueasip of Port Failaes. Ocen freight transport accounts for 95 percent
of all Peruvian international trade. Movement of trade is accomplished through a system of 27 ports, of
which 22 are maritime, four are river ports, and one is a lake port. About 16 of these pons are publicly
owned; five are privately operated; the remaining are held by public industrial companies. Waterborne
freight is haudled about equally between publicly managed ports (in the hands of ENAPU) and those
independeny operated. In the early 1990s, independenty held ports accounted for over 55 percent of
total freight movements, measured in number of ships (see paragraph 38 for the measure in terms of
tonnage).
37.   Competition. Similar to the independently held ports, the ENAPU port system is a specialized
rather than generalized system, in the sense that ports are geared to handle specific types of commodities
rather than being general ports each one competing with the other. The specialization of the ENAPU port
system in terms of the main commodities handled is: Callao (gener cargo, grains, mineras, contners);
SalaVerry (sugar, grains); Chimbote (fishmeal, frtilizers, coke, iron); Matarani (minerals, wheat,
chemicals); San Marttn (fishmeal, fertilizers, grains); Paita (eneral cargo, containers); Ilo (ffshmeal);
and Iquitos (consumer goods, wheat). ne exceptions to this characterization are two: (i) the terminal
at Cailao which handles all types of cargo, including containe.;zed shipments; and (ii) the marine teminal
at Paita which handles connerized shipments, and being on the Pacific coast, competes to a certain
degree with the terminal at Callao.
38.   Independently held ports are more efficient, being responsible for about 17.4 million tons of
freight in 1992 (about 58 percent of all port freight tonnage). Most of the freight handled at these ports
consists of bulk minerals, petroleum and petroleum products and is largely (about 95 percent) handled
in four ports: Conchan (41 percent), Bayovar (21 percent), San Nicolas (17 percent), and Talara (15
percent). Exports at these independentty held ports are more than three times as much as imports, *ith
intra-country movements accounting for more than half of the total freight handled. Among the Noin
reasons for poor performance~ of ENAPU-held ports is the poor performance of past investments and
inefficiency of operations in existig ports.
39. Performance. The waterborne transport sector is replete with instances of bad investments. Port
infratucte constructed during the 1960s and 1970s has not achieved satisfactory levels of development.
This has resulted in gross underutilization of capacity and high recurrent costs of operation and
maintenance. For example, port facilities such as Paita and Salaverry are currently under-utilized. Also,
Saaverry requires extensive dredging, which produces high maintenance costs. Several river pors, such
as Yurimaguas and Pucallpa, suffer hydro-morphologic changes, making the facilities inaccessible a
significant part of the year.
40.   The economic, iustial and commercial cenization that domiated Peru until recent years
has resulted in a concentration of port movements in its main port of Callao and a few other ports. In
1992, ENAPU ports handled about 12.4 million tons. Callao accouned for about 55 pacent of this
tonnage. Six other ports accounted for an additional 30 percent (quitos: 0.8 million tons, Salaverr: 0.7,



-49-                              ANNEX I
C2imbote: 0.7, Matarani: 0.6, San Martih: 0.4, and Paita: 0.3). Of the remaining nine ports under
ENAPU control, two did not handle any freight in 1992 (Chicana and Puerto Maldonado), and the other
sweQ port handled about 0.1-0.2 million tons each.
41.   JhMt Movemens  and Trd. Most of the reight is handled in the maritime ports (over 95
percent). and partilarly in the diet loadinguloading ports (90 pernt). River t port accounted
for about a 5 percent share of total freight in 1984-1988. In 1992, only about 3 percent of freight was
handled in rive ports. Traffic handled on Lake TWcaca in 1990 was 31,000 tons of freight out of a
Pervian total of about 27 million tons. The level of freight peaked in 1987 at 36.0 million tons, with
1991 showig the lowest tonnage at 23.9 milion tons. In 1992, the trend of decline in freight seems to
have been arrested, when the total movement of freight rose to 29.7 million tons. The variations in total
feight are mostly atibutable to variations in trsac in independenty held ports and in the level of
domestic movemen of liquid commodities. Freight traffic at Peru's ports used to be mainly handled by
Peruvian regty vessels. This is no longer the case since the deregulation of transport restrictions, the
limination of shipment quotas for Peruvian registry vessels, and the liquidation of CPV.
PMt Serna
42. Reforms are showing signs of success in improving the quality of port and shipping services but
consoldation of the gai" fo. the reforms is still a priority. Several enabling legislative measures have
been enacted or put into efFect with a view to improving the quality of port services and the development
of the waterbon tasport sector. legislative Decree No. 644 (a) greatly simplified vessel registration
re.uhpe_u and procedure, and (b) permitted the initiation of new transport services and routes
according to economic considerations and not p mined restrictions. Supreme Decree No. 20-91-TC
deimind all previous restctions on export and import of cargo, including the payment of fees when
foreign vessels were used. LAgislative Decree No. 688 elimina   all administrative restrictions on
coast shipping routes, and pemited the itroduction of private entities into ENAPU port operations.
43.   As a result of the above reforms, several internationa routes have been reactivated, namely to
Europe, East Aia, and in the Pacfic basn. T'e private sector has reacted positvely to these reforMs.
Mm nmber of shipping compames operig in Peru has incresed from 15 to 32 between July 1990 and
December 1992. In addition, 52 new permifs for operation have been approved for both inrational
as wel as domestic hpping services.
44.   Sizeable reductions in the costs of shipping bave been observed as a result of recent reforms.
Legislative Decree No. 660 frmalized the dissolution of CCTM's monopoly over stevedoring activities
and eldimatd CCIWs quota reative to inernational transport of cargo from public enterprses.
*Islve Decree N. 645 consolidated the procedures under which private stevedoring enterprises could
be established. As a result 70 new stwvedoring enterprises have been established, with competition among
OIem          anerage re-ducdon of 50 percent in stevedoring charges. In July 1992, 25 new
pplicatons were received for establishing and operatng private and cooperative stevedoring enterprises.
Furmore, the handling of contaized cargo at the terminal of Paita has been transferred to private
entepises, as well as the maintenace of break bulk cargo handling equipmen at the port of Callao, and
the bhnling of ENAPUs dry docks.
45.   TaW  ReoL  The commission In char  of regulting transport tariffs (Comisi6n Reguldora
de Mv&s de Thznpone - CRETI) bas been disbanded. As a result, ENAPU sets its tariffs subject to
the  Wrov  by the M ster of Transport. In June 1991, on the basis of a 1990 MTCC decision, new
port tarft were set to accont for ENAPU's real costs. These new tariffs represent a marked decrease



-50-                               ANNEX1
from previous levels, which were set by applying inflationary facts on a geal basis without accunt
for tehological advances. Reductions compared to past levels were in the order of 30 percent for
handling break bulk cargo, 50 percent for containerized cargo, and 50 percent for all cargo handling at
Bo and Marani terinls. Tariffs for handlig domestic cargo are sea tmes lower than either
exported or imported cargo, and are standardized across ENAPUs ports. Whis suggests a de-fat policy
of subsidizing domestic waterborne rnsport by levying higher tariffs on importers and aeporters'.
Cabotage tariffs for coastal shipping are still high (excluding oil products and mineras), compared with
the road alternative (Panamerican Highway). The Government pased DL 688 to encowage development
of this activity. Tariffs have decreased, the caboage ships have priority for dockiWundocking and other
port operations. It is expected that traffic will increase substantly.
46.   Tariff strures have been used as incendves for redirecting activity in the waterborne tasport
sector and achieving success in macro-economic policies. Reductions in ENAPU curges, beyond the
new 1991 tarff schedules have been adopted to provide incentives for a variety of actvti  icluding:
(i) renewal of Peru's vehicular fleet; (ii) developmet  of new export market; and (iii) success of
privaaton efforts. For example, the terminals of Paita, Matari, and Iquitos have posted: (a) 50
percent reduction in tariffs for the importation of uncrated vehicles; (b) 30 percent reduction for the
export of non-traditional market; and (c) 32 percent and 45 percent reducos in break bulk and
ontainerized handling charges respectively for indirect loading/unloadig acvties ofprivateentprses.
Furtmore, ENAPU has adopted special incentives at the marine terminal of Matarai for cargo to/from
Bolivia consisdng of additional reductions from 5 percent to 60 percent of the applicable 1991 charges.
A pilot pricing scheme is also being applied with further across-the-board reduction of 30 percent. These
drastic cuts are all aimed at rediectg Bolivian traffic from Chiean ports to the port at Matai. It is
too early to judge the success of these incentive schemes.
PN Management
47.   The efficiency of ENAPU's operations is hampered by aniqued equipment and facilities, lack
of resources and training. With the exceptdon of newer container handling equipment, e.g., the piggy-
pacers, ENAPU's equipment park is on average about 10 years old, and is almost reaching the end of
its usefil life (5-15 years). Most of ENAPU's equipment ma_teance is contracted out to privat
enttes. ENAPU does not have a system of long-term            in place, and this may resut in
deferring mainance work in dmes of financial cash flow difficulties, a pracdce common in all
infrastructu  sectors in Peru. A detied review of the waterborne sector is necessary in order to
opporunistically schdule the rotation and mainnce of equipment fleets. For example, sttraegic
cascading of older equipment to less udlized facilities in order to delay the purchasing of complebdy new
fleet would be a favorable policy in response to financial shortages.  In addtion, the existg
communcations and inmation systems are deficent. Other shoruges, such as the exstce of only
one scale for general cargo at Callao, and lack of specialized equipment for contie  operati, leads
to bottlenecks and slow operations between ship and storage area, causing higher fuel conmtn and
costly dely.
Simce domeic wstbo  taimpout is n compettnwh coasoal tucki on th P mcan fHiq, it is likeb tht
ENAPU's rafes for coat  n hsve bee purpose lowemd to h  coasol hipng compoet on a mthdalh bes
wiah tucking. If dh is the cse, it suggesls bgly i port ap    i/os an&cr sol ece pot chw   l arou,
or h past pwe of CCTM's stvodoug monopoy in lmainas  mt sde via-_-vi tucking. Improvig So
effcimq of port operdon in order to become compedtve is a beo  approach ta the  _aof btnqot
ai   is curb   beng praiced In 1990,48 pcn of e cao handld at mwme poits (1  mlion to) wa
from   ' .



-51-                               ANNEX 1
48.   Improper investments have led to unusually high recurrent cost budgets further lowering the
finncial efficiency of ENAPU. Very few new investments have been made in the waterborne transport
sector since the 1980's. Only three maritime ports, Callao, Salaverry and Matarani, have been slightly
imprved. Regarding river ports, Iquitos was significantly improved and expanded in 1980, and
Yub puas was constructed in 1982. With the exception of Paita, some 1,000 km to the north of
Callao, where there seems to be an element of diversion of containerized cargo from Callao due to
cheaper tariffs, the other ports seem to be properly geared towards meeting specific regional needs and
requirements. There is no immediate pressure for expanding infrastructure facilities at the majority of
the ports; however, there is a great need for maintenance and modernization. Improper investments In
the past led to a system exhibiting under-utilized ports in good condition and over-utilized and outdated
facilities in a few ports.
49.   Other problems that affected ENAPU's efficiency in the past and that now need solutions are: (i)
the lack of a decentralized policy which considers not only national aspects, but also regional aspects; (ii)
the lack of private sector representatives in ENAPU's board; (iii) excessive number of employees in the
maritime ports; (iv) lack of a strategy for operating ports of non-direct docking, which are still managed
by ENAPU, evet though some of them show no movements for the last few years; (v) unnecessary
paperwork, which is extreme in length and cost, harming not only the user, but also ENAPU; and (vi)
coordination problems with other goverrnent agencies such as the Coast Guard and Pilot Administration
(Direccidn Ganeral de Captanfas y Guardacostas) and the Customs Administration (Adminismacifn de
Aduanas) whose limited business hours differ from ENAPU's, producing serious bottlenecks.
E. Urban Transport
50.   All urban transport in Lima is by road, and bus transportation is by far the most important' form
of public transit in Peruvian cities. It is reported that of about 20,000 buses registered in Peru in 1992,
close to 12,000 (60 percent) provided urban bus transportation in the Lima-Callao area; an increase of
3,000 since 1990. The Lima metropolitan area produces about half of GDP, including more than 90
percern of the national output of urban goods, two thirds of consumer goods, and almost all financial
services. The concentration of economic activity and population (about 29 percent of the national
population and 42 percent of totl urban population in Peru) in Metropolitan Lima makes it vital that the
city is well managed and maintained. This section, therefore concentrates on the provision of urban
tansport in Lima.
Rega*eay Refonns
51.   Several laws were enacted and executive decisions taken to reform the transport sector in Peru
and reduce the state role in direct service provision. Legislative Decree No. 651 declared the freedom
of access to routes for urban and inter-urban bus passenger service, and the policy of unrestrained price
competition. This decree was found unconstitutional by the Peruvian Courts (paragraph 5 of Article 254
of Chapter XII of Peru's constitution). The courts maintained that municipalities had authority and duty
to regulate traffic within their respective geographical jurisdictions. As a result, Supreme Decree 010-92-
TCC was issued, whereby municipal authority for traffic regulation was re-established and confirmed.
'he object of the Legislative Decree is to break up the private bus monopolies which prevented access
to the market, while the object of the Supreme Decree is to prevent traffic chaos from developing on the
stes.
4  Tber am some pedicabs (for freight and pasaongei) in sddition to small open taxis (moto-tais) in many cites.



-52-                              ANNE 
52.   Other laws have been put in place with the aim of providg freedom of access to the passe
rnsport market, alowing the market to set prices, and rewing the bus fleet. These include: (0
Legislative Decree No. 640 which dedlared freedom of bus operations and routes in inter-urban tasport;
(ii) Legislative Decree No. 642 which abolished all tariff controls in Inter-urban bus trasport; (iii
Supreme Decree No. 076-91-EF which permitted the importation of used vehides up to 10 years of age;
and (iv) three Ministerial Resoludons issued in 1992, defining the regulations and fins applying to inter-
urban bus transport and settng out the procedures for removing buses from service once they reach the
age of 20 years. Other laws being considered relate to ground transport in general, an updated traffic
code, and ordinances for urban mass transport and freight transport.
53.   Ihe privatzation of the Empresa Nacional de Transporte Urbano del Perd (ENATRU) which
provided public bus transit in the Luma-Catlao Metropolitan area followed a well-planned process and was
quite successful. First, it was done in a manner that atlowed the proceeds from the sale to meet all
ENATRU's financial obligations without futher GOP subsidies. Second, it provided many of the former
ENATRU employees with economically viable income-earning opportuities. Tlese employees banded
Into 65 mini-enterprises and purchased 452 out 510 operating buses (89 percent). ENATRU provided
credit terms to assist its former employees in the purdhase of these buses.
Pleonnance of Utb  TAwoMt
54.   Physical conditions and capacity of the main road network in Lima are generally good, except
for the poor condition of roads and streets in outlying low-inome neighborhoods, which are generally
unpaved. Dedicated busways along several of Lima's main avenues are a valuable asset in fiul:itating
efficient mass transit. Some of these became congested at bus stops after the deregulation of urban
tasport, and the Municipality of Metropolitan Lima (MLM) took effective measures in 1993 to Ihmit
the number of vehicles on the most overloaded busway. There are also safety problems created by
unauthorized stopping of buses to pick up or drop off passengers. Bus travel delays are high due to
trffic congestion, and so are the costs of increased fuel consumpdon and air pollution. Accident rates
are also high, with recent accident analyses indicating about 70 percent of fatal accidents involving
vehicle-pedestrian incidents. The main causes of these problems are mismanement and inefficient use
of existing road space, including poor signing and channelization of traffic, lc of pedestrin walkws,
uncoordinaed and often non-fcioing traffic signals, and unsafe driving behavior.
SS.   It Is estimated that about 10.4 million trips, including walkig, were made by Metopolitan Lima
residents in 1988. Mass transit represents about 50 percent of all trips taken and about 81 percent of
motorized trael. Walking is also a major mods of transport in Lima acoounting for about 38 percent
of all trips in 1988, about four times the person trips by car. For the poor, mode choices are crrey
limited to: (i) use a bus; (ii) walkc; or (iii) do not make the trip. ntoduction of cheaper bus trsport
or alternative modes (e.g., non-motorized trmnsport) is thus a pressing need to alleviate the high tansport
cost and long walking distances currently undertaken by the poor.
56.   A number of factors determine the existing mode choices for the poor in Lima including: O) the
spatl pattern of urb  development concentatng the poor in marginal areas of the cides and exacting
high commutg costs on them; (ii) the historical orgnizato of the urban transport industry; (H) the
chacterdstcs of the bus fleet; and (lv) the performance of bus operors.



-53-                              ANNEX 1
57.   Organization of the urban transport inustry in Lima has gone through repeated birth-death cycles,
whereby one public enterprise would be dismanded to give way to another. In 1936, the Empresa de
Transportes Municipal (ETM) started public transit in Lima-Callao. Later, in 1965 when financial
problems developed, it was succeeded by the Administrdora Para-Municipal de Transporte (APTL). In
1968, after financial difficulties at APML, the Empresa Nacional de Transporte Urbano del Perd
(ENATRU) was created. ENATRU has since been liquidated and its bus fleet and routes sold to the
private sector. MLM then created the enterprise EMTRACAR, which is now operating some buses
donated by Canada as well as buses formerly owned by ENATRU (Hino 1990 model) for use on trunk
routes. The main segment of the population that suffers from these policy shifts is the low-income
population which is left at times without adequate options. For example, prior to the liquidation of
ENATRU, its services to thepueblosffdvenes were slated for abandonment, since all 'social' routes were
to be discontinued to maintain cash liquidity.
58.   Buses. The age and quality of the bus fleet is improving following the lifting of import
restrictions on spare parts and used buses. Nevertheless, its average quality is still poor and the capacity
and size mix not optimal from a system operating cost perspective. In Metropolitan Lima for example,
about 2,000 (17 percent) of the buses are of "regular" size with a seating plus standing capacity of about
100 passengers. Ihe rest of the bus fleet (83 percent) operating in the metropolitan area consists of about
10,000 microbuses. The "micro" buses are generally older with about 35 percent of them being more
dtan 20 years old. As a result, they suffer fiequent breakdowns and contribute to the pollution problem
in the urban areas.
59. Private bus service operators consist of two groups: (i) those operating with a license from MLM
and paying all relevant fees, generally represented by the Centrd de Empresas de Lima y Callao (CETU);
and Oi) those not belonging to CETU, sometimes operating without a permit and avoiding fees paid by
the fnrmally registered'. Most of the latter group operate the 'micro" buses and service routes in the
marginal areas at lower fares, filling in the gaps in the provision of services by the former group. This
distribution of the market has resulted in some corrections (but not complete control) of the tendency for
operators to oversupply major travel corridors while undersupplying areas of lower density of travel
demand.
60.   Alternatives to mass transit for Lima were recommended in a 1972 study by experts financed by
the Federal Republic of Germany, which recommended the construction of a metro. A 1982 study also
called for a surface light rail system along the available right-of-way between Villa el Salvador in the
south and Conas in the north of the city. In 1986, spurred by atrctive bilateral finding, construction
started of a rail rapid transit line (tren elicnico) in the Tomes Marsano and Pachacutec corridors, at an
estmated cost of US$400 million-a highly disparate figure compared to the low-cost alternative of
MLM's busway system. The rai project remains incomplete with a 9-km stretch mostly built in the
outermost section from Villa el Salvador to Puente Atocongo.
T ere ae opetng committee other than CB1U formed by opemalons of malr buses. Wb the progssn of
dergulaon of warffs and routes, the need to organi became les pessing, and the distinedon between the two groups
became blured. Reenly, with ineasg preue to  rgulat rute and to cap trat tarff, opertna commi
ate resuming activity in lobbying for their ints.



-54-                               MNL
61.   Bicydhways. MLM is planning a system of biyleways a weil as a ptomotion capaig for
bicycl use. his plan aims to induco subsdittonbetween bus and walking modes   ads noon-m zed
tU5spO1   TWO min fors cumrtly ipede the potentdal use of bicycles in Lima: (a) the high price
of bicycles which rages from US$140-300; and (b)the absence of safe cycle routes, deticated paths and
connections, and secure bicycle parking. Annex 8 gives more detail on the benefits of non-motorized
sport for Lima as well as a descrption of the pilot project to prmte bicycle use, including the
establishmen of a credit scheme for bicycle purchase.



-SS- 5h-                                    2
PERU - Transport Rehabilitation Project
POUCY OBJECTIVES, SATEGMS AND PRIORJUIES, AND REFORM IN THE
TRANSOT SECTOR
1.    In December 1992, MTCC issued a retrospective of achievements realized during the preceding
two years.' It also lists the following as major policy objectives in the transport sector:
a.    To raise substantially the standards for rehabilitating existing roads, to implement a
"Road Rehabilitation and Improvement Program", and to complete the road lints
currendy under wnstuction.
b.    To strengthen the operational and service capacity of the mechanical equipment for road
maintenance and rehabilitation, improve the administration of road maintenance, and
establish intensive programs for corrective and preventive maintenance.
c.    To control the over-dimensioning of road projects, priortize investment through technical
and economic evaluations that justify their execution.
d.    To support Andean integration, favoring the consolidation of road infastructure
following the agreements between the member countries in the Andean area.
e.    To optimize labor policies in the subsector, define principal technical criteria in road
admiistation, and a suitable management approach.
x.    To revise and modify the regulation and system of supervision within the road subsector,
undertaking the necessary institutional reorganization to account for the new
administration funtions and padcipation of regional governments.
g.    To establish incident and safety management systems that permit adequate intervention
in the road subsector in cases of emergency or disaster, by means of a "Program for
Supporting Road Conservation".
h.    To strengthen and develop the planning functions in the subsector, by means of technical
and economic studies and evaluations of road and bridge projects.
i.    To streamline the capacities of regional governments and use the potential of various
enterprises (private and state) in executg investment and maintenance programs to
improve transport infrastructure, which will aid in the economic development of the
population in the project areas.
1. Obejw y PUb4atn Acads 1990f992. Minitedo deTapnwotes, Comumicacnes, Vmvicda y Conswucc6n,
ULn, 1992



-56-                                AkA     2
Strategi and Priortes
2.    The short and medium trm strategies of the governmt for the road anport in Peru are
oried towards the following aspects:
a.    Increase substndally the levels of maintnance of the aional network, allocate maor
budgetay resources, improve the technical conditon and state of meh ical equipment
necessary for road m, as well as improve the road administraion system
acrrendy in exisence.
b.    Continue the emergency program of rtin and periodic maintenance in critical sections
of the nationa road network and the roads locaed In isecue areas, wih the support of
the Peruvian Army, by ms  ageed joily by MTCC and the Ministry of Defense.
c.    Prpare and execute an intenswe road rehabilitation program, identifying and
rehilitaiag critical points in the transport network, with the objcdve of formulating
an Intrated Rehabiliaion Program permitting an impwovet of the reliability of the
road network. Mmis would rely on internal and eal finaning sources.
d.    Coordinate with regional goveme   to complete ongoing works on national roads,
espeially those with foreig financing and those that are critical to the reactivation of
productive activities. Ihis rel    to sections on the Olmos-Corral Quemado and
MorocochaOrvya links.
e.    Coodinate t  axetion of prioit activiies in the rehabilitation and improvemn  -
within budgetay lits - of cria secions on the ral netok, especlaiy ways and
sttes infrastuctuLre and equipment maineanc.
.     Strengthen the cpacity to execute trasport feasiility studies, rehabilitation and/or
imvement studies, traffic and inventory sudies, with te objective of desigoing
packages of futu  investment projects and/or strenghenimg transport planning
capabilities.
g.    For the purpose of intgating frotie zones, conue the encuton of worbs in
coordination with th army, intensitfing acvities on tose roads which are considered
prities in the con   of intgrati  programs snd frontier development.
h.    At the interational. level seek improed physical in ation with neighboring counties,
proceeding with effors to implement bilt    agreets conceng roads, delineated
in the *Andean Pact' and "the Meeting of Transport Misters of the Southetu Cone',
among oters, gang priority to the relatnship with Bolivia (rail and ship connection
via LAe Titcaca).
i.    Seek intenational techncal cooperation between governent, princpally for the putpose
of gaini  accss to moden technologies for improwv  road and bridge construction.



-57-                                ANNIX 2
Reforms
3.    Govment fnance and many aspects of transpor efficiency have been improv  by mfoms
introduced since 1990. The reform process is still underwa, ad the following issues will have to be
furher addressed in the coming years:
a.    Most transport re tons have been abolished including the tariff seting commission
CREIT. However, tariffs set by public agencies are still subject to central government
approval (MTCC and urban transport tariffs applying to Peru's municipalities can be
frozen by the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
b.    Road mateanc  and rehabiitaton activities on the secondary network have been
deceralized to local and deparal authorities. These authorities do not have the
capacity and resources to maintain the equipment and carry out all the maintenance
responsibilities. Enablng legislation for private sectr participation in routine and
periodic _mai e   (through concession type ageements) is under disusion and is
expected to be complete in 1993. Under this agreemet, local authories could contract
out the private sector to carry out maitnce and rehabilitation works.
C.    Most public sector enterpri  have been privatized (ENATRU, AEROPERU, CPV) or
are undergoing a restucuring process (CORPAC, ENAPU, ENAFER).
d.    Toll collection stations which had been established and were being operated by a variety
of state and local authorties have been abolisied. Alterative toll collecting schemes are
under review. One of the considerats is the possibility th private rms would be
engaged to mainta  specific road sections using the toll charges they would coliect as
compension for thr road m      _  responsibilities. This legistion is meeting with
heavy resistance from the formal tuckrs. The system of tolls that existed prior to the
abolishment did not have a rationd basi, and each uthority could levy what semWd to
be needed for its general purposes.
e.    Mechanims for creating a viable road fund (Fondo Vial) for road matenn  and
constucdon are being dicussed. The fund would be fianced through excise taxes on
vehicles, licenses, and fuel. The project is supporting a study to identify te best road
finacg mechim for the Peruvan siuation, given the general difficulty of collecing
taxes and enforcing licensing and regtration procedures.
f.    Import restictions have been lifted resulting in a signifiany inceased level of truck
imports.  he types of trcks imported, in   ms of size and axle configuration, when
loaded, exceed the design limits of Peru's roads and bridges. The central government
has de-facto legalized dhe importation of such irucks by setting up a schedule of fines for
excess weights. Ihese fis are rarely collected. The implications of overloading such
trucks on competive tansport taiff, road mc osts, weight-size regation,
and pavemen design stmdards need to be investigated.
g.    Non-Peruvims can now invest in the Peravian air transport sector. The privae sector
has so far shown interest in these reforms; up to seven new itnational air ransport
operation licenses have been issued and four more have been renewed.



-58-                                ANX 2
h.    Peru has joied a convention promoting th intqegtion of asi trnsport in the Andean
sub-region. 'bis convendon pwvides freedom of acces (open sim) to Peuvian
airspace on a mutual basis, to reglar passenger fights as well as freight and air mail
tasport. In order to fuly meet the requirem    of the convWtion, Peru instuted
procedures for eliminatg previous double taaton schemes. Peru has also established
procedures for giving direct approval to Andea reguar airlines for non-scheduled flis
to Peuvian destinations previouy not served.
i.    A municipal program for non-motorized transport was creted in 1990 in Lima t
increase the pe     of people using bicycles. Tbis program aims to: (i) pwvide a
complemenry fform of transport for people who cur y walk long distnces; (H)
reduce the cost of transportation for low income users as well as save them time and
improve their health; and (I) im    the overall funioning of the urban system of
traffic so as to reduce congestion, incease safety, and efficiendy utilize exstig capacity.
Promotional progrms to export this program to other cities have aready begun followig
signs of early success in Lima.
j.    Labor redundac which was prevalt in the public sector agencies has been drasialy
reduced, following the sale of public cenrs  - AEROPERU, CPV, ENATRU - and
restcturn efforts within CORPAC, ENAFIR, ENAPU and the MTCC are currently
underway to cut thidr employment.  he impacts of these staff reductions on the capacil
to provie service needs to b e    . Posibiltie of assistng laid-off employee in
forming mia        o  to underke operational and maintence works (e.g., railway
track mantnance) an a contactua basis need to be explored. This will ensure that the
Govnmens objectives of increasing public sector efficiency, promoting privae secor
partcipation, and Increasing employment opportunities are met



-59'                                AS=  3
PERU -  raport  b              projet
PIBM=OU BANK 11PIUNE1N1  RNOK= EC
Overvew
1.    Since l9S2, th e Bank s made a tos d of 17 loas to Peru io thsestsor totaling
US$490.6 mfllion. Of the totl loa amount, 42 pect was for highway projects, 21 pen for urban
prjec  (a lnge part of wbich bad urba traWport components), 16 percent for mudtmodal project, 12
percen for aIation, 6 paee for rail, and th remaing 4 percnt for ports.
Highwg v PJds
2.    Seven highway projects wero made totallng US$202 mllion. Two of these loans were made with
rod maintenance as their objecdve (Loan 0127-PE, US$5 mllion, 1955, and Loan 0300-PE, US$10
million, 1961). Although the fi  road maitnc project ra In several difficuldes, the maintnce
effort was contned and expanded wit conideable success under the second maineace project.
-At, the road reconstruction project (Loan 0706-PE, US$30 milon, 1970) also included tec al
btam fo r road maintenance and improvement.
3.    The Bank has made tre highway loans to reconstruct, Improve, and rehabilitate the La Oroya-
P.calpa road. lhese loans totalled US$64.5 milion, comprsing 13 peet of total loans to the transport
sector to date, and 32 percent of all highway loans (other highway loas involved new construction). The
first (      0271-PE, US$S.S million, 1960) heped finance reconstrtion and paving of about 166 km
of the Agusytfa-Pucallpa road, the ea     stion of the 800 km road linking Lima with PucaUpa
In tho upper Amaon River system  Becas of extremely diffit soils and climatic conditions, lack of
experence, and poor engineing preparation, the road was only 80 percent completed when the loan
fnds; were eaust  in 1976; at tat dme the goverxnm    was not able to raise funds to contdiue the
worcs. Subsequently, extesive falues occurred in the Aguaytfa-Neshuya section, which were later
corected by MTC (now  MTC). TIs section was lncluded for upgrdn under Loan 1196-PE, the
L- a          Transport Coridor project, and was defered under the proposed refomuon of the
project.
4.    The second La Oroy-Pucalapa project (Loa 0425-PE, US$33 million, 196$) was for the La
Oroya-Aguaytia section of the road. bI Novemb  1969, the Government and the Bank  reed, after
arge cost ovwers which weo pardy due to Indequa engineeng, to reduce the scope of the project
in order to mitch the avalable funds; consequenty, the remaining work were postoned to a second
phase. The scaled-down project was completed in Jany 1973, 18 mohs after the original Clong
Date.
S.    The third La  0r*-Pucul  proct (Lam  102S-PE, US$26 million, 1974) financed the
remaiig wrs (second phase) in the most crcal part of the La Oroys-Pucilpa section - the 219 km
HuEnuc*-Aguayft secdon. The project iled paving of the entire section, except for about 55 km of
higly unstable terain, which was deferred until further geothnical studies included in the proJect were
caried out. t also Inuded the purcae of a  porton of the mainen     equipment requhred for proper
mainteance of the Lima-Pucapa road and a double surfac treauent for the 61 km Nesbuya-Pucallpa
section. I addtio, 200 km of feeder roads to be Improved and two tamsport related studies were
included in the project. Becaus of inidal delays and  s   cost icres, again resulting from



-60-                                ANNEJ  3
incomplet engineeig work, the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978. Construction was
eventualy completed and the loan was dosd in 1981 with 100 percent disbursement.
6.    The Bank was also involved in acess toads following the violent earthquake in May 1970 (Loan
0706-PE, US$30 mUlion, 1970). ThIs project was quicWy apptoved in order to help recontuct the
access roads to, and wilhin, the earthquake area. The exeut  agency in this case was not the MTC
but ORDEZA, an autonomous agency charged with the reconstruction work. The project had been
identified only at the time the loan was made, and a preliminaw study of ateraive routes for the access
road, a feasibility stady, and detled engineering stil had to be caried out. Although the Bank acted
rapidly to approve the loan, the time required for he studies was understmated at the time of appraisal,
and a number of difficuldes developed with the consultants engaged to prepare them; the rate of
disbursemen, therefore, was slower than forecast. Once the prepaion was completed, however,
constructon under ORDEZA proceeded satisfacorily and was completed in 1977.
7.    The Eighth Higbway Project (Loa 2091-PE, US$93 milion, 1982) had as its main objective the
provision of support for key elements of the Governen's expanded highway investment program and
to sgthen the Directorate of Roads (DGC) within the Minstry of Transport and Co(mmuicatiows (now
MTCC). The project included the rehabilitation of 195 km of severely deteriorated paved roads;
Improvement of another 400 km of unaed roads, to a gravel or paved two lane standard; and assista
for strengthening DGC's road maien  operations trugh provision of equipment, spare part,
workshop improvemets, tecbhical assistance and traing of staff. In order to improve the quality of
management in DOC, the project also provided for the hiring of experienced engineers and managers to
fill soeior positions. Finally, the project included detailed  gneeing for fitmre road rehabilitaton and
improvement, as well as technical assiance for preparing a regional development project and for
executing three transport sector related studies. The execution of this project encounte  basically the
Same problems that affected preious Bank highway projects in Peru, namely; time delays due to
Instional weaknesses; and lack of counterpart funds. In additn, a number of constrih   factors
worsened implementation problems: naura disasters (extensive floods, landslides, and persistent
droughts) which strck Peru In 1983 when project Implementation was about to gain momentum; difficult
macroeconomic conditions which beset the coutry from 1983, leading to a decision by the Bak to
supend loan disbrIsements for all projects in Peru in May 1987. This was followed in 1991 by the
cancellation of the undisbursed balance (US$50.4 million) of the loan.
Urba Projects
8.    There have been two urban projects in Peru totalling US$104 million since 1952. The fist one
was an urb  sites and services development project (Loan 1283-PE, US$21.6 million, 1976) which
orally consisted of, among other instuctural components, access roads of 86.1 km to connect low
income setemens (pueblos j6venes) to main roads and upgading of estg roads in these setemen
(US$5.47 million). In the secondary access roads component it was  pected tiat the beneficiaries In the
pueblos j6vens would make a down payment of 10 percent of project costs, which was similar to the
down payment for other services such as water, sewerage, and electricity. The residents of the pueblos
jdvenes viewed road construction as a public service to be provided by the government and were
unwilling to make the down payment ITe government, having tried for several years during the early
part of project implementation to modify this view, to no avil, requested the Bank to cancel this
component from the project (despite the project having a 29 percent ERR, higher than the industi sites
(4.8 percent) and electriciy (25.4 percent) components of the project) ; which was done In 1981 when
the project ws restuctured.



-61-                                ANN    3
9.    The trassport componets of the second uwban project had better success. lbis was the Lima
metropolitandevelopment p6ct (Loan 2451-PE, US$82.5 million, 1984) which was Intended to support
the progressive transfer of u     admitraion from national to local government, and specifically, more
efficient metropolitan maagement in Lim, the capital of Peru. In addition the project supported
improvements in high priority infrastructure and services in the areas of urban transport (US$60.2
million, or 59 percent of total project base costs), solid waste management (US$9.4 million, or 9 percen
of base costs), and a wholesale market (US$24.7 million, or 24 percent of base costs). Included In the
transport subproject were: traffic management improvements throughout the city; paving of about 100
km of street in low-income areas; and road rehabilitation and maintence. Other subproject compones
affting transport included the provision of vehides, equipment and transfer station capacity and
development of two landfill sites to meet the needs of the city's solid waste agencies; and intttional
strthenig through studies, technical assistance and training of the agencies charged with each of the
above activities as well as ivements in city planning, municipal finance and coordination of urban
investments and project administaton.
10.   The urban transport subproject was the most successful of project subcomponents. Efficiency in
planning and management mostly explains this performance. Road rehabilitation and street paving in low-
income areas were generally on schedule, and so was technical assistance. IThese accomplishment
notwithstanding, the Borrower's faiure to officially notify the Bank of a bidding agenda for the fit four
sections of a transport improvement program - the Tren Electrico Prqject - prompted the Bank to
request a cessation of the construction of the bus corridors that were expected to be adversely affected
by the program   The Bank cancelled approximately US$12 milion allocated to the execution of
engieming works for the bus priority routes which had been conceived as a low-cost, first-step approach
to solving some of Limahs most acute traffic problems. However, spured by bilate  fnding, the
Government decided to disregard the agreement with the Bank. This became a major issue given the
diparity between te trn's US$400 million estimated cost vs. the proven low-cost alterative offered
by the Bank's project.
MUatodal Piecd
11.   The only multi-modal project (Loan 1196-PE, US$76.5 million, 1975) was for a combined
highway and river ports project for the Lima-Amazonas T port Corridor. It consisted of a further
stage in the development and upgrading of this corridor, including: the improvement of 37S km of road
between Lima and Pucallpa and acces road to PucaUpa and its river port; improvement of 110 km of
feeder roads; construction of river port at Yurmaguas and Pucalipa and expansion of the river port at
Iquitos; procurement of road maiunance equipment and installations; procurement of hydrological
equipment; and consuting services. Improvement and paving of 240 km of the La Oroya-Huanuco road
were achieved in this project. Progss on the port component was slow, and disbursements on the road
project were seriously delayed. Contractng of civil works was also extremely slow because of MTC's
amberome procedures and limited implementation capacity. However, most contracts were evenually
let. A restrumcring of the proje;:t, concentrating on its most needed components - particularly on road
maintece - elminating the lowest priority road sections, was done in 1979. Eventually, the works
were completed in 1985, when the project was closed (US$70.82 million disbursed) - two years later
than expected.



-62-                                AN       3
Ava*ox Projed
12.   An aviaion developmet project (Loan 1963-PE, US$58 mMion, 1981) had the objectives of
increasing ths efficiency and security of civil aviation in Peru and Imprving service to the easte jungle
and jungle highland regions, which had poor transpt links with the rest of the couty. This was to be
accomplished through the impvmenut of three regional aiports and construction of a fourth; provision
on a nation-wide basis of comunications, navigational and other aviation equipment including a fight
Inspection aircraft; an f    oengineering for the pojec airports and for a new airpot at Cuzco and
technical assistance for CORPAC. This project faced no special risks, and was dosd in 1987, one year
behind schedule with US$19.25 million disbwsed and US$38.75 million cancelled. The Implemeio
of the project was adversely affected from the start by the unavalability of local fwuds, which reuld
in the Ministry of Economy requesting Bank assine in the analysis and resolution of CORPAC's
financial problems. The project wa entuly reformulated by timming its size to reduce the need for
couterpart funds, and establishig a plan of action to Improve the financial position of CORPAC,
including means to ensure that the airlines AeroPerd and Faucett honored their payments to CORPAC.
Although there was some improvement in project Implementao and CORPAC's finacial posiion
following this reformulation, the project was eventualy suspended when the Government stppe making
service payments on World Bank loans in 1987, leadig to a general suspension of disbursements. In
July 1988, the loan account for this project was closed. However, the part of the project which was
compieted showed a good overall rate of rtur (19 percent after reevauation).
Ralway P)vjeds
13.   There have been two rail projects in Peru, one of which was eventaly cancelled. Loan
0190-PE, US$15 million, 1958 and Loa 0334, US$13.25 milion, 1963 were made to the Peruvian
Corporaton (PC), a private company which owned and operated the country's most important raiways.
The first loan, however, was cancelled by mutual 4r before it became efectve. The second was
successful both from physical and economic points of view. In 1972, the governm  purhased PC's
assets in Peru and created ENAFER to manage the railways. A railway technical assistnce project was
appraised In 1986. but never executed.
Port Projecs
14. Four port projects have been carried out in Peru. The first two (Loan 057-PE, US$2.5 million,
1952 and Loan 0208-PE, US$6.58 million, 1958) wme made for the expansion of the port of Callao.
Although delays were encounted becuse of difficuMles with contctors, the projects were completed
isfactorily. Two fuither port loans were made  oan 0373-PE, US$3.10 million in 1964 and Loan
0446-PE, US$9.10 million in 1966) for the ports of Pait and Pisco respectively. The Port of Piso
project helped face the  uton of new port facilities at Pisco, consistng of a four berth marginal
whaf and related facilities; carry out feasibilit studies In connection with the ocean port of Chimbote
and four river ports; and Imve port opratin and procedures, including pem el training. Both
projects were completed successy. An appraisal report was prepae for the Port of Salaverry project
(1959) but no project was subsequeny apprved.



63-                                  ANNEX4
PERU - Transport Rehabilitation Project
ROADERMlLllATO AnlQ MARONH&CE
1.    Road mainenance on the Peruvian netwotk (70,000 km) is largely decentrized with most of
WMCC's maintennce equipment and staff having been handed over to local and regional authorities in
1991-92. Whether on the national road system (15,700 kn) which is under the responsibility of MTCC's
Genra Directorate of Roads (Dwreccidn General de Caminos - DGC) or on the departmental (14,500 km)
and feeder road systems (39,800 kn) wbich are under regional and local jurisdiction, the maintenance
condition of the network is extremely poor. Unreliable funding mechanims, lack of training at the
operational level, critical condition of the equipment and weak institutional and organizatonal structures
are at the toot of the large amount of deferred maintenance which can be observed today on the highway
system.
2.    'Me Government is seriously addressing this problem and has assigned the highest prioriy to the
road subsector. In January 1992, it secured a loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)
to strenghen and resurface the Pan-American Highway and pat of the Central Highway, a total of about
3,500 kin. These works, which are undertaken by private construction frms, concern 60% of the total
length of the paved roads belongig to the primary network and will not only eliminate the backlog of
maintenance on this portion of the network, but also extend its service life for another 10 years or so.
'he proposed Bank-financed project, as described below, will address fiuther the needs of the national
oad network, including not only a major investment program of urgent road rehabilitation and bridge
construcdon schemes coupled with a mantenance pilot plan, but also a policy and instiuonal
dev'Iopment component aiming at strngthening the capacity of the highway authorities to carry out more
efficienldy their planning, implementation and maintenance functions.
3.    The pposed project includes an investment program consisting of (i) urgent road rehabilitation
schemes; Qi) a bridge component; (iii) a road mantenanc component; (iv) a traffic safety component;
and (v) a policy and insdtutional component regarding road management and finance which is described
InAnnexS. lhetolalbasecostfor teims ()to (Oii)havebeen Stimated atUS$118 million,broken down
aS fOlOW3:
_______    coes inus$ ini*ko
Conp_om       Sub-PnJo                    Fmi DesnT Conat|on  Supervion    ToWl
d Rudliablom       ThMP *         _                            10.3       0.6    10.9
Ribo Nir                        0.35       13.2        1.0    14.5
Rbo NlswaC  Quomdo @CW)         0.45       32.3        2.5    35.3
TS=-La MelCod                    v          6.6        0.5     7.1
1A Mezeed4ailpo                 0.35       13A         1.0    14.8
O-7IIOO MuhA                    0.25       5.2         0A      -
BfidMp             Acqulsldooof uagsybMgee                     2.9         -       2.9
Rom" of BDafy bddes             0.2         3.7        03      4.2
Repla.emmnz of deli bdeS        1.0         9.5        1.6    12.1
Bridge rusuageassot andy         1.8                   .       .
21.0
Road Maint.        piot h*e                         0.3        7.5        0.8      8.6
TOuW                                                4.7       104.6        1.?    118.0



64                                  ANN    4
Road Rebablita00n
4.    Apart from the final design of future road improvement, five road segments are Included in the
rehabilitation progran. A summary is given below on the status of these links, their present condition,
the studies which are available or are yet to be updated, and the anticipated rehabilitation works.
5.    TARAPOTO-RIOJA (135 kn) is part of the northernmost trans-Andean route linking the cky of
Olmos in the Costa, to Tarapoto in the Selva. Included in the previous Bank financed Eighth Highway
Project among the road links to be improved, construction works extended from 1984 to 1988 but were
not oompleted, due to lack of counterpart funds and cancellation of the loan. Ihis road link can be
subdivided into three sections, starting from Tarapoto:
(a)   ITe first section, 35 km long, runs over a flat to rolling terrain and is paved with a
double surface dressing which has performed reasonably well so far, although significant
patching is required on a number of localized sections.
(b)   The second section, 65 kn long, crosses mountainous terrain and has remained unpaved,
with very high roughness.
(c)    The last section is 35 km long and runs over rolling twain. It is paved over its entire
length, with a double surface dressing on the initial 15 km and a 5 cm cold bimmin
concrete carpet over the next 20 kin, between Moyobamba and Rioja. This cold
bitminous wearng course has deteriorated badly as a result of poor mix design (ston
qulity).
6.    Detaied engineering designs were prepared in 1993, taking into account the earlier designs and
the works carried out in the 1980s. 'he following rehabilitation and maintenance works are needed:
(a)    Over the first section, routine manten   followed by general resurfacing.
(b)    Over the second section, pavement construction including: paving, slope corrections and
extensive routine maintenance, aiming at restoring the efficiency of the drainage system.
(c)    Over the third section, pavement reconstruction.
7.    TARMA-LA MRCED (72 kn) is part of the central highway that connects Lima to the Central
Selva. The first 50 km were also part of the Eighth Highway Project financed by the Bank. For the
same reaons as above, works initiated in 1984 ended, uncompleted, in 1987. Ihe link comprises three
sections:
(a)    The first section starting from Trmia is 26.9 km long and runs over a roiling terain.
About 18.1 km ha  been paved under the Eighth Highway Project with a 5 cm thick
bituminous carpet, which is still in good condition. Short sections totalling 8.8 km yet
remain to be paved.
(b)   The second section up to San Felix cses abrupt and mountainous terrain over
approximately 23 km and has not been paved.



-65-                                AN=K 4
(c)     he third section liDnkig SanF oan Ramdn and then to La  Merced was paved in
the early 1980s over a tot length of approximately 22 km. The segment from San FElix
to San Ramdn bas lost Its asphalt surfaing over a number of short stretches totalling
between 500 and 1000 linear meters, i.e. over 5 to 10% of its total surface area, while
the segment between San Ranmn and La Merced is in need of repair due to many pot-
holes and extensive cracking.
8.    Detaled engineering studies were carried out in 1993. 'Me following maintenance activities and
rehabilitation works are to be undetaken:
(a)    Over the first section, extensive routine maintenance is required on the paved portions
as well as the construction of an asphalt pavement on short subsections totalling 8.8 km
in length, that are still unpaved. Small drainage improvements are deemed necessary,
together with the construction of one retaining wall.
(b)    Over the second section of the road, the bulk of the rehabilitation works will involve the
construction of:
-     a new asphalt pavement, 23.1 km long;
-     15 retaining walls, totalling 300 m in extension;
-     one tunmel, 150 m long;
-     two minor bridges of approximately 10 m long span;
-     a 150 m long bridge over the Yanango river; and
-     some 10,000 meters of surface drainage facilities.
(c)    Over the third section between San Flihx and La Merced, only routine maintenance
followed by extensive patching and resurfacing are to be carried out.
9.    BIJQZA    QL OUEMAD  (275 km) is part of the penetation road into the northern Selva
of Peru, liklng the coastal city of Olmos to Tarapoto in the Amazon plain. The improvement and paving
works which were recendy performed between Olmos and Corral Quemado imply that once the Corral
Quemado-Rioja-Tarapoto section has been rehabilitated under this project, the total length of the
northernmost Trans-andean route, i.e. 600 km approximay, shall be bitumen-surfaced. Construction
works started more than 30 years ago on that road but only earthworks, for the most part, have been
completed. Feasibility studies carried out in 1983 have been reviewed; the preparation of detailed
engineering designs including environmental mitigating measures will commence in early 1994. These
final designs over the total length of 275 kan wil be entirely funded through the World Bank loan.
Rehabilitation works are to be carried out in two phases.
10.   Phase 1 concerns the segment RioJa-Rfo Nieva (100 km) and will be fianced under the World
Bank loan. Civil works will essentially comprise the construction of a new asphalt wearing course and
local improvements t the drainage system.
11.   Phase 2 concens the segment Rfo Nieva-orr_   Ouemado (175 kn).  Civil works and
construcdon supervision shall be flnanced under a KfW co-financing loan. Rehabilitation works will
include not only asphalt paving but significant drainage improvements and the construction of seven
bridges with individual spans ranging from 20 to 40 meters.



12. lUANUCO-TINGO MQA (120 kmn) Is a road which forms part of the Lima- Pucallpa highway
and its construction has been financed by two previous Bank loans. Presendy paved over its entire leng
it now needs resurfacing or strengthening together with other complementary drainage rehabilitation
works, all to be defined by furither detailed engineering studies.
13.   LA MERCED ADEQ (122 km) follows first the road to Villa Rica and then branches east via
the Chanchamayo bridge, about 12 km from La Merced. This road was a component of the Eighth
Highway Project but has not been implemented for the same reasons as mentioned earlier. The platform
of this road has been constructed to gravel road standards. Inadequate drainage, a number of areas with
slope stability problems to be corrected, protective works sgainst river action and ultimately paving were
already identified in 1980 as the bulk of rehabilitation works needed. Further evaluation and updating
are now required.
14.   FURTHER DETAILED ENGINEERING STUDIES. Under the proposed project, detailed
engineering studies will be carried out for the next two road segments in view of their possible inclusion
in a future rehabilitafion project.
15.   7lngo Marta - Pucallpa (255 km) is the end portion of the penetration road that connects Lima
to the town of Pucallpa in the Eastern Selva, over a total extension of approximately 750 km. Five
sections have been identified along the road segment, startng from Puca1Ipa.
Section 1    km 0-21            Asphalt-surfced, in fair condition.
Section 2    kn 21-77           Unpaved, in poor condition.
Section 3    kan 77-95          Double surface dressed, in good condition.
Section 4    kan 95-181         Unpaved, in poor and fair condition.
Section 5    kn 181-196         Double surface dressed, in good condition.
Section 6    kn 196-236         Double surface dressed, in poor condition.
Section 7    km 236-255   :     Asphalt-surfaced, in fair condition.
In addition to the road works, two major bridges need to be built over a total length of over 800 meters
and three odters are in need of extensive repair and rehabilitation.
16.   Many studies have been performed over the last 20 years on that road, the majority of which are
at feasibility level. Although some updaftng by MrCC was carried out in 1984, and as recentiy as 1991
by the Regional Governnent of Ucayali, it is necessary to recompile and review the information.
17.   Puente ainchwmyo (Reiter) - Villa Rlca (44km) was included in the Eighth Highway Project
but not implemented due to cancellation of the loan. The platform of the road was already completed
in 1980 and graveled according to engineering standards. At the time of appraisal of the Eighth Highway
Project, improvement works had already been defined as including primarily proective works against
river scour, slope stabilization measures, drainage improvement and paving. Further engineering
evaluation is now required to update the information.
Bridge Rehabllltatlon
18.   There are some 1,030 bridges on the Peuan road system, of which approximately 100 are of
the Bailey type. On the network of national roads, under MICC jurisdiction, the total number of



-67.                                ANNOC4
bridges Is about 850, including some 90 Bailey Bridges. 'Me majority of these struc    have been built
or erected more than ten years ago, and their actuad conditon desrves either mainteance, extensive
rebabilitation or replacement. In addition, a signifficant number of locations have been identified on the
primary road network, where pemanent bridge crossing   e urgendy required and have not yet bee
provided, dms reut  in unpredictable and osly iMption of traffic durng riny seasons. Ibere
Is theref   a need to globally and radonally address the bridge problem in Peru, with a view to desig
a strategy for the management and improvement of the system.
19.    rigiay, MTCC requested Bank suppo   for acwquirig appo  y 1,750 linear metes (.m.)
of Baiey bridges in order to reae a stockto be used in emergency situaions on sites damaged by
teroit actons or by natu  floods. More precise esmates have indicated that red need is more in the
order of 800 l.m.. After fiuther analysis, it was agreed to alter the previous tendenqy of considering
Bailey bridges as permanent stuctures and keeping them on the same site for decades rather than
replacing them with reinlfrced concrete bridges which, in the long run, are more economical.
Accordingly, and in addidon to the 950 l.m. representing 16 new bridges to be built as part of road
rehabilitation schemes, the project supports the following bridge-related actions:
(a)    Acquisidon of a stock of 500 l.m. of Baiey bridge (crondig to approximately 25
bridge units).
(b)    A constucdon program, including:
- the progressive dismantling and recovery of some 500 LI.m. of existing Bailey bridges
(60% of which are assumed to be in good condition) which will complement the new
stock, followed by the consuction of an equal length of reinforced concrete stuctres
I.e. approxitely 14 bridge units);
-   the dismanding of some 450 l.m. of instaled Bailey bridges which are in bad condition
and their replacement with 10 pemanent;
-   the demolition and reconstuction of some 20 old and severely damaged concrete bridges
totalling approximately 1140 LIn.; and
- COScosuting sertices for the stuctural design and construction supervision of these new
bridges; a design stdy of typical standard short-span reinforced concrete structures is
also indluded, as this may prove useful in situations where urgent actions are required for
permanent crossings.
(c)    A genera bridge study, including the inspection of all the bridges as well as the
Iden-tification of al unprovided crossings on the national network, diagnosis of the
problem at each location in order to deaelop a strateg and plan of action for bridge
construction, rehabiitadon and m ce on the national network.
20.   The first-year imple  on program for the bridge component will comprise (a) the acquisition
of the 500 I.m. of Bailey bridges, (b) the preparao  work (field inspection) necessary for the selection
of the most urgen. sites where exiti  Bailey bridges are to be dismanded and replaced, as well as the
ratoale supporting this selection, (c) based on these field inspections, drafting of terms of reference for
the engineering studies and structural design of the reinfrced concrete bridges to be built on these sites,



-68-                                ANNEX4
followed by invitation to tender, with the selecdon of consultants for timely initiaon of the detailed
studies, and (d) the selection of a consulting firm for the general bridge study.
21.   The surface condidon survey carried out in 1990 offers a dramatic picWe of the maintenance and
renabilitation needs on the pdmary network of national roads. Nealy 50% of the total length of this
network would require extensive strengthening and overlays while another 40% would need to be
resurfaced or sealed in order to slow down the process of deterioration.
22.   Taking into account the ongoing 1DB-financed road program, and considering that this proposed
Bank-supported project will support the rehabilitation of 725 kam of roads as well as an adequate
mainenance over another 620 km of roads over the next five years, DGC will still have to cope with the
maintenance of approximately 11,000 km of primary roads.
23.   To support road maintenance, a number of actions and instiional development measures are
included in this project: 0i the carrying out of a pilot road maintenance program as described below;
(ii) the provision of technica assistance for a study aiming at redefining the organizational structure
required for a more effective road adminision and financing system (see Annex 5); (iii) the
implementation of urgent and critical measures designed to increase the capacity of DGC in the planning
and execution of maintenance activities during the period of this project and; and (iv) the undertaking of
a set of general studies addressing the highway sector.
24.   The pilot naintenance program aims at achieving the following objectives:
(a)   provide the basis for establishing adequate unit costs of typical maitence activities for
both paved and unpaved roads (which is presently lacking);
(b)   test and promote the use of micro-enterprises (including a rational assessment of labor-
based participation);
(c)   determine the deterioration patterns of contrasted types of road surfacing under variable
maintenance strategies;
(d)   provide a suitable center for field trning and seminars during the course of the project;
and
(e)   lay the foundations for frther regional maintenance development activities.
25. The road segments selected for inclusion in the pilot program feed directly into the main trunk
road section from Tarpoto to Corral Quemado which is to be rehabilitated under the proposed project.
They cover a total length of approximately 620 km, belong to various adminisrative classes of roads
(.e.wlth different geometrical standards) and comprie the fll range of wearing courses from earth to
aspatic concrete. Of the 620 km selected, approximately half are paved roads with traffic intensities
of up to SQO vehicles per day.
26.   Ihe pilot program contemplates the tendering out of the ma_ience works to miro-enterprises
located in the area, with the supervision and monitoring preferably assigned to the private consulting firm
which will have previously been selected to cary out the detailed maintenance program. A small but



-69-                                AN=
suitably designed unit from DGC would be instaled on the sie to perform the necessary overall control
and follow-up of the operation. Ihe schedule of actiies are as follows:
(a)    By early 1994, a consulting fim will have been selected to carry out the detailed design
of the maintece program, including the preparation of the related tender documens;
contracts would then be awarded within the first eight months of 1994.
(b)   the period from the latter part of 1994 to 1997 would be dedicated to the actual
implementation and monitoring of the maintenance works; and
(c)   in 1998, final processing of results would take place and a comprehensive report would
be prepared.
27.   Preliminary assessments indicate that the base cost of the maintenance pilot component would be
in the order of US$8.6 million with the following break-down:
ilS$Sllion
- Preparatory studies (detaied desigp of             0.30
Pilot Plan, preparation of contract tender documents)
Maintenance works over a thre-year period:
* Routine maintenance 1                             2.81
* Patching of paved roads                           0.13
. Sealing of paved roads                             1.16
* Grading of unpaved roads                           1.50
 Regravelling of unpaved roads                      1.26
Small bridge and stmctr  repairs                   0.17
. Trffic signs and road markings                    0.27
. Safety measures (plmzlets)                        0.17
-     Supewrvion, monitoring and reports
TOTAL                            8.57
28.   Routine Mintenance of the Prima   Road System.  Excluding the rehabilitation and
maintenance operations to be carried out under the DB-financed program (3,450 km) and under this
project (725 km of rehabilitation work plus 620 km of the road maintenance pilot program), DOC will
sfill have to cope with the regular maintenance of about 11,300 km of primary roads. Matices of road
condition and traffic volumes provided the basis for a preliminary definition of maintece standards
and an approximate assessment of budgetary needs. Table 4-1 presents the requirements (engths of
networks) combined with assumed maintenance stregies and cost esdmates. Accordingly, the minimum
suitable level of annual expenditures to be spent on these activities (to cover the 11,300 km of national
roads) would be in the region of US$60 million (of which US$50 million would be assigned to
mluitenance and US$10 million to further rehabilitation and/or rsurfacing of paved roads). At loan
,1. includig css:tially: cleaning ditches and culves, gas culling, ma of *lope slides and shoulder eis.



-70-                                 ANNEX4
negotations, the  xMvnntM L   dedaurmc  that, for the duraon of the project, an anna
allocation of at least US$50 million, to be updated and agreed with  e Bank betwee Jly and Ocbr
each year, wil be made in the budget for the maitenance of aiond roads other than those covered
drety under eterlly finaced project, and hat these fds be eteased in a tmely manner.
29.   A prelimay assignment of maintnance and rehabitation tas  to the various executg un
availble, accodingtoDtheir respctive capabilities and expertise, leads to the folowing distributioic
Exn: g i                     Main actiiies              Alod  of resr
(% of    bsof us$ 60 millioai)
Force      Miitary           Unpaved roads: grading and                25%
Account    Brigades          regraveling landslides removal,
Bailey Bridges
Paved and unpaved roads:
Civi             gradin and regrveling,
Brigades         removal of slides, patching and
resurfacIng of paved roads                25%
Labor  tnive (Sierra and     Roun maitace (except                      10%
Selva)                      removal of large landsides)
Private Conactors: Small    Regavelling,  rfae  dressing,              25%
firms or micro-enterprises  thidn resa ng, removal of
landsides 
Private Contractors: Medim   AJlftic concrete oveay                    15%
or  rge firms                andlor reconstruction
Table 4-1: Matrices of Road Condidon, Trffic Vohbnes, and Mitenane Standards
Excluding project support  by 1DB, 3RD, and KfW
Lengt of oewwk im km an mintauo Otbdd (P)
Surfaco  _____          ~~Trafti vioIuse per day_ _ _
CooUtI     <200          20 0         500.1000     1000-2000     >200   2       a0  T
Good        so(PO       100(PO)     450(PI)       70 (PI)       0()          790
Fab_P130(2)             10 (3)      240 OM)       10 (3)       10(13)       400
poor        10 (P)     370 ()       170 (PS)      380 (Po6                   930
Tbm!         220         480          86D           460          100        2.



-71-                                       ANNEX4
Table 4-1 (contnued)
Dr,awd
Length of awt  (kin) and maintnance standards
Surfae condtion   T_lhlbe volumes per day                                                 Tota
_____=_____<SO          50-100          100.200            >200
Good              70              200               70               180              520
F%ir             440             1,990            1,110             660             4,200
PaOW             860             1,770            1,340             Soo              4,470
Totl             1,370           3,960      |     2,S20             1 ,34            9,190
Maintenane           W       UNPu                     UP2              UPS
Assessmta   of e      i
Unit      Quaniqt in     TOtl
Symbol                   Ma anc stard dction                           cosmkyear         In       cost/year
_________________    _   __ ________________        (USS)   __          _  USS1,000
P      Rouin mana    + patching                                         1,S00         180         270
P1     Routi maiten    + Rsig with surco teatmebt                       2,550         520         1,331
P2     Routin maien         + patching + ovrlay 40mm asphal oncete      4,350         230         1,003
P3     RouDtie mainten      + patching + oveday 50mm asphalt onee       4,900         260         1,274
P4    Routine maneac + pahng + overay 0mm asphalt cncree                6,000         380        2,280
PS     Routn             + patching +    rlay 100mm asphalt concete     7,950         170         1,353
P6     Routine           + po 0 + mo ay 120mm asphalt coret             9,690         380         3,682
UPO    Routiw mainenac +sPt regrve + one gading per year                 2,300        1,370       3,1S1
UPI    Routie maitnane +spot regrvd  + two gading per yer                3,300        3,960       13,068
UP2    Routne ma_nta    + generl regrvd + four gradings per yea          4,200        2,520       18,144
UP3    Routine ma_intnac + genesal reved + sx gading per year "          9,300        1,340       12,462
To                                                                    Mean-S,130      11,310      S8,018
Or veconstruction to be considered if rougnss vaues exeed 8.5 IMI.
** Roconsuctdon to be conidered if trafic emxcds 300 vpd and IRR> 12%.



-72-                                ANNEX4
30.   In addition to sufficient financial resourmces being made avilable for road maintenance purposes,
some immediate decisions and actions are required in order to strengthen the capacity of the highway
administration to more effectively plan, program and implement the maintenance programs, untl the
strategic studies on road management and financing (Annex 5) make their recommendations, and
implementation of the new system cauried out accordingly. As from July 1993, the Minister of Transport
started implementing an action plan which will be further supported in subsequent years under items IF
and 1H (see Annex 11) of the project. Ihe action plan includes:
(a)    Carrying out over the prinary network a road inventory, including traffic counts and
assessment of road surface conditions (roughness measurements, visual assessment of
major pavement defects), using simple and expeditious procedures, and establish an
updated list of unit costs, per region, for representative categories of road maintenance
actiities. This, In order to acquire a general and more objective picture of the
maintenance condition and needs of this network so as to prepare a program of road
activities over the medium term (essentially, a prelmnary road network master plan),
and more specifically, a realistic mantenance program for next year.
(b)    Creatng a Road Fund and a National System of Road Maintenance. Two Presidential
Decrees dated July 25, and August 27, 1993, have officialy auithorized MtCC to: (i) use
the resources recovered from tolls for the improvement, tehailiaion and maintenance
of the national road network, and (ii) deposit, through MEF, into a special account (Road
Fund), the revenues from tolls, such account to be supervised by MEF. A third
PresidentW Decree dated September 17, 1993, promrulgated the creation, within MTCC,
of SINMAC (Sistema Nacional de Manteiento de Carreteras) which will operate as
a managerially and financially autonomous entity and whose attribuions are to plan,
mnae and control the activities and fcial resources (toll collection and road fund)
related to the mintence of roads and bridges on the national road network.
31.   SINMAC comprises already: iO a steering committee consisting of the Vice Minister of Transport
(tresident), the General Director of Roads, and the Executive Director of the entity, recently appointed
to that effect, and (i) an advisory committee consisting of three members representing the private sector
and the uses, namely the Chamber of Commerce, the Peruvian Association of Roads, and the Peruvian
Road Trnsport Association. SINMAC's          organizational structure would comprise:
(a)    a supervision unit responsible for the monitoring of all financial matters and technical
activides related to the road maintenance program;
(b)    a technical assistance unit responsible for the preparation of amual and pluriannual
programs as well as for the design and operation of the toll system; and
(c)    a number (about 12) of the regional districts responsible for the execution of the
maintenance programs as directed by the steering committee.
32.   The funds for maitence, to be deposited in the special account, are to come from the National
budget, tolls, and any other international or bilateral assistance or donations. SINMAC is to employ
about 20 staff, tD be selected from ether the private sector or among former MTCC engineers now
working under regional authorities and to be contracted at atracdve salary levels. Also the road
equipment previously transferred to the Regions is to return to MTCC.



-73-                                AS=  4
33.   It is aso notworthy that the Genad D iremto  of Roads has requested the Military and Civil
Brigades opeat  In the field to mary out traffic counts In order to updato the information on raffic
volumes. Besides, the National Roads Laboratory has started to update the inventory of the daine
structures on the natonal network and is now equipped with a bump intgrat with a view to cay out
a campaign of roughness measurents with visal surveys of defects over this networlk It is therefore
anicipated that, witin the first quarter of 1994, updated information on the condition and traffic volumes
of the network wfll be available, thus enabling a more accurate assessment of maintenamce and
rebabilitaton needs.
34.   A prelimnay assessment of road safety in Peru suggests ta there is an wrgent need to addrs
this issue and to include a traffic safety component in the Project. Avaiable statistics indicat that about
53 persons per 10,000 motor vehicles are killed aunually in traffic accidents, which ranks Peru among
the high fatality rate group of developing countries. Furthermore, the amnual increase in traffic fatalities
between 1977 and 1987 is about 3.6 percent in comparison wthh a generally declining trend observed in
other counties where the awareness and commitme  to Improve road safety is high.
35.   A number of shortcomings have also been identified, which contbute to this high fatality rate.
They are:
(a)    Most roads have inadequate traffic signs and road markings, and lack safety featres such
as guard ras and Chevron signs (reflectorized panels delineating road at dangous
curves);
(b)   speed limits are not enforced where roads pass through twns or viflages, and there is
no provision for spW  restriction devices that would take account of the particular
characteristics of the road (is type, classification, etc);
(c)   technical control of vehicles is not Implemented;
(d)    despite the regulations on i vincial passenger transport, drivers do not take nor
qualify from a road safety course; and
(e)    educatonal campaigns on traffic safety are occasionaly carried out for urban but not for
rr populations.
36.   As a fitst step, the consultants engaged for preparing the final designs for road rehabilitation
schemes and for the maintenace pilot plan are incorporating in their designs measures to reduce traffic
hazrds on the roads under study. However, futher actions are reqired to improve traffic safety. A
componen to that effect is Included in the project, including a trafflc safety study, the main objective of
which will be to prepare a national traffic safety strategy. Ihe study will also identify specific actions,
such as (a) creation of a traffic safety unit, (b) equipment for that unit, (c) implementation of a traffic
safety data base, (d) training, (e) road safety campaigns, (t materials for road signs and marlings, (g)
safety featr  such as guard rails and Chevron signs, and (0) vehicle inspections.



-74-                                ANNEXS5
PERU - Trnspot tehabilitation Prect
IQAR Al [IDMUON I ANCE
1.    Reform mes instit  by the Goverament In recen years to improve the organzaton of the
road nework have not yielded the desired results. The reponsibility for management of the aional
highway network was devolved to the Regional Govemens but in 1991 it reverted back to the General
Diecte of Roads (DGC -DlreecdAn GOewa  de CQmWos). 'he departmen  and municipal networks
rmai under the jurisdiction of reglonal and municipal atowies. Ihe respoibilities and objecdves
of road mnagement are not deady deined. Moreover, neit  the scarc financial resources nor the
small cadre of qualified technical personnd are deployed efficiently. Ihe result is a very large
maiteace backlog and the resting poor serviceability of the road network which worsens with each
day.
2.    Historically, the DGC of the Ministry of Tranport, Com cations, Housing and Construction
(MNCC) bad been responsible for the planning, design, construction and maintenance of the entire road
netwok (70,000 kn), worng from its headquars In Lima and through 24 departmental offices. At
present, DGC is responsible for only the national road network (15,000 kn). Most personnel and
equipment of DGC's former departmental direcorates hv  been transferred to the regional
adinstratons.
3.    DOC currenty has about 400 employees (down from 6,000 in 1986), including some consultants.
Engineers account for fewer tham 10 percent of the staff. ts regional offices are too weak to efficiendy
dishrge their assigned responsibilities. Ihe rehabilitation and maintenance of the national network is
caried out by DGC's own force account units (19 civil brigades - jeuras caes), Army units (25
militay bigades -jfas  militars), and private contractors. In some inaces labor- based methods
are used for road maintenc. The civil (and mlitary) units which employ about 4,500 persons carry
out slightly more than half the required rotin maintenance.
4.    Ihe funding for road maitena nce comes from general government budget allocations. Road user
charges are mostly in the form of fuel tuaes. Other sources are vehicle license fees and tolls. Central
govenu  expedue  on construction and maintenance    roads is only a frction (about 20 percent
In 1992) of revenues from fuel taxes. In conast to the central Govemment, municipalities have
earmarked road finds which are replenished by local fuel taxes.
S.    In the early 1990s, tol stations operatd along the Paamerican Highway and some other trunk
roads, which were under the control of state, regional, and local authorities. They were closed in early
1993 in response to public criticism that such toils were not based on rational principles and that receipts
were not always used for road maintennce. Tolls generally had no relation to the length of road section.
Some local authorities appeared to fix the toil rates to bolsr  local revenues without transferring the
rcepts to the agencies rexponsible for road maitenance.
6.    The Goverment is studying mecams to create a Road Fund for building and maintaining
roads. t would be fed ftom existing vehicle taxes, license fees but, primawiw, from feel taxes.
Whaever funding meaism is adopted, there is a clear need for establishing a financial mechanism that
is simple, rliale, institonally acceptable, and adequate for building and maintaining the road
inflistructure.



-75                                 ANNEX S
7.    Solutions must be  ud urgendy torfom vaous apects of(a) road adminsttion and (b) road
fnce. Working groups ha  been ablished at MTCC and th Mistry of Economy and Fince
(MEF) In order to address ihese Iues. The studis and governent actions that are needed to impoe
road management are discussed in the remainder of this Annex.
S. Objecives
8.    The objecdves of this project are to help the Government-especially the MTCC and the MEF-in
Identifig and selecting the best altenatves for (a) an oizational structure to effectively manage and
adinier the national road system ad (b) a         wending canism for adequate maintenance and
improvement of the road system.
Improving Road Administration
9.    DGC which used to be responsible for the endre road system, with an estmad asset value of
US$6.5 billion, is now too debilitated even to manage the national road network on its own. Furthermore
the detmenal and municipal road networks receive Insufficient attention from the various local road
agencies falling under the jurisdiction of regional governments, which should have absorbd the former
departmental road directorates. It is thus necessary to specify the responsibilities of the organizations in
charge of the different road neto, takg into account their cons=tional responsibilities and capacity
to assme these responsibilities.
10.   Tbe proposed rems aim to Imve the efficiency and the effectiveness of road management,
by making the road agencies responsible not only for reurce management (iputs) but also for road
conditions and serviceability (outputs). Tie agencies would thus be accountable to the public for the
physical condition of the road newkorks resulting in improved decision-making by their executves who
wold be responsible for upholding the public intrest ECLAC and GTZ have researched these issues
tensively, as documented in a recendy published reporte. This work postulate tha the current
highway problem  Is primarly due to deficient road administaton and inappropriate financial
mechanms.
11.   Sevea feasible alternatives can be considered for the  minion of the naon's road system,
from a single agency responsible for al the roads in the county iresetie of their fimctional class to
a multi-tiered system in charge of the national, departmental, ad local networks, respectively. An
attractive altermative could be a deconcen     ornation with a small headquarters staff in Lima,
responsible for planning and overal management of the national road system, combined with firly
autnomous execive agencies in each departme  (or other political-administrative unit) responsible for
theo main ce and improvement of the roads under their jurisdiction, but under central supervision for
techncal control. This model of highway administration is common in Scandinavian countries and
utiizes principles of industri  organization and managemen  theory.  When considering fte
reorganization of the road sector, the functions of the municipal agencies should also be considered for
the management of urban roads and street systems.
12.   While a variety of organztional forms are possible for managing a road system, there Is
widespread consensus that a responsive and well-fimctioning road administration must have the following
1. Unid Nai  Boonomio Comison for Ledo Amer= and se Catbean C ), Camhos, a nwv enfqe pra
to gad y 0conserwvOn vial, Sntugo, 1992.



-76-                                   NEXS
attributes: its functimons must be based on accepted principles of highway engineering and sound public
administration practices; it must be sufficiently deconcentrated (decentralized decision-maldng) to be
responsive to the needs of the road users; it must be fully accountable to the public for the use of
resources (particularly public funds) and the results achieved; it must have autonomy to establish its own
operating policies and rules (e.g. delegation of some of its functions to the private sector) and
compensation policies for its staff; and it must have a reliable and stable source of fimding.
13.   Responsibilities should be clearly stated and assigned by the Govern'ent to the national
organization in charge of the main road system. Ibis national entity should be reinforced with more
resources and autonomy. The responsibility for local networks should be fully delegated to the
municipalities so that the national organization with its network of territorial offices would concentrate
its efforts on improving and effectively maintaining the strategic national road system. Participation of
the Army in the execution of maintenance works and in providing technical assistance to the civil
organizations could be quite useful In improving the road network in selected strategic areas. Other
technical inadequacies could be resolved through a crash traing program. A cental technical assistance
unit in MTCHC in the form of a Superintendency of Urban Roads could be created to provide assistance
to municipalities.
14.   The road     ion  personnel in MTCC constitute a much smaller work force as compared
to other road administrations in Latin America with.a similar span of responsibilities. This is pardy
explained by the inability of MTCC to attract qualified staff due to very low salary levels, which are well
below those in comparable countries in the region and are even lower than in other Peruvian Government
agencies. Clearly an increase in the number of professional personnel cannot be expected if salary levels
are not raised. Since the present situation at the MTCHC makes it difficult to reach the near-market-
level salaries, other alternatives will have to be invesdgated in order to attract and retain qualified staff,
such as special training opportunities within the country and abroad, improving the work environment,
improving the facilities and equipment, instituting a systematic approach to career development and
advancement, and establishing extra-salary financial incentives such as performance bonuses. Such
incentives should be merit based and available only tj those employees who have a good work evaluation.
Inmtitutional strengthening and personnel management has been treated as a marginal issue within
MTCHC, with consideration given to the creation of a special organization for managemenit and operation
of toll roads. A diagnosis of the existing adn  problems and their solutions are being studied
at the University of Piura and could provide a basis for a more detailed evaluation..
15.   The functions at central level should be reviewed against those of the territorial offices. The
central level funcdons shoUld be concentated on effective planning, programming, and overall
supervision and control with no direct involvement in operations. Ihe territorial offices should be so
defined that they can make independent decisions, are more involved in operations and are less planning
oriented. There should also be more efficient mechanisms for awarding contracts and making payments
along with the necessary tedhnical and administrative capacity to supervise works. The present role of
the state forces in road construction and maintenance needs to be reexamined particularly with respect
to the availability and ability of the private sector to undertake such works participants. Whether routine
and emergency maintenance should be done entirely by force account or by private companies is
debatable. However, periodic maintenance, rehabilitation, and new construction should be done through
private companies.
16.   The use of micro enterprises as a mechanism for executing routine maintenance could improve
the situation of the local roads and could possibly be applied to main roads. The Pervian Institute for
Social Economy (a private entity) is investigating alterative sources of employment through the
privatization of public services. Road maintenance works executed through labor based methods and



-77-                                ANN    S
undertaken by private micro enteprises could generate significant levels of gainfl employnt
paicularly in rural areas. One possible altnative could be to create micro enterprises that employ tie
present road workers who are paid on the basis of predeflued work and inspecdon of road conditions.
If these workes live in the vicinity of the roads, they wvl be more inclined to keep the roads well
maitied.
Improving Road Funding
20.   MTCHC has established a working group to assess a national toll system, mainly as a mechanism
to collect fuds for the rehabilitation and maintence of the roads. The group should identify secdons
of the road network suitable for tolling. Furthermore the group should review the existing legislation and
prepar model legislation for establishing road tolls. Such legislation should penrit private
concessionaires to bid for road works, allowing recovery of investments through toll charges.
21.   Funding for road ma     ce and improvement at present is part of the state 'caja tica'. All
taxes paid by road users go into caja dnica and are not specifically allocated for road improvement and
maintenance works. Varous fcors have contibwlbded to this general govemmet policy such as the
miss of specialy allocated funds for housing and toads In the past. In general MEF would be reluctant
to modify its policy regading earmarked fmds but it might be amenable to consider a special fimd for
roads with its we confined to road maiten   and rehabilitation to help remove the massive
mahaunce backlog.
22.   The idea of establishing a road fimd for maiance and rehabilitation works by charging a
spe  'tariff on fuel prices, -ibich is anmually adjusted on the basis of actual maintenance and
rehabilitaionrequiements, would allow in the long run a reliable source of funding for maintenance and
provide a durable solution to the problem of premature road deterioration. Such a fimd should be
adminstered independently of the central government budget and its size and structure should be
established by a standing inter-ministerial committee, including represenatives of the organizations of
road users. 'he majority of parties involved, represe   both public and prive sectors, have
welcomed this Idea.
23. As mentioned before, another alternative for mobilizing resources for the road sector would be
to grant concessions to prime companies for road works such as construction, rehabilitation, and
ce. Such concessionaires could recover their investments through tolls paid by the road users.
lblls are, however, a high-cost mechanism for raising revenue and are justified only on roads with high
traffic volumes (generally an ADT of over 5000); there are very few such roads in Peru.
24. Road user fees in the form of a special fuel tax can have several effects that should be carefully
managed. First of all, a fuel tax could be inflationary in the short term. In the medium term, however,
the inflaonary effect peters out as fuel constites no more than 15-20 % of road ransport costs. Such
a tax serves as an efficient user chage and produces substantial revenues for the road sector. In urban
arm, fuel taxes should not be the only mechanism for cost recovery from road users and could be
supWle       by parking charges, prperty taxes, and betterment fees.
25. The proposed road user charge study under the project, to be implemented jointly by MTCHC
and MEW will recommend a new structe of road user fees and taxes, including tolls, to ensure ta
adequate reurc  are generated by the road users to pay for the upkeep and improvement of all road
systems. In addition the study will recommend a tax structure that p ly accouns for road damage,
congestion, and other exteraities, while considering other factors like regional mtegration and income



-78-                                ANNEXS
distribution impacts. To the extent practical, user fees and taxation instead of regulation would be
considered for modifying the behavior of road users with respect to road damage and congestion.
- - -                     C. hnplementation Strategy
26.   The International Road Federation (IF) and the German Cooperation Agency (GtZ) are
preparing a training program for countries in the region that wish to improve their administration and
fnaucing systems for road maintenance. The U.N. Economic Commission for Latin America and the
Caribbean (CEPAL) and MTCHC have expressed an interest in participating in this program. This
technical assistance could be started by the end of 1993. The program includes the preparation of model
contracts for maintenance, methods for paying the companies, assessment of the roads condition,
preparation of changes in legislation, training in the companies involved, creation of such regulatory
entities as a road superintendency, organization of a road fund, and methodologies for calculating charges
to the road users. If this technical assistance is adopted, it will be incorporated into the project.
27.   The pilot operations for road maintenance that are included in the project will help to strengthen
the administration and financial reform of the road system and will include different types of contractual
arrangements for road maintenance in different locations, and different quality control procedures. The
results from these pilot operations will help to establish the best methods for bidding, work allocation,
and quality control.
28.   A special committee should be formed at MTICHC with represenatives from the planning,
construction, maintenance, and training departments to coordinate the pilot maintenance operations and
various studies and evaluate the resuls for wider application in MTCHC's road operations. The existing
'toll road' work group could form the basis for this committee.
29.    Reform of road administration and financing systems will necessitate prior consensus of all
parties involved. This will be feasible if all interested parties are aware of the problems, alternatives and
solutions, inherent risks, advantages, implementation terms, costs, and benefits. This will require
discussions among Government authorities, transport companies, construction companies, long-term
investors, insurance companies, banks, and the public in general. This process would be facilitated by
a consultadve council formed by private sector representatives, as allowed under the MTCHC legislation.
Medium-Term Action Plan
30.   The institutional strengthening of the national and local road organizations will be a slow process,
whose success will primarily depend on the availability of trained professionals and their knowledge and
dedication. On the other hand, adequate financing will be of critical importance to ensure stability in
road manltenance programs and the related organization. Subject to further refinements based on the
recommendations of the proposed studies of road organization and road finance due to start in 1994, a
medium-term action plan could include the following elements:
(a) Fostering a national concensus on the enormous losses to the economy and the country caused by bad
roads (estimates range from US$200 to US$300 million per year) and the need to reform road
administration and fimancing, through policy seminars for decision makers, press briefings, public
hearings, and professional conferences;



-79-                                ANNEXS
b) Ihe establishment of a road organzation with a dear definition of is functions, attributes, personnel
structures and policies,including delegation of executive functions to terriorial offices;
(c) Preparation of an updated Inventory of tfie roads and their condition, a prioritized investmentprogram,
and establismt of procesas and procedures for effective planning, programming and budgeting;
(d) Implementation of pilot road maintenance programs involving micro enterprises, private contractors,
deparmeal or municipal force account units, and military units;
(e) Establishmen of a new structure of road user charges that provide an adequate source of revenues
for road maintnce and imprwvement programs and at the same time promote efficiency in transport
services;
(f) Establishment of a special road fivd managed by an intministerial committee and representatives of
road user groups to ensure timely availability and adequacy of funds for road maintenace and
reiabilitation;
(g) Revision of exstg legislation to penni award of road concessions to private companies based on
toll as a source of revenue.
31.   The proposed action plan should be accompanied by a process of moderization of highway
unctions in MCI{HC including adoption of appropriate management systems, transparent and competitive
bidding procedure, field inspections and financial audits, and appropie monitoring and evaluation to
provide systematic and regular public informadon on the condidon of the road system and the growth in
the volume and type of trffic.
NOM8: T*e Anm=z on Road Antralon and Finane was defted in July 1993 duing the course of the appnial
miima. It does not reAet dh ubsequ  decions taen by Govemen in tbis rard.



40-                               ANNkI6
PERU - Tnsport RdhablUtation Project
PRIVATIZATION ANM REEABlLiTATION OF THE RAILWAYS
I. Railway Overview
1.    Railways play an important economic role in Peru, transporting minerals, petroleum deivatives,
filizerts and other bulk commodities. These minerals represent a substanial part of total Peuvla
exports. Peru's railway system (2,074 km) iS made up of severl compaies, not al of which are
physically integrated. Ihe national ralway company ENAFER (Empresa Na8cona de Ferociles) I
the largest operator, dividing its oprations into the Central (475 kI)', Southern (915 in)*, and South-
Eastern (172 km)* Railways. CENTROMIN, a state-owned mining company, owns and operates two li
(272 kn) which connect with ENAFER's Central Raiway. A prvate mining company, Souter Peru
Copper, also operates a rail line (240 km). The railway network is maiy made up of stndard gaU
(1.435 m) except for ENAFER's Huancayo-Huancavelica and Cuzco-Qulilabamba sections, which are
narrow gauge (0.914 m), representing about 15 percent of the total network. A line previoudy operated
by Cap Casagre has been closed.
2.    (Te Central FnUM  (FCC) with 346 kn of main line, links Lima and the port of Calo with
the cities of La Oroya and Huancayo in the Central Sierra. bt is the highest standard gauge raiway in die
world (maximum altitude 4,829 meters), and one of the most difficult to operate becau  of the stee
grades (over 4 percent), switchbacks, and sharp  rves. In this corridor, the raiway is paralleled by the
paved Central Highway. Currendy, over 50 percet of freight tonnage along the coridor is tsported
by ral. In 1992, 779,000 tons (152 million tonkmn) were trnsported on the Central Raflway betwee
Callao and Huancayo; about 77 percent of this traffic was either metal ban or concenrates. Nealdy 56
perce of Centromn's cugo was transported by rail, reeenting about 87 pecent of FCC's tota freit
movement. The non-economical passenger services between Lima and Huancayo were suspended In
1991.
3.    The narrow gauge Huancayo-Huancavelica line (129 kn) of the Cenl Raflway is largdy
dedicated to passenger traffic. This line is virtualy the only access to an othervise isolated and
underdeveloped area. In 1992, k carried 533,000 passengers but only 35,000 tons of freight.
4.    The &rutem Ralwa (FCS) consists primariy of the 855 km long line linking the sea port of
Matuar  with Juliaca and Puno on Lake Titicaca, and condmtug from Juliaca to Cuzco over the high
plateau; a ferry service frm Puo  cocts with the Bolivian railway networl. Some 545,000 tom (232
milion ton-kn) were transported on this railway in 1992. Trific is made up of minerals, petroleum
derivatives, agricultura products, fertilizer, cemen  and Bolivan international traffic. Ihis raiway is
not paralleled by paved roads except over relatively short sections and, consequently, carries two-thirds
of all freight traffic in the Matrani-Cuzco corridor. Passenger traffic Is also relatively high, wth about
562,000 passengers (126 million passenger-km) in 1992.
* Wittid



-81-                              ANN    6
5.    In addition, the FCS admistes operations on the distinct Tacna-Arica line (60 kn) along the
Chilean-Peruvian border. Although it carries no freight and only limited passenger traffic (64,000
passengers in 1992), it is kept in operation to comply with the terms of the 1929 treaty between Peru and
Chile.
6.    The South-Eastern RiLwav (FCSO) consists of the narrow-gauge line (172 km) between Cumo
and Quillabamba, via Machu Picchu. The profitable tourist traffic between Cuzco and Machu Picchu
reached 84,500 passengers (9 million passenger-kn) in 1992, and the subsidized non-tourist traffic, pardy
to otherwise inaccessible villages in the Sacred Valley, amounted to 490,000 passengers (51 million
passenger-kn).
I. Instituticnal Framework
7.    ENA PER has a six-member Board of Directors headed by a president. All members of the Board
are appointed by the Ministry of Transport, Communications, Housing and Construction (MTC).
Overall administrative and operating responsibiities of the railway rest with the General Manager who
is appointed by the Board. Likewise, the regional managers of the individual railways are appointed by
the Board.
8.    The railway company has had to cope with deteriorating traffic, finances and infrucre. In
part, its problems have been linked with declining mineral exports, rafl traffic diversion to road, and with
the inability of management to release itself from political interference and to adequately adapt the
company to the changing economic environment. ENAFER must rationalize costs and improve
management and operational practices in order to ensure its profitability and cut its reliance on the central
Government's budget.
9.    This means that ENAFER must be converted into a commercially oriented and efficiently operated
enterprise. To this effect, ENAFER's management responsibilities are being delineated, with a view
towards increasing the entity's autonomy and accountability. At the same time, the Government is giving
fdll support to the privahzation of the entity, as detailed later in this Annex.
10.   Raila Operffn. In the case of FCC, the difficult topography requires special operating
practices such as the use of double-heading locomotives on the Callao-Huancayo line, where switchbacks
make it impossible to accommodate more than ten towed freight cars and one locomotive on some
strtches. ENAFER startod a program to double the capacity of these switchbacks on the central line;
however, works had to be stopped because of a lack of fumds. A few simple indicators demonstrate
ENAFER's operating problems: between Callao and Huancayo, main-line locomotives travel slightly less
than 44,000 km per year, and freight cars less than 9,000 km. Equipment use is somewhat better in the
southern corridor, which has an easier topography and longer average distances for both passengers and
freight: the locomotives cover about 120,000 kan per year, and freight cars some 14,000 km. This is low
by ienational standards, and it is estmted that anmal equipment utlization could almost be doubled.
In general, but especially for FCC, train runs could be rescheduled into a tighter timetable, and improved
demnrrage tariff policies could markedly reduce car turnaround time, and thus reduce losses. ENAFER!s
operating efficiency could still be further improved by renegotiating its labor agreements to permit
rational operations in line with the company's new commercial orientation.
11.   Ihe condition of ENAFER's locomotive and wagon fleet has deteriorated significantly during the
last fvw years as a result of its inability to carry out the necessary maintance and overhauls due to
financial constrain. Locomotive availability in 1992 was about 27 percent (56 percent in 1983) and 42



-82-                              ANNE 6
percent (47 in 1983) for FCC and FCS respectively (80 to 90 percent is commonly tned in the
industry). These availability ratios improved by the end of 1993 to 48 percent for FCC and 51 percent
for FCS, as a reslt of the rehabilitadon of 18 ALCO locomotives through a program financed under a
Japanese grant. Freight car availability in 1992 was about 68 percent on the Central Raflway and 79
percent on the Southern Railway. Ihe wagon turnround dme for FCC was 8.9 days in 1992 (8.1 in
1983) but was 18.3 days in the case of FCS (12.5 days in 1983). The mechanical workshops are old and
are faced with severe limitations of spare parts, inappropriate size, and poor location. Lack of
equipment, tools, and quality control contribute to the low availability, reliability, and general
performance of locomotives and rolling stock. As a result maintenance and repair costs are increasing,
and thus are an important factor in the resulting loss of business. As an immediate measure, ENAFER
should urgendy improve the provision of spare parts, particuarly for locomotives.  An overall
preliminary assessment undertaken in 1993 has identified appropriate solutions to improve worksop
efficiency, including modernization of equipment, quaity control, and work programming.
12. Likewise, tracks are not kept in proper condition due to shortage of inputs for the mechanical
services and work areas (i.e., lack of equipment and materials). As a result of deteriorated tracks, speed
restrictions have been imposed on several line sections to provide safe conditions to traffic. A recent
survey of track conditions indicates the urgent need for the provision of track materials on critical sections
of the line. This i specially true of the Southern Raway. There is also an overal shortage of track
mainance equipment - a need that has become more evident as a result of the staff reduction program
13.   shm. In 1990 ENAFER started its staff reduction program and reduced its staff fom 5,440
to 4,068 (December 1993); however at 2.6 staff per km of main line, it is still overstafd. The
Government transferred (April 1993) US$2.5 million equivalent for the payments owed to the staff who
retired during 1992. A comprehensive study of manpower requirements has been underta   and about
2,200 employees are to retire in 1994, bringing the total ENAFER employment to 1,857. Most of th
redundant staff have already reached retirement age but have been unable to retire because ENAFER has
not been able to generate sufficient funds to meet the required severance payments (equivalent to one-
month salary for each year in service)'. Successful completion of this program, which cost about
US$9.4 million, requires securing these funds from the central Government.
14. Table 6-1 compares productivity of ENAFER employees, utilizing number of employees per
kilometer of main lines method, before and after the completion of the staff reduction program. It is
relevant to quote dtat employees per kmn decreased from 3.88 in 1983 to 2.79 in 1992. Although not
readily comparable, these ratios are curently 2.07 for the Brazilian Federal Railway (RFFSA), 3.06 for
the Sao Pauto Railway (FEPASA), and 3.15 for the Mexican National Railways (FNM). With the labor
reduction program, employees per kn are expected to fiurher decrease to 1.19 for ENAFER. In tem
of other efficiency measures of railway staff, in 1992, ENAFER labor productivity was 141,940 T.U.
per employee which is less tan half of internationl standards. In comparison, this ratio is 661,000 for
RFFSA and 514,000 for FNM. In terms of the individual operating performance, the labor producdvity
of FCC, FCHH, FCS and FCSO was 117,323, 196,950, 165,597, and 113,839 T.U. per employee
respeicvely. With the restcturig of ENAFER and realization of the staff reduction program, this rao
is epected to  cre  by 1996 to: 302,000 in FCC, 440,000 in FCHH, 392,000 in FCS, and 223,000
in FCSO. Iherefore, once the reduced employment targets have been acieved, the railway will be
1. Under th Peuvin abor la, am tie retg stff receiv ti comp_tion.
2. T.U. (tr   u     .t) - tn-kn + puenr4=



-83-                              AN=  6
placed in a stronger competitive positin with other modes of trasportation. The data on current and
projected staff levels, however, hide important shortages of skilled staff. It is thus important to review
the proposed staff reduetion plan and proceed to Include a comprehensive training program for the
remaing employees.
Table 6-1: Employees Per Kilometer of Main L3ne
December 1992        Projected
FCC (Callao-Huancayo)                        3.77               1.34
FCC (Huancayo-Huancawellca, FCRH)            1.52               0.83
FCS                                          2.39               1.03
FCSO                                         3.34               1.70
Total ENAFER (including headquarters)        2.79               1.19
15.   The impact of labor reductions may be adverse in communities along the railway corridors where
ENAFER is the major employer. At the same time, specialized workers have the appropriate know-how
to perform satisfaorily specific raiway tasks. In this context, steps should be taken to assist in the
process of incorporating the laid-off workers into the productive sector. The workers who are rendered
surplus on the railway should be informed of the oppordtues to start productive activities. Ihey should
also be encouraged to find altenative employment in other Industries ad In the micro-enterprises dsth
wod  replace some of the activities of the laid-off workers. Activities such as track rehabilitation works
and wagon repairs can easily be privatized and thus can be a source of employment. Consultas should
be engaged to define a program which utilizes the experience of this staff and at the sume time minimizes
the hadships caused by the changeover.
16.   TraIning. Lack of adequately trained personnel has contributed to low labor productivity in both
operadonal and managerial/administrave areas. Before ENAFER's training unit was disbanded, it was
characterized by chronic understaffing and insufficient expertise to adequately perform its functions in
planning, organizing, implementing, and evaluating training actiities. In addition, courses were not
derived from a comprehensive analysis of training needs. In order to develop a suitable training system,
it is neesary to emphasize traintg activities according to specific technical and instituonal development
objectives, with strong participation of supervisors and managers in the selection of courses, seminars,
and on-the-job training. Annex 10 describes the training component of the project.
17.   Inondc SerSces. Passenger services were suspended in 1991 on the Lima-Huancayo line.
However, ENAFER contiues to provide other uneconomic services such as: (i) freight and passenger
services on the Huancayo-Huancavelica line, requiring an annual subsidy of US$0.6 million; (h) services
on the Tacna-Arica line with an anwal subsidy of US$0.5 million; and viii) services on the Cuzoo-
Quillabamba line, where annual losses due to freight and passenger traffic to Quillabamba amount to
about US$0.5 million. Most of these services, which requkre an overall subsidy of US$1.6 million per
yea, are considered politdcally importat for inegration and social reasons. The Gwvernment may,
therefore, be prepared to compensate the railway company for the subsidies required; alternatively, these
uneconomic services should be closed down.



-84-                              A         6
mL RainwayP on
18.   Rail services would highly benefi from stronger pardcipation by the private secoDr in Its
activies. To this effect, the Govenment has Included the railway in the overl pnvatzatlon program
of ste-owned enterprises (Leislative Decree 674 and Law 26120), and has formed a special
privaization committee for the national railway - Com   Espeidde PrlwAwddn (CEM-ENAFER).
'he restucturing effirts of ENAFER focus primarily on those reorms and measures that are necessary
to prepare the railways for an early privaization. Besides the resolution of the financial obligations and
the rationalization of the labor force, these reform include the most critcal emergency investme  that
are required to keep the system operational within the acceptable safety guidelines. Major capital
investments would be deferred to fuumre private owners of ENAFER, thus ensuring the usefulness of such
investments. The proposed strategy thus aims to transfer a restructured and functioning ralway to priWate
investors.
19.   CEPRI-ENAFER inteds to follow a well-defined pdvatzation process, including the preparation
of an independent inventory and valution of assts, the apropriate financi and tenical hifmation
to all interested bidders (dimaion memorandum), protional actites, competitve bidding ad
timetable, sales agreements between the Government and the prvae investor, etc. Other aspects related
to ENAFER's liabilities, such as the short and long term debts, accounts payable and social benefis
amounting to US$132 million (end 1992) will also have to be resolved before the railways can be offered
for sale.
20.   Before a partclar prhvazation proposal is selected by the Govemment, altemrntvepaization
scenaros will be analyzed by CEPRI-ENAFER  Experience from the prvatzatlon of otier railways
indicates that sveral different models of railway privadin ae avilable. One alteratve which has
been adopted by many counies is to separate the resposib of ifastructure from opeaDons. Ibis
techniqe sllows tie Govemment to transfe only the riway  ratons to the private sector while
retining control of the railway infasructre, and thus is analogous to road tsport However, this
kind of privatiation is geneally cha d by cleady defined services opeating over specific railway
lines. In certain cases thejoint prvatdzation of services and track inasctre may be more appropiate,
as FCC is dominated by mining, the operating ntgrity should be kept under a single responsibility.
Another option is to contract foil concession of line corridors for long periods, generally about 30 years
or more.
21.   The transfer of FCC (Callao-Huancayo) to hs main client the mining company Centromin, was
not considered in the ongoing process of privatization of that company. Once Centromin is pivatzed,
the new owner may be interested In consolidtg Its own raiway (La Oroya-Cerr de Pasco and
Pachcayn-Chaucha) wih the FCC line as a single opatg unit. If this lternative does not materialize,
FCC should still be offered to the priWte sector as an Independent entity. The same strategy should be
applicable to the remaining two lines, FCS and FCSO, which houd be offered to the private sector as
separate railways. In view of the more promising financial suation of FCSO, derived mostly from the
tourist traffic to Machu Pichu and because of limited issues imvolved in its pfivati n, an early
privatation of FCSO may be possible.
22.   Ihe narrow gauge line from Humncayo-uancawdica, because of the socia ntre of its services,
could become an independent entity explicidy subsidized by the national budget and managed by a prvate
contact. Similar treatment could be edeed to the Ibna-Arica line. Once all transactions have been
completed, ENAFER headquts would cease to opeae.



45-                                A
IV. ENAFER's Fnanal er%formance
23.   During the last decade, ther has seen a serious deterioration of the rilway's fcial posidon.
This has been caused by the loss in revees, without a correspondlng decrease i costs. Tbe revenus
loss was mainly caused by a 21 percent decrease in freig hauled in 1992 as compared to 1990, from
498 million ton-km to 392 mllio  ton-km; pasger traffic decreased even nore, by nearly 52
percent. Further cuts in passenger traffic during the first haf of 1993 have brought the total reducdon
to 71 percent. During the 1990-92 period, operating revenues decreaed by 51 percent while the
decrease in the operating expee was only 22 perc     The operational expene have remained high
mainly as a result of the high labor costs which  ount  to nearly half of the total 1992 operating
expenses.
24.   'he operating losses during this period were fanced by accumulating liabilities - by not
servicing the railways' debt and by deerring the payments for pesom   related contributon to the
social security agency, pension and heath payments, and other legally mandated payments. Tbis
frther detrorated ENAFER's financial posion, as delays in the serice of the outandig liabilities
(shown in Table 62) resulted in heavy financ   penalies against the company by its editors. As a
result, 1992 non-operaing expenses exceeded the operating expenses, and the tota expenses were
nearly three times total revenues.
Table 6-2: ENAFER's LiabIUties - December 19M2
(US$ mion)
Shoet-      Loea       Acoants      SoeId
tenm  Debt  tenr  Dbt   Paabl        Befi         Totd
27          37          46          22          132
25.     Bndal  Ec=d. Separe financial fores have been prepared for the t     regional
raflways: FCC, FCS, and FCSO. It is assumed tht the future operation of the aiways will be stricty
based on the financial stgth of the regional companies ad dat the unprofitable routes will either be
closed or explicidy subsidized by the Government to fully offset te opeational losses. The privato
sector is unlikely to show any Interest in acquiring the raiways without a pemanent solution of
ENAFER's debt.  Thereare, It may be necessary for the Govement to assume ENAFERs
outanding financial obligatiom (both domestic and extnal) befre s transf  to the private sctor.
The financial feca   are ths based on the _ton  that, after 1994, ihere wil be no
nn-operational expenses, except for the repayment of tie proposed rehabilitation loaL
26.   These projecdons were  epaed  o vatively by holding freight and passeWer traffic
volumes to the levels of 1992 with only minor adjustmes for the opestional    r    in that
year. Tiriff rates and distances traveled, lilkwise, have also been held constant. t is assumed Ihat the
labor reduction program will continue as planned, wih the  get (1,857 positions) beig acheved by
December 1994.  After the ralways restruct   into separ   operatng companies, EXAM
headquarte  would be dissolved; It Is assumed t   the 67 ffeced staff positons would be
proportoned into those opating compaies. It is futher assumed that the exonditum on supplies
and materials will subtilly increase from their curr   levels dtrig the yeas following the



-86-                                 ANBXA
Investment program.  Salary ap        is asmed to hceas  by 5%  per year sating In 1994 to
compensate for increase in labor producdvity and Increases in the geeal price level. As shown in
Table 6-3, operang and working ratios of the ranlay are apected to improve substaly, even
without an increase in traffic. Detaied income stemets showing past and projected perormance are
presented In the tables at tie end of this Annex.
Table 63: Railway Profitabillty Ratios, 992 - 2000
BIse Case Sene"t
I19    1993   194   19    1          19      i       1999    2X
FMC
Qpmting Ralio       183%   154%   159%   136%   110%   117%    117%    119%    12%
Woaking Ratio       150%   131%   132%   110%    96%    103%    103%    103%    108%
Net OpertingS Jno   (5.8)   (4.5)  (4.3)   (2.8)   (0.7)   (1.3)   (1.3)    (1.4)   (1.6)
'CS
Opeting Ratio       130%   147%   136%   102%   101%   106%    107%    1OS5    111%
Working Ratio       113%   126%   114%    89%    81%    86%       87%     88%     90%
Ne Op=ing Incom     (4.7)   (6.1)   (4.5)   (0.2)   (0.1)  (0.9)   (1.0)    (1.3)   (1.6)
FC90
Operating Ratio     133%   126%   112%   86%    96%    101%    103%    104%    107%
Wod IgRatio         108%    93%    84%    69%    69%    74%       75%     77%    79%
No Opraing boom*   (1.2)   (1.0)   0.4    0.5    0.1   (0.1)   (0.1)   (0.2)   (0.2)
g-Ra    a.eg  s    to ooetn trfo in the yeam 1994-2000 at thatof 199I, constnt ta    bed on th 199
bvel, and aco  oanly          o e f of  lbbor =&dtion progmaL
* InUSS mlin
: T o us$ b R_
UbOp*g Rato:  Opating Coat   o e y    div      ange.
27.      N     h esuit S      .   Unless some emergw     rehabilitation is performed, raway
operatons would continue losing traffic and come to a halt towds the end of 1996. Whfle it may be
possible to keep cetain lines open for operation, e.g. Cuzco-Quillabamba, th  service would be
reduced to negligible lvelS.  Once raiway operations have temiaed, all remanig staff would
become redundant. The no-investmen sceario assumes that ENAFR would not incur any other
ewpense besides making the required severance payme   at the teminaton of railways services, in
1997. In order to appropriately compare the cost of choosing the no-investment scenario, it I asmed
that the unused investment benf  under the ivestment sceario would be reovered at the end of the
anlysis period in the year 2000, ie., the salvag value of the invetmen equal to the amount of the
toalInstment less accumulaed depredatio   The result of the resutig net cash flow analysis  e
presented in Table 64.
28.    As can be see  from these calculations, the Investment scenario is deady prefered.  Ihe
fnances of the three railways show significant improvements, with an overall finaa rate of retr
(IRR) of 19 percent. This MR is based on the most s e   criteria and, even then, provdes positive
beft from investment. Relaxing any of the asmption, such as includig incresing traffic, would
give ev   higher rests. U must  refore, be pointed out ht the simple diticdon betw             the
Invemen and no-Inestme  sensaios i the differ             betwee  keeping the raioad operatng or



47-                                   ANNEX 6
dosing it down. Based on the above anyses. it is highly benefcial 10 mako the proposed nvt
even i some of the nvemns are considered mas lly profitable, i.e., tt In FCC.
Table 6.4: ENAUER - Cash Flow Analysis
OUS$ thousd)
9       1994     1995      1996      1997     196      1999    2m0
FCC
n Jnvegdjw,n          (2,568)  (,130    (2,035)   (2,0    (3,075)         0       0         0
- With nednt            (2",68)  (3,      (8,104)    (105)     (199)    (5)   (393)    (555)
- Not Benef                 0      (97)   (6,069)    2,115    2,876      55)    ")        (555)
'CS
. Wthout Ine_mnt       (3,407)  (4,017)   (3,381)   (4,037)   (4,75        0       0         0
-  wesb                (3,407)  (3,97    (16,539)    1,728    2,097     1,968   1,752    12,7
- Not Bon                   0       47  (13,158      5,766    6,847     1,98    1,752    123
FCSO
-VWihott Ietment          272      129       361     (180    (1,460)       0       0         0
'Withl vestmwt            272       38   (3,210)      80 17              849     786       661
-Net Bnefit                 0      (91)   (3,571)     990     2,347      849     786       661
KNAUER
- WihoutA wIetmet       (5,703)  (7,018)   (5,5)    (6,48    (95)          0       0         0
- Wtth hlo_ma           (570)  (7,159)  (27,04)    2,433      2,786    2,582   2,145    12,479
- Net Beneft                0    (141)   22,798)    8,871    12,071    2,582   2,14S    12,479
-IaR                      21%
NM   1. Cah flows fw 200 inde eidual vulu of th nvetmet being esdmed.
2. In t cam of no invesme seario, it is and tat KNAUER wMlm o        as of dh ad of 1996.
IRL Fwua Rate of Rdetur based on net ch flow.
29.    The propoed ralway rehabilitation is of an emergewy nature and is packaged as a set of
complemey componens comprising: () loomotives and rolling stock; (h) ways and stuctures; and
CiM) telecom  cations. Tbis package is the technica  minimum neceary to maintain the railways
operational until they are privaized. Theefre, remoig ay one component wiftin the packge has
ihe risk of canceling the ensuing benefits of the remaining investmen   For example, an investm    in
was and stuctures t mpre the condition of track wihou a synchronied nvtme  in locomotive
repairs could contrte to saty problems ad accidents, as well as high track maitenan   and repair
cost, thus reducing the benefit of the mrenue flows which coime frm an invesm     in locomotives
and rolling stock.
30.     .t Tvitv Mal*             Ihe financi  forecast is most likely to be afected by changes in
operatng revenue due to chages in the pasnger and feight  rff  mcure and the respective traffic
volumes, and/or dcanges in opeating expemes due to changes in stf costs. Del  in the payme  of
nd-of-service benefts to staff is likely to slow  don the staff reductio  program  and would
perceptivey affect the ficial forecasL  Likewise, reduction in trffic volume could adversely affect



48-                                ANNEXA
the prqected operating profit. This Is particular tmue of FCC which is epected to operate with high
operating ratios while mainining constant traffic at the 1992 level. On the other hand, a 20 percent
increase in fireight traffic in 1995 for FCC, up to the level which was achieved in 1990, would reduce
the working ratio to 99 percent. The reverse is true as well; however, further decrease in traffic is
anticipated only if the proposed rehabilitation program is postponed. n thbis case, the raflway
operations are expected to come to a halt by 1996.
31.   Similarly, the financial foreasts assume that the average salary would remain const  in dollar
terms. It is quite possible, however, that the increased labor productivity and the raiway privaization
could justify higher salaries. As the personnel costs are projected to average around 34 percent of the
total operating expenses, once ENAFERs labor force has been rationalized, a 10 percent increase in
wages would mean an increase in expenses by merely 3.4 percent. On the other hand, further cuts in
labor force may be possible, thus moderatng the total personnel expenses.
V. Action Strategy
32.   The restructuring of ENAFER is necessary to ensure its eary privatization. To this effect, an
Action Strategy was prepared, the principal objectives of which are to accelerathe admintradve and
operational reforms of the railways, with a view of making them a commercially oriented entity. In
parallel, CEPRI-ENAFER is defining the necessary arrangements for an early privatization of the
railways. Under the Action Strategy, the railways would be re-dimensioned, in tems of labor and
operating assets, to fit their fiture market-oriented role. The Strategy entails primarily the: (i)
voluntary staff retirement program; vii) sale of selected wn-operating assets; (iii) renegotiation of the
collective Union agreements; and iv) orgional rt ting int at least three self-contained
operating units, with the eventual division of ENAFER into legally separate companies.
33.   The staff restructuring plan calls for an adjustment to 1,857 employees in 1994 at a cost of
about US$9.4 million for which ENAFER has requested governmet funding. Other initiatives under
progress include: Q) separation of accounts for the railway systems (regional railways plus Huncayo-
Huancavelica and Tacna-Arica lines) and (ii) identification of the non-operating assets with a schedule
for their sale. However, much remains to be done: establishment of the railway systems into separate
cost centers; deciding on the future of the Huancayo-Huancavelica and Tacma-Arica lines; and
resolution of ENAFER"s outstanding liabilities.
34.   In order to ensure early privatzation of the railways, CEM-ENAFER has retained an
internationally experienced advisor to determine the fiture structure of the railways and to advise It on
the best practices in railway privatizaton. In about May 1994, CEPRI-ENAFER will retain a
cunsulting firm to: (i) evaluate ENAFEt fot privaization, (ii) provide strategic support to CEPRI; (it)
prepare a prospectus with the appropriate infomation, including the promotion of intest for potential
investors; and (iv) prepare tender documents and make al  rngements for isuing these tenders for
the railways' finl privadzation.
VI. The Rehabilitation Program
35. Only about 30 percent of ENAFER's track can be classified as being in good to fair conditon;
the remainder is in poor to very poor condition. Much of the rai is badly wom and is beyond or
approaching the end of its usefil life. Ihe acute shortage of spare parts and genally poor workshop



-9AN                                            6
conditions have contributed to low equipment productivity, especially in the case of loomodves.
Scarcity of spare parts has forced ENAFER to resort to cannibalization of locomotives or to the
production of spare parts in its workhops without industrial precision.
36.    The proposed 1994-1996 emergenc  progrm  alims to msintain the current levels of raiway
operations in order to ensute early privatization of the railways.  'he proposed US$35 million
(including taxes and duties but without contingencies) investment program aims to rehabilia  critial
sections of track and overhaul existing locomotives and wagons and is distributed as fbllowing: 10 per-
cent in 1994; 85 percent in 1995; and 5 percent in 1996. lhe program does not include any
investments for the Huancayo-Huancavelica and Tacna-Arica lines.  Table 6-5 summar_l     the
investment program.
Table 6-5: Railway Investent Program (lSS million)
FCC            L1n     of 4 switba  to doble thei capaky.
2.57    RehabIiation of 10 In of tuck.
Pal weplacemen of ti and baest in 0e -Cp
Provisio of light track maintenan  equproit
Rehdaliation of 5 OaN d 7 ALCO/MLW locomotie.
5.97    Pats and nalateaa  of locomotives.
Repair to 100 wagos.
1.J0   Prvision of a*dio dispatcing sysem.
9.54
i PCS          R       dehabian of 40 km of twk betwee Areq    and Julicau.
12.64   Patial repamt of ties and ballat thughogut FCS
Prvision of lisg trac maitnance euint.
RphMablation of 7 GM and 9 ALCO/MLW kbcomot.
7.60    Pab and tot equ*mn to suppoit numteae of loomoie.
Repair to 120 wagons.
JI      Pwvision of a radio di_pahg system.
21.24
FCSO           Rephaement of 15 km of ul in C 1noMAwhu PiW sec
2.06    Pal rpacement of ies in Cvoo-mulxM  iceu  eon.
Prosio of ghttrak mainoegan  eipent.
1.33    Rh tn of 3 ALCO/MLW loomotives + I rIl cr.
0.79    Pmvison of a radio dispatcig sytem
04         i       and safet stuy.
4.22
Total  35.00



*-                                AN-
37.   It Is esmated that the rep* cost for the 47 locmes (37 for main      service and 10 for
shunting) need to mainn the  rrt levd of seice during 1994-1996 would be US$11.2 million
While 18 of these unit have been etpar  wt fnds from a Japanese grt, US$2.2 million wil be
required for their routie mainteance and scheduled repairs. Repai   d m_n  of the other 29
unis (12 GM locomodves and 19 ALCO-MLW   Bombardier unis) durng 1994-1996 perlod ae
exected to be US$11 million. This progam w   raie the availability of locomotives to 66 perent
and thus make the railway service more reliable.
VI. Environent  Aspet
38.   The physical Ivment included in the proposed aemgenc program will not cause direct
Impacts an the environment, since they only involve reabilion and defed mainena    works.
lTe main e onmental coerns are related to wastewater collection, treame  and solid waste
disposal in woalshops, diesel depot and           units. Tbe proposed program entils the
preparation of a safety study to solve the problem caused by the Waffic of pedestria  along the
switchbacks in Cuzoo. R also calls for the carryi  out of an environma  audt, incuding the
anaysis of the cummt problems and feasibility of various alteav  solutions, in order to recommend
an inegrated progrm of action together with costs to implement it. The privatzadon process wil
afford a vauable opporunity to solve the environmental problems, in pardlar with respect to the
contm ination of workshops and  eding stations. k is important a ths audit be conducted before the
privaizaton tenders are Issued, and that pwspective bidders be infonned of the e mentI Issues.



Railway Emergency Investment Program
P.m.mtwW                      0.25     2.11     015      Z57      4.19    7.22    06       12.4      021      1.75    0.10     206      4.65    11.74      M     1727
r__bsaisqie.               0.05     05       0.04     0.59     1.52     2J3      .23     4.58     0.02     0.14    000  0.1    6      19P    3.47     0.27     533
Swewqiil_ee                0.02     0A.S _ 0          0.38     0.14     026     0.02     0.42     002      06      0h0      0.39     0A.Q   O.S7     04       0.79
_at B                             _0.03  0.11  0.01  _ Q13     0.75     1.41    0.13     2.27     00       00 0.00  0.00 GO7a                 .52     0.12     2.40
0.05    0.31   0.02       0.45     0.45     0.5     0.07     1.37     0.03     0.26    0.02     031      0.53     1.49     0.11    2.13
SwIsbbeb                   Q.07     0.60     0.04     0.71     0.00     .00    o0 .       O  0     .00 0 .00  00.000        0.00     07       0AO     0.04     0.71
Rea _a_odm                 0.05     0.43     0.03     0.51     0.24     0.45    0.04     0.73     0.02     0.35    o03      0.13     0.33     3.03    0O0      3.42
Ran                        00       ono      0.00     0Q0      3.09     2.02    0.36     3.27     0.12     14      O.6      LIZ    1ta        306     022      449
LweaUIweA r*E.e               0 .60 5Q0s        .2s     5.97     4.3      239      038     7.40     0.11      .6      0.06     133     5.54     86     3 0.73 
sen" Eoeomve .m            0.45     SAO      0.22     4.48     4.62    0.54     0.27     5.43     0.10    0.87     00S      1.02     5.17     5.22    0.54    30.93
_p wamesdbb                0.2      1.04     0.6      1.22     0.16     139     O.01     13        .O0     0.00    0o0      0.0      0.       2.43    0.34     2.5
Rebab ntall e00                     0.0      0.0       0 0oo   0.00    0.0      M0       0    o.0  00     0.17     OO    0.37        0.00    0.17     000   0.17
Uj _1 ubie0.                        0.13     "I0    0.27       0.s      0.4     0.03     0.54     0.03     0.32    0.0      0.14     0.09    o0.8     as0      os
raIamnmu~.ae                  01 -0.8o5        0.05      mo       1o lO    35ss    a0       3.00    001      07       0.0     0.79     0.21     2.37     04      2.79
________________   QC0                 o00     0.0   o 0         00       0n      GAon     0.00    0o.0    o0         0o      0.04     0o00    o0A4      00      o
TOTAL               0.95     t0o    0.49       9.54     9.32    11.06    t.06    21.24     Q40     3.62     0.20     4.2    10.4?    22.71     3.7S    35.00
1S   =   (_g4i1u(USS$311lalE4 ~~~~~~~~~~Vsbec19Slpe.
i n i n i n i n                                                                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~
* hiw  59    atdumppr3g(i.t152.mI33m~0 U6umsimin(*atW5.maUin~Vimb.eub.i.3U~m    'd
I.



*   -92-
ENAFER
Jncome Statement 1990-2000
Acal                 Mo.                              Fonrec
1        199                1993     199m9V    199                99?     19m9 1999          2t9
OPERATINO REVEtE             54.017   4395   242         23          434    2404   2.2325    25.3   25X.5   25.325   25.
FteagBt                   37,548   30.622    14.850   tg        11.645    17,456   17.456   17.456   17.406    17,456    17.456
Pem~pi.                    9.199    10,631    7632    6,509       .993    7,609    7,69    70         70       7O9       7.69
odwn                       7,27O    2633      1.787        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Go@VC_cmpoamtinsw              0        0        0         0        0      939       759       59      759        59      759
Unpwiabh savIms
OFRiRATINO EXPENSES          40.822   60200   38776   37.367   33,473   29.194   26.547   2.051t   282           269    29256
Pen rek                   3O0,93   35091   22,410   21,226    17.623   121155   10,354    10,864   11.400   11.962    12453
Sabui                   20.872   22.265   16.920   16.626   13,735    9.481    8.045    8.447    8.869    9,313       9.779
PuIondcaItHka             2.160    4;203    2,58      1.995    a1654    1133       965    1,014    1.064      1.18     L173
Pfmt=mdrda dT&w          5M41      2845      L324    1.052       372      597      523      549       57       605       636
ScsenaceParymU            1.139    2.355    1.410     U8       1149       790      670      704       739      776       815
Oher                       753      423       163      168       168      150      150      ISO      lb       150       150
SuPPlias&4N*U Iso          6A642     8.215    7.894    8.019    7520    8.021    8010    9.34    9.032    3.927         UV927
Fad & Laubdml             4.9S    5J,46     6.153    6;t73    5.779    6;t50    6.230    $3S6       53652    5,527    5.27
M.tsial                   1.647    2.669     1741     1741     1.741    1.741    1.730     5.400    3,400    3.409    3.400
Miia^ffiautic                543      241      214       214      214      214       t7O      170      170       17G      170
D.baMiai3"                 3.341   10.461   S563        5.996    5A660    4.495    4.905     5.012    4995    4.989    4.935
CoauscbaalSsvi=s           2,54    3.192    2.395    2.412    2.451    4309    3.108    24S39    2.621    2621    2.621
Not Opadrnglema               4,194  (16.264)  (12.50)  (12.490)  (IOK3)     ,) .I)    (722)   (2 )   (413)  (2U44)   (3.431)
RA,TlOS
WcukhagRuio                  76%      113%     125%     126%      119%      95%      84%      89%       90%      92m      949
Op..ig Rato                  92%      137%     148%     149S      143%     112%     103%     109%      109%     111%      113%
Newfsu Lw   w                     0        0        0         0    3.520   29.790    1.750         0        0         0        0
Wa a& Sbw                     0        0         0        0     1,980   16.730      980        0        0         0        0
RoUhisck                       0        0        0         0     1.540    13060      770        0        0         0        0
Av Nv N fEmp&y.o               5.39     5.A2     4,494    4,414    3.479    2276    1.857       1.1.8    1185?
Fbwglow OL Thu.Km            493      440       338      434      399      399       399      399       399      399      399
Pasuumw(WL as)               469      320       222      177      167      222       222      222      222       222      222
Fh4ht CM= Tom)              1.729    1.506     ,359     U552     1,395$ 395           9      1395     1395      1395     1.395
Pamagu5(Thouji             3ll28     2.269    1,680      U13     1680    1,60    1,680       1.68O    1,680    1.680    1.680



93-                                               AMM6
Cental Ralwy (FCC)
Income Statement 190-2000
AeNd                  SO =a
19u6 m            J 1m   tm -                    10    196   cm   199m  199 -- 1W
OPERAATINREVENtES               20        1,12      6."31     8         725        12       7M        719       71.?9     7U 9      7.59
Ftd                          17.20      9,717    5,2       7,640      /12      612       612       612       612       65        6.12
PI-is572                                12         75          3       753       753       753       753       i5        73        73
063                           259       1.164      "4          0         0         0         a         0         0         0         0
OoeCir                           0         0         0         0         0       44?       330       530        30       330       330
OPERATINO EXPENSES             222345    19.571    12.4    12.32    1157         10.07      825       8.54       S94      9.        9.229
PWSmd:                       13,042    12.617  2 167       6.94        962     4.063     3.44      5.614     3.2       397       41
SIia                        V?.30     9.151    S.3        5W       46        3.163     266       2W9       2.950     39         .2
Pe &Htlh                     801      t,336      763       6$6       $39       380       321       337       354       372       390
Pe-auldTu"                  2,143     1,185      413       35        303       206-      174       183       192       201        11
p^.-urRitmn.                 728       in        457       456       388       264       223       234       246       25        27
OO                           636       183        I        Si        SR        $I        S1        51        5I        51        51
sum A vauM ah                 1 8       2.0      2.4       2.68       t621       21      261       3.20      3.198      .49      3.149
Fad&Luhrmab                 1.3       1.71S    2.311     2.790     2,2       2.442     2,442     2,2         I       2.149       2149
mazl                         334       490       179       179       179       179       379     1,000     1,000      S,000     1.00
170       9        1o        1to       11o       11o       11o       Io        110       11o       Ito
Dqime6il6305                          31706     22        1,71      151    2011          1055     1,060     14        L4        1,4
OmItiagu Suvb.                 958       951       464       8"9       930     1."       1.09        750       750       710       750
NoOpmag las.                    (1.981)   (7446)   (5.763)   (4.55)   (42"       (2,735)     (       ( 9)   (12)   (457)   (.3
RATIOS
Wow"gRado                      79%      131%      150%      131%      132%      110%       96%      103%      10%      10%       103%
Opw   Ra ti.                  110%      161%      183%      154%      10%       136%      110%      117%      117%      119%      122%
ewl_aumft                           0         0         0         0       870     7,330       430         0         0         0         0
Wsp&Sbusa                        0         0         0         0       270     2.2Q        130         0         0         0         0
410mos * 1a0                          0         0         0       o00      500        300         0         0         0 
AvM 4. N..      gh7w             1.955     USS       1.459    1,435     1.8         764       615       615       615       615       615
F1dM(MM Tmg                    192       166       1S2       191       163       113 163             la        163       163       163
PMOW_Mlw*                       Is        54        35        35        3         35        35        35        35        33 35
F     TW&M .Tam)               913       850       573     1.080       814        14       814       814       814       814       814
PuarntT M.)                   1.104      712       S          44       544       $44        44       544       44        544       S44
*bik,emWmN_11Eh_



94-                                                   AXA 6
Southeem Railway (FCS)
IUcome Statement 1990-2000
Actuld                 RBt.                                   Forecast
1990   199a    urn    o                 -n t99<    1995   teu    tm                tn    Irn    2003
OPERATWO REVENG                   29.44      27,M      I8         13.097    120754    14262    14.709    14.79         W7        14.739    1479
Fa'oi#A                        19,943    20,5       1133    10*          10         10.4    10.64    I0            106        1o06      20.664
uw_                             4,M        5.0       3.70       2149      Z09       3,706      3.7        3,0         7M       37        3,7
o0h                             4,738       468      1,23          0          0         0          0         0          0         0          0
GuCoA aauli_ m                      a         0          0         0          0       492        429       42         429       429        429
U1amS6 nm
OPRAMThO    PENSU                 20.763    31,S61    20.580    19,218    17.298    15.088    14,932    IS.716    1S825    16,054    163"6
P.u    t                       13,273    19,783    1167    10,850         9.08S5    6,333      5.480      5,753     6.039      6,340     6.656
Satiu                         9.012    14,824      8,776      8539      7,148      4.978     4.301      4.520     4.746      4,983     5.233
Pw    &NI                     U4         2335      1,309      1,02        858       $97        517        42        570       598        628
paA !   i_lded Tam            2.419      1.34        851       555        465       324        280       294        308       324        340
Srevmoo PAYuMM                 7U1       1,2X6       731       712        596       41         3S9       377        396       415        436
othw                             2t        34         19        19         19        19         19         19        19         19        19
sp"&Mdh                         4,102      U,227     4.8t6     490       4,315     4,817      4,817      5,304     S,141      S,075      .01"
h      d    e &Ludo           2955       3.3tO     3.267     2,841      2.766     3.267      3.267      3.104     2,941      2,875     2875
6tokhk                       21.147      1.857     14         15         ,5        1.49      1,549      2,200     2.200      2.2       20
Adhtails                          286        93         47        47         47        47         47        47         47        47         47
Dap      a                      1,877      5.116     2.714     2714       2.74       1,878     2,931      3.013     3,013      3.007     3,003
CosUashIaSWIM                    12        1,583     1,316      1,217     1,137     2,013      1,658      1,599     1.585      1,585     1,585
NOp.aU Imui                        867       (420)    (4.715)   (6,1)  (    (4,)        (227       (133)      (an6)    (a0       (,5        (1,67)
WOIkl.gUatI.                      64%       97%       113%      126%      114%        89%-       81%       86%        87%        88%       90%
71%      116%      130%       147%      136%       102%       101%      106%       107%      108%       111%
i _e1av~~                         0         0          0         0      2,140    18,190      1,070         0          0         0          0
w    paya& sbwtuv0                            0          0         0      1,8      1,730        690         0          0         0          0
RolllagItusk                        0         0          0         0       760      6.460        380         0          0         0          0
ANwWNA qflAVa4                     2514    2456        2,242      2,182     1,739      1,154       950       950        950       950        90
VFinisTiL  tm                     302       270        232       238        232       232        232       252        252       22         252
PswaoarLw)                        28         14        126        73         71       126                  126        126        126       16
Fml8Iith    Tom)                  720       as         54        496        55         45        S45        545       545         45       s4
P4 u-   wCIhCu)                 1,194       910        52        319        562       562        562       562        562        562       562
o1wuabj.ed E



-95-                                            AN
South-Eastem Railway (FCSO)
.acome Statement 99-2000
*  Aetual            Lit.                              3Fore
1990     1991      199      1993      *99      1995     1996      199      1998      1s99     20o
OPERA71NO REVENU               421      428    3,473    37    3,430    3,430    3,4              3,430    34        3,430    3,40
Fu*t                          341      383       2S8      280      30        280      280       280      20        280      2
P_en                        3,8 3,8   3,834    3.167    3,607    3,110    3,150      3,150    3.130    3,150    3,150    3.150
Oa=                             3        I        17        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
aOVCouiyasali our               0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
U*rftb.Ser'Ao
OPERATINO El    ENSES          3,297    7,244     4,630    4.905    3.833    2,954      3,289    3.481    3,519     3,582    3,60
P.omnmd:                    3,647    4,561     2,946    2,188    2.074     1636      1430      1,497    1568    t.643       ,721
Salaies                   2,421     3,430    2.195     2.1335     572    1,014     1,0S4     1118     ;174      1232     1,294
Prns&  He"ath               218      441       462      256       189      122       128      134       141      148       155
PnOnneurblatedTxe*          780      264        26       139      102       66        69       73        76       80        84
S.ver3ePayu2mou             202      286       183       178      131       84        89        3        98      103       108
Qiher                        26       140       80       80        80       80        80       80        80       to0       S0
S&pliqe* & l64his            651       773       57       650      573       m        573       742      714       702      702
Fuad&Lbricabn               505      461       575      648       571      571       571      $42       514       22 502
mateids                     146      312         2        2         2        2         2      200       200      200       200
AdzniaUdaa                      6       3         13       13        13       13        13       13        13       13        13
Depresiati                    594     1,541      864     1;289     972       584      919       938      938       938       938
Coatacta Sebvices             399      335       231      165      223       419      354       290      286       2?6       286
Nde Open*augIa@na             (1.09    (3006)   (1,158)   (1.017)    (425)      476      141       (51)      (89)    (152)    (230)
RATIOS
WoddkgRahi                   112%     133%      108%      93%       84%      69%      69%       74%       75%      77%       79%
Opeaig Raio                  126%     171%      133%     126%      112%      86%      96%A    101%       103%     104%      107%
NawIvmfi.n1nc                     0         0        0         0      510    4.270       250         0        0         0        0
Ways & Stuctomw                 0        0         0        0      330    2,740        160        0         0        0        0
WingSotock                     0         0         0        0       180    1,530       90         0        0         0        0
Avwroge N& ofba*phyms           799       726      697       678      476       292      292       292      292       292      292
FrhightMiLTm     )              4        4         5        5        S         5        5         5         5        5        5
Paueqe(MILPXi)                 98       72        61       69       60        60       60        60       60        t0       60
FFdght(flmLTOMu)              36        32        36       36       36        36       36        36       36        36       36
PaasatprCfloL)                82       647       574      650      574       574      574       574      574       574      574



W                                  ANNA 7
PERU - Transport Rebabliltafon Project
BEHABZRON OF LIMA AIMRPIT RUNWAY
SU]MMARY
1.    The airsie pavements of Jorge Chavez International Aitport in Lima are in urgent need of
rehabilitation to ensure the safe and unobstructed continuation of aircraft operations. Pardcular attention
must be paid to the 3,507 meter long runvay, although the taxiways and aprons also require major
remedial works.
2.    Mhe pavements were built around 1960, and their design was thus based on aircraft loads
anticipated at that time. The rehabilitation works wil allow for a structural upgrading of the pavement
section to sadsfy the projected 20 year lifetime of the new pavements, based on established parameters.
Engineers contrcted by the Intemational Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) prepared the final design
for this project component which includes the following:
a.    Rehabilitaion of runway 15-33, Indluding exits B, C, D and E and new airfield lighting
system (ALS Cat. D1): US$11.65 million.
b.    Rehabilitation of the parallel taxiway: US$10.1 million
C.    Constructionspervision: US$2.5 million.
3.    Tie tota construction works will be carried out by a gener  contractor with adequate
trnaal exper,Ience in similar works. The estimated duration of the overal constuction contract is
15 month. Duig the 6 months needed for the runway rehabilitation itself, all aircraft operations will
have to be cancelled for about 8 hours every night.
4.    Supervision of the construction will be performed by a qualified consulting firm with international
eperience in the construction and rebabilitation of airport runways. Both the consultant and the general
contractor shall closely coordinate all aspects of the runway rehabilitation works with the airport authority
CORPAC, in order to facDitate aircraft operations and other ongoing aiport operations without undue
restrictions.
S.    MTCC intends to prequalify general contractors while the tender documents are being prepared,
thereby reducing the timespan between submsion of tender documents and signing of the construction
contract
PROJECT DESCIPTION
6.    Ihe scope of the dvil works assodated with the runway includes the following:
-     Convening preconstruction conferences, drawing up a detailed plan of operations,
approving work pracdtes and asphalt mbiture(s), arranging security measures and
assembling equipment.



97-                                A
Preparing joints and cracks in existing onc    pavement prior to overaying, inaluding
removing asphalt layer which had bee placed on about one third of runway.
Construcdng asphalt concrete overlay of 220mm nomina thickness on 45m wide runway,
in lifts of maximum 100mm. The fina course shall be maximunm SOmm thiclk
Placing fiber-glass reinforcement grid on fim asphalt layer.
Providing at the end of each work period tmprary visual ads, i.e. marn  and lights,
constucting a taition ramp, cleaning up work area and removing equipment outside
air movement areas.
Reconstructing 7.5m wide paved shoulders and widening where needed.
Constructng runway end safety areas, including 90m long paved blastpads.
Reconstructing runway strip to conform with ICAO Annex 14 standards for precision
approach runway Category L
Constructing asphalt concrete overlay on connectors B, C, D and E and on holding
aprons 15 and 33 up to 75m from runway centerline, which includes provisional
transition ramps with eaxstg concrete pavement.
Installing new and modifying exisdng undergrund provisions for airfield lihting (APL)
facilites, viz. ducting, bases.
Applying reflective white runway pavement marking.
7.    The scope of the airfield lighting works includes the following:
Dismanding existng center and edge lights and cleaning.
Installing new AFL cables, SOOOV, including trenching and backfilling, thereby possibly
udlizing available cables in CORPAC store.
Placing available light fixatres on nmway edge, centerline and dweshold/end bases.
Modifying approach lighting system on runway 15.
Replacing visua approach system (VASIS) on runway 15 by avble new precision
approach part indicator (PAPI) units.
Adjusting exisig PANI and runway end indicator light system (REILS) on runway 33.
Modifying existing or providing new AFL mimic panel.



-98-                               ANN?I
-     Miscellanous work In AFL equipment buiding, Incuding replacing existg const
curt regulatrs (CCR) by new avaiable CCRs, cabling etc. All quipment to Isal
In building at new location.
-      lghlWt tsftg and
S.    Iho scope of the wwr   modated with the txiwa Indes the foln.
-     Contrcting Portland Cemen Concree ovelay, width 22.5m, desig thicmnss 350mm,
on parallel taxway A from apron to holding apr  15 ad on parlde tauiway F from
apron to holding aprm 33.
-     Prior to concrte overlay, prparn  edsdag concrete surface and laying a bituminous
leveling course of 50 mm.
=     Rooonsthucting d axiway asphalt souders (10.75 wide) and reworking tdway strip.
Rdocatg axiay edge lights and om           stem of taxiw  lhtng.
Applying yellow tdway marng.
PAVEM   ENGINENG CONCEP
9.    -he enghiners conacted by ICAO dedeope te following pavement design concept for runway
15 -33.
(a)    Apply a minimum asphalt ovelay of 220 m  nomnal thicness on t  existing runway
concret pavomL  h proposd pavement mode is:
-     Asphalt concrete overay          220mm
-     Existdng concrete sb             300m
-     Granular bse CBR 80%             300m
-     On subgade CMBR 12%
Ob)   In order to reduce the likelihood of reflecdton cracks, the joints and cracks (wider than
6 mm) shall be properly teted and a fiber-glss  nr       grid  all be placed on
the first asphalt layer.
(c)    Design a 'kewdi typical secdon, thereby reducing the asphalt overlay thickness on the
eastn outebae, to minimum 130mm at the edge.
(d) lhe tender documents may give the opto  to consder the alternaive method of
rehabilitating the nmway by constucting an asphalt oveday of 230 mm on pounded and
seaed concrete slabs.



1|    X    6             
i7i                        I             *,,i     : g I01  051i' f   ti



-100-                                      A NNEX7
APPROXIMATE COST ESTIMATE FOR CONSTRUCTION AND SU                                    N
12.    The cost esmates presented below  are based on fina  tecbnical designs and estimates of
construction quanites:
1. Upgaf R-M 1s0
1.1 Aqphak ov3rly of nom    22.0 mm, ieL LAt minforenl                                  6,30,000
12 ko ueain sholdfen (7.5 m) ad bbltd  (60 x 90 tn)                                    1,050,000
1.3 Reprofihn ovos and sarip                                                              150,000
1.4 Ahlt ovea  of 2noina 20 mm an co_ns B, C, D and E, incWing fabric                   1,600,000
1.5 Aplt ovay of naudi 220 mm on holding apin 15 and 33, inluin abic                    1,100,000
1.6 Madp aon pamama                                                                       250,000
1.7 Airfild rUghda woalam, 60X:iob                                                      I,W,"
- CAT B rsyii on inway,         CORPAC qipment
to AFL taways
-  mdn   q     t ;stmU
Modg Wimd -
1.8 CfHlwo w   A PedtoL                                                                   200.040
RofRmtWon of Runway:                                   USS11,650,COo
2  Upgadifg TAways A ad F
2.1 Asalt lv1ling coum                                                                    850,00
2.2 Potlnd CWmn   ooMn PAA  Of 350 mm thichs                                            7,150,000
2.3 R1    motins hOwdr (10.75 m)                                                        2.100
TOt Cantruedon Works:                                  US$21,750,000
3. Svpwrvlom of Comtu0n Wors                                                         USS2
TOTAI;                                                 US24,250,000



-101-                               ANNE 7
PREQUALIFICATION OF CONSTRUCTION Flu
13.   UisIg the Banks  adard prquallficatlon doments for cvil works contators, the following
guidel   will be observed for preselecting t _nder  for the nway rehablation projec at Lima
tatdonal Airport:
(a)    'he General Contor (O.C.) shl have e eric  with construction works on opational
(b)    The assigned project manager all assume fAll responsibit for the consotcton works, thareby
closely coordinating all aspects of the project with the responsibl enoginer assigned by the
Airport Audiority of MTCC. G.C.'s construction mange shal have a mimum of 15 years
exeience in similar projects.
(c)    The runway rehabilitation wok shall be executed during off-peakt dmes, i.e., the nihtme hours
between 10:00 PM and 6:00 AM  whereby In prinple a minimum of eight hours wil be
avalable for construction works to the runway. The G.C. shl take into account thA emergency
8situato  may occur, resuling In reduced work periods.
(I)    Hot/mix aphalt concrete shall be usd for the recntructin of the runwa pavement The
capacity of the prime asphalt plant sbhl be minImm 225 tons per hour, and of the second plnt
minimum 75 tons per hour. Both asphalt plant shall produce simulneously an asphlt mixture
Of simnar dedgm in order to ensure a unftm and regular supply to the finishing equipmet on
the ruway. The hauing trucks hal hve   tble cover to protec the mix from advers
weather. Two bitm    pay, hav dut typ, wih minimum S.Om paing width shall be
provided. Eah paver shall be equipped with automatic grde contol. Four roUers, steel and
pneIc tdred type, dshll be prvided for the compaction of the asphalt layers. The overdll
weight of one of the pneumatic tired wllers sall be at least 25 tons. !he estimated quantity of
ssphalt concrete required for the nmway is about 40,000 cubic meters.
(e)    The G.C. shill at all times ad    to the operationda safety procedures requiked to ensure safety
and security during the off-peak construcdonL The following main topics shoud be emphasized
in this resect:
a     Safety meetings shal be held and a safet plan will be prepared.
b.    Cleady marked truck bhl rtes shal be located.
C.    Obstruction lighting and barricades shall be placed.
d.    Staging area wil be assigned for eoquipment and mateials.
0.    Constuction equipment shall be parded outside the air movement areas (I00m away from
rwnw   edges) durig aircraft opatin.
(t)    At the end of each work period, the G.C. shall construct a (dowslope) transition ramp over the
fAll 45.Om width, apply tmporay pavement maring, provido portable lighting and clean up the
Wok area.



-102-                                       7
(g)   In general, the G.C. must consider those factors and sball follow those procedures which are
needed to ensure quality costuction, while mdntning a safe operating environment. In
addition, excessive aircraft delays shall be avoided and arcraft operations will have priority over
onstruction o   ons.
(h)   lhe O.C. shall funih satisfactory evidence of his/her competence to perforn the proposed work.
Such evidence shall consist of stements covering past experience on similar work, financial
responsibility and of lists of equipment and key personnel available for the project.
(i)    The period for executing the works Is 15 months. Upon completion, a warranty/maintenance
period of one year is applicable.
MAINTEANCE CONSIDERATIONS
14.   In opeating and maintang the aiport pavements, the managers and the maintenance department
a continually faced with problems involving pavement distress and deterioration. The deterioration
proces is mainly caused by the weathering effect and the action of aircraft traffic and actually begins
immediately upon completion of the reconstruction works to runway and taxiway. Normal distresses in
the pavement strucue result from suface weathering, fatigue effects, differenti  movement in the
underlying bases over several years and, in addition, from poor construction techniques and the use of
substndard materials. A comprehensive maintenance program should be developed to define a systematic
roah to both preventive and remedial maintenance works.
15.   A study will be conducted under the project to develop such a program and to strengthen
CORPAC's capacity to undertake maintenance at Lima airport. The main output of this study will be
an action plan to be completed by the Medium Term Review of the project, that will be followed by
CORPAC to ensure proper methods and funding allocations for maintenance at Lima airport.
CONdMUCIION SUPEVISON
16.   The basic services rendered for the supervision of the construction works will include the
following activites:
Providing consultation and advice to the Authority (TCvC and CORPAC) during the
construction works.
-     Coordinating sheite  alotls and safety measures.
Reresg the Authority at pre-constructdon conferences.
Supevising the ongoing works and providing progress reports.
Reviewing and approving shop drawings and material/equipment proposals submitted by
the General Contracor, for compliance with the design and specifications.
Reviewing, analyzing and approving laboraoy and field test reports of proposed or
constructed materals.



-103-                                AN=E  7
Preparing and negotlating change orders and other agreements.
-     Reviewing and approving the interim payment certiflcates and submitting the statements
to the paying Authority.
-     Conducting final inspections and submitting reports on outstanding or remedial works to
the Authority.
-     Reviewing and approving As-Built drawings and submitting them to the Authority.
-     Finalizing construction contract and participating in the handover procedures.
17.   In view of the nature of this delicate project, construction supervision will be carried out by -
qualified and internationally experienced consuting firm. The terms of reference for construction
supervision will specitf which of the following provisions are on the account of the supevision consultant
and which ones shall be furnished by the general contractor:
a.    Field laboraory, survey and test equipment.
b.    Field office, including furniture and equipment.
C.    Office and field services.
d.    Transportation.
e.    Housing facilities.
It is probable that the General Contractor will be responsible for providing items a, b and c. This will
have to be specified in the tender documents for the construction works. The supervising consultant
would then include in his offer the costs for items d and e. The consultants' supervisory team should
Include five technical specialists (Senior Resident Engineer, civil engineer, material engineer, electrical
engineer, and quantity surveyor) and support staff.



-104-                                 NE 
PERU -   napor Rehab}litaton Prtject
pIU)TPROICT FOR                                    IN-aOlZDTANPR     LE^
Badound.
1.    The Municipality of Mopolitan Lima (MLM) has defined a plan for th increased use of the
bicycle as an alternative traUsport mode, especily for work trips. T   plan for promotig the use of
bicycles wa announcced in August 1990 by Decree 159. During -th elaboration of the plan (1991-
1992) by the Metropoln Planing Institute  stituto Metropolitano de Panlficacln - IMP),
planning areas wre identified and analyzed for suitability in prmoting the bicycle. Tbis plan, Plan
intega de transporte veular no motorizado y construccin de cIclovas* provides the bads for the
construction of cycle-ways.  Withi this context, the non-motorized tansport component of this
project prepares the ground for expaning the use of an environmentally friendly and affordable
transport mode in a pilot area of Lima.
2.    Public transport service to the low-income area is iregular, has insufficient capacity or is
non-existing, especially to new settlements of the poorest. Furthermore, low income groups spend a
ubstntl part of their income on transport, while the economic crisis results in an increasing
number of people living in extreme poverty.
3.    The population of Metre: !itan Lima grew from 3.2 million in 1972 to 6.5 million in 1993.
More than 50 percent of the population has a low (US$208) or very low (US$80) income. These
inome groups spend an average of 12 pecent of their income for transport, but for some of the
poorest this is estimated to exceed 25 percen   The montly incomes at the household level are
shown in Table 8-1 below:
Table 8-1: MONTHLY HOUSEOLD  NCOM    IN LIMA
.Sbst    Eoushod Distdbutio.  Avmp Moty boomo in USS
Veay igh I                  1.98%                 3,000
1gb a                      2.63%                   1,3
Modim m                    33.31%                  676
LOwI                       26.71%                  283
V.y low V                  2S.34%                  s0
id. Prant 1989
4.    All urban transport in Lima is by road.  Irffic congestion, with resultant delays for
passeners and goods, and excessive ful use contributing to poor air quality are common. Accident
ratew are also high. Recen accident analyses have indicated tha about 70 percent of fatal accidents
involve vehicle-pedestrian incidents.  Ihe main cause of this problem is mi ement and
inefficient use of road space, including poor signing and channelization, and uncoordinated and often



-105-                                 ANN13X8
non-functioning traffic signals. The provision for non-vehicular traffic In Lima is poor, bicycles,
other perambulator vehicles for trade, pedestrians all contribute to the confusion and congestion in
road use.
5.    Public transport in Lima often does not cover the outlying areas where low-income groups
live. The increasing transport demand of these people is characterized by their inability to afford
private transport means. They depend on inadequate public transport services which, because of the
long trip lengts involved, often cause a financial burden for regular commu ..
6.    Ihe antiquated bus fleet is being replaced by relatively new (3-S years), privately owned
microbuses. Despite fierce competition, high operating and maintenance costs result in relatively high
f3res. Affordability for the poor is worsened by a tariff structure which requires an extra payment for
a transfer between buses. The growing demand for cheap transport in the oudying areas cannot be
met and existing public transport services are limited and unreliable. Expenditures on public transport
(US$ 15-30 monthly) compared to an average monthly income of less than US$280 for half of the
population demonstrate the urgent need for alternative solutions.
7.    ThhI population is young: 63 percent are younger than 30 years, and 40 percent are between
10-29 years old, with an increasing demand for transportation. Most of this demand is in the outlying
mrea of the metropolitan region, made up of low-income districts such as San Juan de Lurigmcho,
Comas, Independencia, San Martfn de Porres, Callao, Villa Marfa del Triunfo, San Juan de
Mira-lores and Villa el Salvador. A survey conducted as part of project preparation1 showed that 88
percent of the young workers would be willing to use the bicycle for work trips. At present, only 2
percent of (all) workers travel by bicycle to their job.
8.    Lima's transport pattern is strongly influenced by a 'motor culture' of cars and buses. Bus
and car drivers exert an aggressive behavior over pedestrians and the occasional cyclists. Recent
tauport statistics simply ignore non-motorized vehicles. The vehicle fleet in 1989 consisted of about
500,000 automobiles and 10,000 buses, microbuses and taxis. It is clear that an increased use of
motrized transport will present the municipality not only with a growing demand for expensive road
infrastructure aso with environmental problems. A strategic policy to encourage bicycle use may be
an important part of the future solution. However, two major factors constrain the use of bicycles at
present:
(a)    The high price of bicycles (ranging from US$160 to US$300) and no access to credit
for the poor to purchase bicycles; and
(b)   the absence of safe bicycle ways.
9.    MLM inroduced a program of cycling promotion trough the Metropolitan Investment Fund
(WNVME1). This program extends up to the year 2010 and includes (i) construction of bicycle
ways; (i1) provision of low cost credit for the purchase of bicycles; (iii) provision of low cost
bicycles; and Civ) education and public relations campaigns. The most important medium-term
objective of this plan is to reach a 10 percent share for bicycles in daily trip distribution by 1999, to
achieve a more balanced and sustainable development of urban transport.
13ESeta de opbn a empleadors y trabajadores sobr traponhe no morWao (opinion survey of employers and
workers on non-motorized asWot), prepared by CuSnto S.A., Lima, July 1993



-106-                                ANNEXK
Componet Description.
10.   In support of the MLM  policy to provide a well-balanced transport rystem, the project
includes the construction of about 51 kn of dedicated bicycle ways, and the reconditioning of existing
seri  roads to create 35 km of bicycle lanes. The paths will connect low- and middle-income
residentWal areas to an industrial zone and will (i) complement the existng u     trbasport system with
a cheap, energy efficient transport mode and (i) increase accessibility to low-income residential areas.
It  estdmated that personal travel cost by bicycle are less than half those of bus travel. Beneficiaries
are thus primarily the poor who cannot afford the relatively high bus fares. It is unikely, however,
that bus travel will decrease, given the continuing population growth of Greater Lima. Ihe project
also includes provision of credits to purchase low-cost bicycles, provision of parking facilities, and
educational and promotional campaigns.
11.   Map 1BRD 25105 shows the pilot area which includes an industrial area with 8,984 employers
(including micro-enterprises) and about 70,000 employees. Of these, 72 percent are going to work by
bus or mini-bus, 4 percent by car, 2 percent by bicycle, and 22 percent walk. The workers are
mosty residing in CaUlao (17 percent), Lima-center (16 percent) and Brefla (12 percent). The origin-
destiation data indicate that the proposed network of bicycle ways would offer, at least for a
substantial pordon of the commuting trip, a convenient and relatively safe alternative to over 70
pecent of the workers in the pilot area.
Mm Pilot Network.
12.   The pilot network of bicycle ways extends over 45 km of main road, along the following
arteras:
(a)    Avenida Colonial (east-west in the industrW zone);
(b)   Avenida Universitaria (north-south and connecting residential areas with the industrial
zone);
(c)    Avenida Tupac Amaru; and
(d)    Avenida Tomis Valle which connects the two preceding avenues.
13.   Total costs of the bicycle ways are estimated at US$2.6 million, including construction, 5
percent for final design and 2 percent for supervision. Although the designers were charged with
mimizing costs, safety for eyclists is one of the main design criteria. The alignment of the bicycle
ways follows existing corridors and, as far as possible, existing paved service roads. At junctions,
standard crossing details will be adopted, so that cyclists and motorists will become familiar with
them. The bridge over the Rimac river will need widening to assure safety for bicycles. This
widening will require coordinated action of ISW, INVERMET and MLM to solve the resettlement of
about four affected ifrmal micro-enterprises.
Proisdon ot Low-Cost Credit.
14.   Ihe prvision of low-cost credit for the purchase of bicycles is a high priority to ensure that
low-income groups have access to affordable mobility. Over time, effective mechanisms have been



-107-                                ANEj
devdoped for providing fiancial sevices of tfis type. Results of the socio-onomic sunrey show
that 67 percent of the men and 57 perct of the women  iewed would want to trvel by bicycle
if they possessed one. More than 80 percent of the medium and large enterprises in the survey area,
represening about 50,000 workers, would support such a credit system and are willing to consider
salary deduction schemes to facilitate credit repayment.
15. The proposed loan will provide credit facilities up to US$600,000 through a revolving fund.
The credits will be for 12 months and for a maximum amount of US$91 which enables provision of
approximately 17,800 credits during the first 24 months of the credit scheme. The principal
objectives of the credit scheme are to:
(a)    enable the poor to purchase a bicycle, thus increasing their mobility and reducing their
transport costs; and
(b)    mutroduce popular, low-cost bicycles through credit conditions (maxinum bicycle price
of US$100 including tax) which will create demand in this market segment.
16.   The success of the credit scheme will depend on the effectiveness of all stakeholders in
competently and successflly handling their roles. The Caja Municipal de Credito Popular de Lima
(CMCPL) will be the custodian of the credit funds. It will periodically submit reimbursement
requesu for subloans satisfying the requirements of the CMCPL Directive (see para 19 below).
Credit applications will be processed through local CMCPL agencies and by using approved Non-
Govemmental Organizations (NGOs) and medium-sized and large enterprises as intemediaries.
17.   Through memoranda of understding with CMCPL, enterprises in the Llma-Callao industrial
area can participate in the credit schemes, thereby supporting bicycle purchase by their employees,
with intrest and loan repayments being effected through monthly wage deductions. The critria for
eligibility wfll include (i) registration as a corporate entity, (ii) location in the pilo4 area, (Wii) fmancial
credibility, and (iv) managerial capability.
18.   While Peru has one of the largest numbers of NGOs anywhere in the world, most of them
seem to lack the instutional capacity and flnancial expertise to implement credit schemes.  A
nationally operating NGO will be invited to paricipate as an observer in the credit scheme with the
objective of training an organization for eventual replication of this concept on a broader scale.
Based on a memorandum of uanding, CMCPL could provide training in bookkeeping and
project admiistraton  the selected NGO. Eligility criteria for the NGO to be selected will be:
(a)    National Character: registration of NGO  as a corporate entity, office
or representation in the pilot area, intefaction of NOO with other
associations, degree of community recognition.
(b)    Experience: track record in similar undertakings, previous dealings
with donors, experience in dealing with financial institons.
(c)    Financial Credibility: record with financial insttions.
(d)    Managerial Capability: ability to develop effective plans and to
implement monitoring and evaluation systms supporting the program,
ability to select potential beneficiaries.



-108-                                ANEX 8
19.   As a condition of disbursements for bicycles under subloans, CMCPL Is preparing an
Operational Directive for CMCPL staff and a Contract Model, both to be acceptable to the Bank,
which will include the following elements:
(a)    credit beneficiary obligations
-     iforOmation on beneficiaries personal data
-     at purchase, information on credit subject (bicycle)
-     during credit period, relevant information on credit subject mutations (e.g.
bicycle theft).
(b)    credit evaluation
-     collateral definidon
-     definition of commission costs, insurance costs and interest rates
-     coordination with intermediaries (employers, NMOs).
(c)    credit recovery
-     time schedule of repayments
-     terms of repayment.
(d)    operational characteristics
-     places to apply for credits
-     places to repay credits.
20.   CMCPL will prepare and submit quarterly progress reports to MLM  and the Project
Coordination Unit.  These reports will include data regarding (D) number of credits to formal
employees, (ii) mnmber of credits to the informal sector, (iii) total amount of outstanding credits, and
(iv) status of credit recovery, both for the formal and informal sector.
Availability of Biycles.
21.   The success of the pilot project will depend considerably on the availability of Inexpensive
bicycles. Peru has an existing bicycle import and assembly industry and bicycle spare parts are
readily available from well stocked shops. At this moment, however, minimum market prices are
relatively high and vary from US$160 to US$200. Experience elsewhere shows that low-end, durable
bicycles should be available for less than US$100. The project's credit program will enable low-
income residents to purchase a bicycle of their own choice in the low-price range up to US$100
(including value added tax). Direct import of bicycles by MLM was considered but this would have
limited the buyers' choice and complicated warranty and reparation unnecessarily.
Education and Promotion Campaign.
22. The promotion and education regarding bicycle use will be targeted at community centers,
schools and factories situated within the pilot area.  The promotional program  will include
information on the availability of bicycle credits, and on how to apply. Audio-visual techniques,
pamphlets, and handouts will be primarily employed. MLM will develop terms of reference for this
campaign which will be subject to Bank approval.



Repordug and Monltring.
23.   'he implementation of physical imprve, the credit system  and the ptomotiond
ca g  wJII flow a number of benchmwk dates. Monitoring consultants will be enaed to
collect and aalwy  the data on a systematic basis. MLM will prpare quaterly progress reports to
provide infoDaIon on project implemenion, biglightng issues and problem  areas and
recommending actin.  Spedfic monitoring indicators wfll be (D) progress of bicycle way
cnstructin, (u) povision of credits, (iii) etmates of the expected incase of usage of cycle ues,
(Iv) Identification, in the pilot area, of the overall increase of the use of the bicycle as a mode of
transport for low-income groups, and (v) descripfion of taffic behavior and road safety on the bicycle
routes. Ihe monioring values, which are to be defned by mid-1994, will cotiute an important
bput ino the developmet of an itegrated Bicycle Network Plan, mentioned in Annex 9.



-110-                                ANN  C9
PERU - Trasport Rehabilitation Project
TE CAL ASSISrANCE
I. POLICY ISSUES AND COMPONENT OBJECTIVE
1.    Poicy mles: The most importan policy issues emerging from the study of the transport
sector in Peru are: (a) the past neglect of maintenace which has led to deteriorated transport networks
and declining quality of transport services; (b) the distortions in modal choice as a result of improper
charging for transport usage (mcluding overloading on roads) and high opeatg costs of transport
services provided by public sector agencies; (c) the weakness of what remains of public sector agencies
In charge of transport infrastructure and services and their ability to manage investment and
maintenance programs; and (d) environmental and safety related issues resulting from lack of
eaforcement (e.g., the high rate of accidents on Peruvian roads compared to other Latin American
coutries).
2.    In addition, past Bank experience in the transport sector In Peru bas Indicated chronic problems
In the inmlementation and supervision of projects. Among the reasons cited are the lack of capacity
within the public sector agencies responsible for ransport which have been further weakened following
recent restructuring.
3.    Finally, the mechanisms for finance, management, and administration of infrastructure in Peru
are currently being revised following broad-based macroeconomic reforms. Me future structre of
caying out infrastructure provision is therefore uncerta
4.    The Transport Rehabilitation Project includes a set of studies and technical assistance aimed at
addressing these issues.
5.      bwetives The main objectives of the project are to rehabilitate existing infrastructure, assist
Government in implementing institutional reforms, and lay the ground work for fiuture projects.
Within this context a program of studies and other technical assistance was identified, which falis under
three main categories: (i) policy studies on highway management and the functioning of MTCC; (ii)
studies for preparing future investments; and (iii) advisory services to the agencies responsible for the
highway, railway, and non-motorized transport components and for the project management.
IL POLICY STJDIES RELATED TO  IGHIWAYS AND MTCC
6.    Two main themes were identified for policy assistance, namely: (i) improvements to road
administration and finance; and (ii) organizational reform of MICC. With regard to the former, the
project will support a study and/or other technical assistance which will be defined upon completion of
a road policy study to be carried out with finding from the ongoing Highway Repair and Maintenance
Project (IDB). With regard to the latter, a study wiUl be conducted under this project to address
MTCC's organizational needs.



-111-                                ANEX9
7.    Road Administaion and Finance:  Tnis technical assistance would examine alternaive
mechanisms for managing roads in Peru within the context of privatization and decentralization.
Among the alternatives considered would be: (i) semi-autonomous units for contracting and supervising
the private sector in carrying out road works; and (ii) decentralized units managed by MTCC within
the departmental units to be formed following decentralization. With regard to road finance, there are
many options to charge for road usage including fuel taxes, registration fees, and tolls. The system of
oad carges as presently managed does not assure the proper recovery of marginal costs from each
mode and leads to distortions in modal choice. Excessive tolls on unpaved roads and in locations with
no alternative routes lead to high operating costs for long-haul trucking while overloading in some
tnsport corridors leads to premature deterioration of the road network. The technical assistance
would assess the best mechanisms for charging for road usage in a mannea that will allow recovery of
at least margina costs while keeping overall transport costs at reasonable levels.
8.  =runiao    Reforn of MTCC    he scope of this work will include an assessment of the
adminitatve set-up and capacities of MTCC and will also take account of the roles of other transport
sector institutions. In the light of the recent government reforms, the study will develop a strategy to
reorane   and strengthen the Ministry.
9.     11B Studies: The technical assistance included in this project would complement the four
studie which are planned under the ongoing IDB loan for a Highway Repair and Maintenance Project.
These stdies will examine: (i) policy, technology, financing and responsibilities for the various road
neworks, (ii) regulations, charges, and controlling mechanisms for axle weights; (iii) strengthening of
institutions responsible for road administration; and (iv) environmental aspects of highway
management. Special aetion will be given to coordinatng the two programs when the study terms of
reference are finalized and consultants engaged.
MII. PlARATION OF FUTURE INVESTNENTS
10. Technical assistamce to MTCC for conducting thematic and detailed road design studies has
been descrbed in Aex 4. In addition, the project contains a provision for other studies in the
transport sector to Identify priorities and prepare final designs. There is a specific need to identify and
priortize airport rehabilitation works. The preparation of designs for the airports identified could be
financed under this component. Studies for various transport investments, including national highways,
secondary roads, and airports, are foreseen with funding from a Japanese grant for the preparaticn of a
second tansport rehabilitation project.
IV. ADVISORY SERVICES
11.   Institutional Strenhtening for MTCC: A main government objective is the integration of
rural communities and pacification. This implies extensive efforts in the provision of rural roads as
well as the maienamce of existng road, railway, river port, and aviation access to rural communities
and agricultura ares. Advisory services will be provided to MTCC to assist in the plaaning and
management of trsport investments and sector policy to achieve this as well as other transport
objectives such as enhancing transport reliability in concentrated export corridors. The project will
provide for five advisors in various aspects of road management and maintenance planning, an advisor
In cii aviaion, an enviroental specialist, and an advisor in ports and water transportation.
Toehicad support is planned to strengthen the National Road Laboratory, with the objective of
restoring its capacity to perform its mandated responsibilities.



-t112-                               ANN X
12.   Technical Assistance to ENAFER: The structure and importance of technical sistance to the
railways, given the transition from state to private ownership, takes on added significance. Four man
activities have been identified for support: (X) restrucuring and privatization; (i) costing; (iii)
workshop and maintenance practices; and (iv) marketing.
13.   Restructuring and Privatization: In addition to the assistance funded in paralle under the
Privatization Technical Assistance Project, Loan 3540-PE, approved in December 1992, some sup
will be provided to ENAFER and CEPRI-ENAFER to prepare the data and analysis necessary to assess
altenatives for privatization and its consequences. This includes: (i) the development of a strategic
plan for ENAFER which would define the business and give direction to the enterprise; (ii) support in
developing and monitoring an action plan for ENAFER; -(iii) assistance with respect to public service
obligations and the issues related to uneconomic lines; and (iv) preparation of economic reviews of
ralway performance by line, commodity, ard service type.
14.   Costing of the various types of cargo that the railway carries is a key input to the restructuring
process. Technical assistance will be provided to aid ENAFER staff in developing and Implementing a
computerized variable costing system which can be used to a2sist in commercializaton and
privaization decisions. These decisions include analyzing the impacts of changes in opeating and
maintenace procedures, profitability analyses of current and potendal bus;iess services, and the
impact of policies such as staff reductions.
15.   Workshop and Maintenance Practices: Many of the practices currenty used for recording
and accounting for repair and maintenance activities are outdated. Ihis sub-component aims at: (a)
designing a budget system, by account, for each class of repair, showing costs of labor, materals, and
units of repair; and (b) providing consulting services to Impart good practices and monitor the
emergency repairs to locomotives and other equipment.
16.   Marketing: One of the major steps towards preparing ENAFER for privatization is to implant
a commercial orientation within the enterprise. This sub-component will provide assistance to: (i)
develop customer service criteria and monitoring systems that can enable ENAFER to determine
customer needs for wagons and delivery schedules; (i1) enhance empty wagon and rolling stock
management systems in order to maximize utilization and productivity; and (iii) review market demand
and tariff setting activities to capture revenues for the railways.
17.   Technical Assistance to MLM will also be provided in the form of advice in non-motorized
transport planning and management. This includes identification of the demand for non-motorized
transport, development of an integrated Bicycle Network Plan for the Lima metopolitan area, ensuring
the affordability and accessibility of this mode of tranport tD the poor, and assessing the advantag  of
various credit schemes.
18.   Technical Assistance to the PCU: The Project Coordination Unit will also receive technical
assistance over the duration of the project in order to carry out specialized studies when necessary and
to supervise ongoing project components.



-113-                              ANN= LO
PERU- Tnprt Rehabliltatlon Project
TRIN1NG PROGRAM!
L MOTIVATION AND OBJECTIVES
1.    Status of Public Sector Professionals: The capacity of sectoral ministries and thek asso d
public sector agencies to perform their mandatel duties has been eroded. Among the reasos cied are
the economic crisis from which Peru is just recovering. Due to financial cntrnt in the public sectr,
formal training of personnel has been discontmed. Stae agencies have fuithr lost qualified personel
due to low salaries, and volunty or mandato  rerement and layoffs. Many agencies, Including
MVrC, have been weakened so much that they are barely able to conduct dayto-day operns in their
respective sectors. Additionally, the system of Incentives for public sector employees to undertako
training has been undermined due to uncertainty of the fture and the fst-paced refoms curry taking
place. There has also been little atraction of younger professionals to the public sector due to all the
factors mentioned earlier.
2.    Cmoe  Obise: The objective of this component is to restore the insttonal ad
technical capacity of the professiona personnel withn MTCC, Its respecdve public sector agcies, as
weUl as other entites engaged in the mnagment of sector operaions and policies.
3.    Pomw  =ang helps to maxmize the benefits of any bistment program. The folowing are
the areas in which training activities must concente in order to ensure sustainability of the benefts from
the on-going ivestment in the transport sector. Ihe training programs are linked to the investme
program in each sector as well as to the technical assistance to be prwvided under the project.
4.    AdminiamoQfIzaIntIAgMties: The training activides wil be admistered nd coordinad
by the PCU. The training will take place throughout the duration of the project, following a schedle
to be developed by the PCU and MTCC, in tems of priorities for the country, and based on the list of
courses already idendfied. A training coordinator within the PCU wil have oveal responsibility for the
complete set of equipment to be purchased under te project for  tg    purposes. This include
projectrs, scre, computers, pn    , photooopy capability, and access to fax machines ad
inernational telephone lines.
5.    Moirntgf Lralining ActMties: Ihe PCU will keep track of who is receiving what tining
as well as prepare yearly repors showing how  mny courses were conducted, how many students
partcipated, and what problems were encountered. Each yearly report should show what is planed for
the next year. The coures are intended primarily for assistiAg Peru In strengthening the sk    of
personnel in public institutions. However, In light of the restuctuing and reforms aking place In the
government agencies, the couses should also be open to the pvate sector, contractors, conutants, and
material suppliers. A procedure for charging private sector partiipants should be developed by the PCU
ad Weed with the Bank. Courses that are brought from other contrie should be taught by Peruvin
Instructors tO the degree possible. In the event that a course is taught by a forign expert, a local
instrucr, possibly from a unierft or from MTCC should learn the matera, learn how to teach the
material, and be authorized to teach this material throughout the country in a programmed fashion. The
PCU should ensure at this procedure is followed.



-114-                              ASNNE1
H. COURSES
6.    Courses in Highway Issues: A number of courses, to be conducted in Peru and adapted to
Peruvian conditions, have been identified. lhese courses are of four types: (i) general transport studies
to assist in planning and evaluating road transport projects; (i) targeted courses in areas of specific
importance to Peruvian road conditions; (iii) thematic courses on areas that are new or changing within
the highway sector in Peru; and Ov) site visits to highway agencies in foreigtn countries. Some of these
courses could be offered more than once, perhaps in several locations. Courses that deal with
maintenance and rehabilitation of roads should be offered at the beginning of the program, and the others
should be offered later depending on the set of priorities for MTCC. A tentative schedule and
prioritization scheme should be prepared, based on a survey of the most critical needs.
7. Gneral nIt iAW Courses include: () formulation and evaluation of transport projects; (ii)
envionmental impact and environmental management of road projects; (iii) integrated transport system
analysis including internationa trade and logistics, freight transport and reliability, and multimodal
transport; and (iv) strategic management of transport systems.
8. .    Mtd Comes include issues such as: (i) highway design and maintenance standards; (ii)
economic evauation of rural roads; (iii) highway capacity estidmation and level of service for single-lane
rural roads, two-lane intacity roads, and urban intersections; (tv) geometric design of roads; (v) bridge
and tunnel design given the number and state of bridges in the Peruvian network which is nearing a crisis
stge; (vi) geotechnical studies of tropical soils and soil stabilization to be adapted for Peruvian conditions
which is necessary given Peru's topography and climatic conditions; (vii) hydrological aspects of road
design; and (viii) management of road construction and maintenance equipment which is important given
the tent of maintece and construction works ta will be undertaken under this project.
9.      hemati. Courses recommended are in areas of particular significance following the recent
setoral reforns as well as the changing role of transport in Peru. ITese include courses in: (i)
procurement and other aspects of contract management which is important due to increased participaion
of the prvate sector in project works; (ii) modern rehabilitation and maintenance management techniques
for roads which is needed considering the exme maintenan  neglect in past years; and (iii) road safety
courses to instuct on modern methods for reducing and controlling accidents - also of importance given
Peru's poor safety record.
10.   Foreign She Visits and Scholarships will also be provided in order to allow road personnel to
gudy abroad when local training is not possible. This sub-component includes two levels of training: (I)
managerial and technical persoonel; and (ii) recendy graduated enginees and economists. Each person
selected to travel outside the country for a course or seminar would be required to present a talk and
wrkten paper on the seminar and on the implications for Peru. Tnis sub-component would also include
technical visits to foreign countries under themes to be developed by the PCU and to be approved by the
Ban.
11.   Young  Profesionals: As a form of institonal strengthening, these courses are aimed at
atacting young professionals to work initally as interns within MTCC at the Lima and provincial
offices, as well as participate in the courses listed above.
12. R3Mrng: The PCU will prepare an executive summary of all the highway courses to be taught,
and send them quarterly to MTCC and the Bank.



-115-                               ANNEX 1Q
13.     :Inig ENAFER  Most of the tinig to ENAFER staff will be performed at appropri
ENAPER locadons. For some taining It may be Importa  to take ENAFER staff to trang faciltes
in the home country of the training consultaons or dsewhere abroad. The training progrm  wil cosidst
of the following:
(a)    Locomotive and wagon maitace to train the use of now methods and equipment
for maiance of locomotives and wagons so as to enable a sustained level of operating
efficiency,
(b)    a system to keep maintce and repair of equipment and tolling stock record to keep
up with the unit s  of maintenance and repair and the types of failures of equipment
and rolling stock-,
(c)    basic training and upgrading of skill and teciuques of rai and bta  mantenac to
better manage the ways and structures;
(d)   foremns corse In trc maintenance;
(e)   tranig in the operation and maintenance of mechanized track and equipment which is
importa given the extent of staff reducdons and restucring to be undertaken under
the project;
(O)    dispatching with new radio and telecom nations systems to be inoduced under te
project;
(g)    tnical courses and instruction to telecommunication departmen employees which
would enable them to operae, test, maiin, and repak aU new equipmeot to be
instaled;
(h)     ining in the application of new Operating Safety Rules which will b necessay in light
of the new radio communications;
6i)    basic  aing in the use and operation of computers and computer systems, as wel as
trainig in basic operations; and
0)    traing in marketing and sales as wel as targeting and selling to customers in a
commerciW enviomentThis corse will also incdude pricing and costig in various
product markets and under varying competve condidons.
M. BOOKS, JOURNAIS, VIDEOS, ANDMATERIAS
1.   Ihe project will also assist in the acquisition of books, subscriptons to professional Journl,
purchasig of istuctive videos ad other materials necessay for  ainig purposes.



P3315 TRANlSPOT REHADTAUON PROJECT
XWPHftS8It*r*W*A42.1200                                             00       Go       g        9     go      00                a    -00   123 00    __.00   13.4  a152.32 
X"aw  i  Ie 4lS*ms                 14      0140    010    0100    0.00    0.00    Goo    10.2       6010    Goo    0.00    0.0o    0.0    .06    as41    0143    01            or102
18a.mo.    M.d.          ~~~~~025  0.00    0140    00       0  00          02as00000am              000      0D    000      GD0   020       007              Gin 004  03      1I        1      25       1
UMmneO.                   0.25~~~~~Ga  000    0GM  00      0O0    000      025     041     0       000    000    000   -000   -041    0.10    0.25           006      04       15      2       25
LaK% ee* .CM#M   M.            00      GA00    000    Goo0   000        000      00     086     00      0050    0.00    0.00    000      09 2-   024    05?4   -014        06       1 is            25       I
0.  of load    Odagage      010&t   2.15    2.40     15D    0.00    0.00      .0     01      27       .8     02       000     00      726      .4     4.2      .0       74
0.2     0.0.A            .0     0.00sGo  000     090             Go4t.4  000    000    000    000         0723    0ll    0743    011        07      1i       2       25       I
15jaauo.   ISI         0.05    0.25    000    0.0    000         00    04       000     042    0105    032    000    Om          0460    on1    0.2       0076     05       1       26      25       1
La                        0~~~~~~~~~.10    010    10. 60   0A0    0Soo             01       .0      1       000.   0.00    0o0    622       4120    07.4     016      12       1       2       25       IS
boMw..Cmul                0.00    $10~~IJ   1.25   .2     000      01      2.o    0.0oo16                    2      000    CO0    2109    017        100     0.4      21     -1s       2*      25       IS
if lad ebda Sceme   0.0    42      25 44.20    010           0.910 6ai01    2.22                      .       0.05    00 -    0.29 22.S     3016   8045    00.s2 
2.10 -2.0       010m   0.0       .0     000    102       2A 75           00      00       0      000    1241      410    7.45     I0       $2 4      is     2*        2  
8 c o .                    1 1~~~~~~~~L 0   4,0  s e e   0 0 00 0 0  0 0e  6. 0      1     5 1 0     0       0     0 0 0   0 .0 09   .      63.      3.7 0   0 4 I S12                  *2
Go0    7160    5191              1       0      340     18       I       .500            -016    000   1-04 es    4 21 985    $2 IS       1.         Ss     2        3        1
On"4.ee, wofu    *              So 1.201iu       Goos   :oo      000   0am    13          $4      60$      250    o       oo      000    10        64       .0      13      102              a*       23       Is
ASWWOMtSatbdtn060                 1.20    00      000    0,0       0       1.0      as7  2143    000    00          000  00         21      04       2       033     23        1       2       25       1
*ecowt                            000bftt  o  370    000    000    @0       00      30       0      410o    000    00       00-0  -000    4.0        14       70    031       46        1       6       3     
Sowe&sk  ess0.20    0.4                            0.      0k10    000    00                035    048   0GM         .1      0      000    $147    037       008     022       Is       II     2        25       I
fl iao     0M ,               000      00o    210  -65    22            1      0        .0     000     376    7.- 200           0     1377      4 54    5.25      0       3        1       0       3
coachuOmh                         0O0      0.      0.06i   00      00      00        S       0      0373    002    044    040    000O    228         00      144    00        2         S      2         5       I
Owud  i                      0.20    0.00    000    010   -000                        ass00  2  000    000    000    0.00    000    026    010         013     005       04              20I
00               00     250     00       0      760    000       243    212    321    0109    000    0942         .1      55               54        1       0       3
if                 000~~~~~~o    020    0.25    0.25                                                                                                                                             la000 00 0 02  2  2   2 00  0  .0 0$ 01   0 I  61
F.          0.05    017    0.07      @17    0*4    0.00    0.25    010   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 019    0.  0.00    0.05    0.00  0.7   .1       1      01      10.       15      2        7
0.n             am0  1  000    01        .0     02m02             .2     00       0       0       0       0.20    010     013    005o    04.220 
I  ~~~u~~~s             010    020~~~&l  04     000Go   0.0     000      U7      020      .26    60.8    000    00         00    602    043       010    0.as      05
GAI 1 030    001    oo 4LO  CDO    .31   050 000GI a



PERU TRAISPORT REAMAS AflOWPROECT
.4,                                                                                                                                                         . .. .~~.   .~I~*gcJs
."P f fumeRead *l*             t.     tA5    OJO    0.25    0.00    0.too    4.0      S.0   2lM    0on       0.2    am0    0100    4.64    1.00    2.81    0.1%    4.54
r                        070~~~~~~~~~~~~~y    025    000    000    a0  000    too    0oo    020    000    000    0.00    000    119    042    0AD    015        1 2      19     2        5       is
Pbo4m*a         f in             0230    0.00    #00O   000    000    000    020    0.25    000    000o   000    000    000    026    00o    021    00s                 04       15     28       25      is
~101110%                         0.40    06       000     00      O.0    0.00    1230    047    1.05   0O0    060    000    000    157    020    0.04    021            16       is     a8    25         is
Road 8O                          015    0.00; O  0.40    05      000    000   -140    0le    061    062    022    000   -000   -1.71    061            05      026      1 7      is   -2         3       is
2.Sfl488&P1AT1ZATI00405 RAILWAY    10.4?   22.23    1.75    Om~0   0.00    GL00   150    12.18   27.     210 9     0 0.00        0.00GA    42.25   25.40    8680  10.08   4.25.
PonmamiSw                        440   11.74    0.08    0b..  000)    00    1.2         500   1427    110o   0001   000    000   2046o   13061   182    4.0    209.              15     281    01        241
I.      UWA     du*O             8.54     432    0.73    000    000)   000   a4.s0 65           140    0.01 I000    000    000    7.05   1121    241           42*    178 .      isl    20      021      241
1.l.coauowdca0omm~~~ewJso.  0.28    2.41    014    000    c00    000    2.81    0.11    282    0*7    000    000    000    142    120         414    082      1 4       Is[    281    25        24
1. R**WAV .no" A LaOAWMP.OA        0.0 4.0         88       .6     0.0     00      47      .8 2.60    7.00    0.00    0.00    000o  20.10   10.8    W0.S    2.40   30.18
RWW"                    ~~~~000   11.70    000    000    000    0D   111 ?      000   1422    000    000    000'   000   1422    782    640    100    142.                      2       SS        1
7oi'a MA8ai                       00     80              000    000     00    la0t0    000    606    017    000    000    000   *2 49    6s   -472    087              i24        s     2        Ss       7
CamadwOos               ~~~~ ~~~~~~040    1.70    0,40    0oo    4'00    000    250    04?    207    080    000)   000    000    104    *1     088a    040      240     Is      28       7       IS
T.Ommal                 ~~~~~ ~~~~~~0.10    0.2    0.A0    000    100    000    0401   012    024    012    000    000    000    0 49    041    000    600?    056      15      2       ea       Is
4."K P0.0 PRJIU LOA               La2s    1.101   1.5    0.20    0.18    0.0      3,4    0.510   U4S    1.88    0.26    0*s    0.0    4.00    tax4   2.A        D.20    4.88
Doolamolow   I     -     013    CL00    000    0.00    000    000    01s    019    0.00    000    000    000    000    019    004    000    002                  2      IS      28a     25-      is
coOatacbml                       0.10    1.00    V.22    000    000    000    2132    0.12    122    1562    000    000      000   -286    011    104    02             29       is     2a      291       7
Coolumbonsuo  a*t                0.02    005    000    000    000    00         008    002    004    040    0oo    000    000o    006    0012   004    002              01 I     is     28.    25        I-S
Cr04.  vE000    0.0S    010    020    0.AS    0as    040    000    006    0*5    020    019    005    040    048    012    000                                          00        1      of               0
60.@.4n1 A    1 8                 000    003    00T    000    000    000    0*0    000    004    009    000    000    000    012    001   -007    02                     01       Is     21    25         is
0.00    008    0.06    0.05    000    000    020    000    000    0*$0    008    000    000    029    000    01s    004               02       Is     28       25      I
5 YIOCIO6CAMA88IT5A064             I.46    .6   0am        tic0   0.4    0.221   0.70 I 1.72    1.07    1.02    1.42    0.64    020    7.8    3.55    2.47    1.0    7.08
R*ada4v,*miob,mdmwW nc           000    000    000    0.00    0.00    000    060    0.00    000    000    0.77    000    000    0 77    020    027    012.   08                  I5     281     5        151
coMTCCm     mEw.~      ~~ 020    000    000    000    000    000    020    05          00      00      00     00      00      05      06      02      06       0        9      2        0       1
P.  ason of "* =81oB od,         0 37    046    0 28    000    000    000    1 20    044    0s?    026    000    000    000    140    0 72    051    0 22                S 6     is    2. O      0fi
T. Ago MTC                       025    020     02       027    02      010O    140    0l       0132    024    0 16     1U     014     Iis    08I6 06                   1  1a21
TAI.EI4AP4R             ~~~~ ~~~~~026    054    000    00  0.00O   000    080    043    0 66    000    00      00      00      18      04     08.  1Od9                         8      50       1
T A IM*.M                        002    004    0.04    000    0.00    000)      ot 0*0    603     s 00  00r    000    000    000    012    006    0041   002           01       19      28       0       *
T A2      CoP(WdnsU*owmNI        00      036.   008    006    006         04    04      006    000    010    0*0    010    005    091    0 25    0la8   000             05      Is      2*       0
Tt"                              0.101   0*5    0.15      i 018   *     008   -080    0.12    019    010    020.  020.   0il    I01    051    026    0.19               10       I      2        0       1
6. ROJECT UAIAGE10101T             004    am6    0.60    0.80    0.60    0.20    4.o    0.08    1.05    1.00    l02       .7*    0.2?    .12    &0.0    0.00    0.04    0.18
Petsaww                          0*0     0*      060    000    060    0.20    460    006    0.07    *00    *02    010    027    S01    000    S01              000      s0       *5i    20        
0                       ~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~             ~~~004.   00G00 00 00 o0   0*0    006    007    000    000    000    000    912    002    008    004         OL       1s      28      5       1
10180.5  28.27  102.11   45.16   1682    4.16    0.46  101.44   1164  125.28   8628   20.50    871    081   242.80   0001   *1660   2740  24260~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2030 6,1  6124200 901   "M 270   42



-118-                               24J   12
PERU - Tnsport RehablUtatlon Project
IPLEMENIATION SCH]DULE, MONITORING INDICATORS
AND PROJECT SUPERVISION
Implementation Schedule
1.    Table 12-1 shows the planned implementation schedule for each subcomponent of the project.
Most activities would commence In mid-May 1994, the assumed time of loan effectiveness. Some final
designs and other aspects of project preparation already commenced with funding from a $1.5 million
Project Preparation Facility. The rehabilitation of roads, which correspond to 30% of the Bank loan, can
commence by July 1994 if final designs and the selection of conractors and supervision consultant
proceed as planned. Any substantial delays during that preliminary phase could postpone the road
rehabilitation by almost a year, as seasonal rains usually preclude the initiation of civil works during the
December-March period.
Monitoring Indicators
2.    Table 12-2 presents key monitoring indicators of physical progress and operational and financial
performance, which were agreed at loan negotiations. They cover expected achievements through 1996
and will be updated during the annual project reviews expected to take place in September 1994 and April
1995. New targets through 1999 will be developed during the Mid-Term Project Review which is
tentatively scheduled for March 1996.
Project Supervision
3.    A preliminay schedule of Bank supervision missions is shown in Table 12-3. The key activities
shown in the table are in addition to the desk supevsion needs by Bank staff, which include the review
of (and preparation of comments on): (a) progress reports, (b) audits, (c) terms of reference for studies,
technical assistance and traiing requests, (d) procurement documents, awards and resultig issues, (e)
study analyses and recommendations, and (M) general correspondence. These desk supervision needs ae
estimated to require an average ten staff weeks per year during the first three years of the project, and
four staff weeks per year thereafter.



Table 12-1: PERU TRANSPORT REHABIUTATION PROJECT -IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
_aw                                        1 99zts4           1995             1        .9       119               119             -119
. ROAD COMPONENT
A. Minal Detgns of Road Reftab Sohnw
%a Merced4Saupo
*Nusnuco-Tlngo Mada 
'Rioia4bo, NueCofal umafsns
8 Supeson of Rod Reab. Sdm
'?ama4.a Merced
H1uanuoo.flngo Mann
o N1wauco wrnp   ad M
C Exeution of Road Reb~. S   dhm
ranma4.a lsfAced
La MaMed-Stzpo
T11repoto*soias
TalpRe olo Mesa/0/gg0//
Rio N   iaeCons Ouemede (0W)
0. adge Pogrmi
,n"*d nyt t&/0//00/0/ 0ffm
Fhal designs of cone_t btdges
*Aoqtusstn of Bai   badges
Recoery    bbd of daiey bage
E PilotRoad  _mland PMnM
PO    IWUd dtign O Pilt WeMr
SupMaaoa of Wafti
P.  1Gmat tot Road Labofat iy
G. Tiaf  Sfey Pogr-m
7traffic safety stud
Equwpme -Ad
*SIn    contract tm, tes wiho   asteSW"  require WI            onftCtUt



-120-                                        ANEX 12
Table 12-1: PERU TRANSPORT REHABIUTATION PROJECT. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Name~~~~ ____1_1911S___                   ___ _ __  _ _  _._______._..
K Osof tAAe Roa*b. S.hu _
R,d6 mfs sumft sez o mual
2. PRNATIZAfTON & aREMOPiP WA
Tgemmuniswadosdmg
3 RUNWAY REHMa AT UMA MAORI
TRymo _ab. (m      . .
ITwm Roittwydwh^ Iwo
TA CuOL m     ---- I i  s
u NMTPWTPJECTIRN UMA,
SdumdenZ anmmalsw s smn*agnsm ;l
Mamudeg_ and00 vNmmpsms
|. t CNL ASL ANCE U& TRAIN
SWdA4wr*uI@flvs0Ofwmff C
TA tMO_
TA to 84AMS
TAMU M
TAwPms c4dhmiisAu"
IL PROJCTrMANAG_I
*SV        1 o bn mw m fhozl_dest dfequi a, a        p e



-121-                                       ANNEX 12
Table 12-2: MONITORING DWICATORS
1. ROAM AND BRDGES
evglo comieon at aW of
RehabUitadon of ThrlI-a  Moed-Stpo, Tarao-
foJaRfo Niea, nd Hudoueo.Thso Marts roads (9 kIm:
- Final dedu  and tedr  domes                                        100%
Contucton wo*e (overal)                                             24%              10%        100%
- Wo   on bridges, tuuls and other stractum                          20%              80%        100%
- N    or rhabila  pavoment opend to bTrI                            20%              85%        t05%
Rebabtation of Rio NMevaC       Querdo road (176 k-.):
- Final design and tender document                                   100%
-Contucionnwi (oveal                                                 0%             43%          90%
- Wo  on bridges, tuwes and ohr srwres                                0%             20%          90%
- Now or rehabiat  pavm  opend to tuffe                               0%              20%         90%
MrEg. Rehabililtation:
- Bridge rehabilitatio   d  _sint e udy                              40%             100%
- Baley brdges dRevd (inear mw   )                                    400             S0
D Daify bridges rewoved (ine m trs)                                    -              S
- BDat  bridges  saed (ia mates)                                      100             200         30
- Rement of dlt bridge (linear met)                                    -                          300
- New or rhWbilitd blidge opened to truf (No.)                         3               13          36
ma*w- m of Natona Road System:
lniarqr of Road Maintennem
Ratio of venues fm rd usr to and
mnteaneexend bRree                                            5         >1           >1          >I
Rad8 maisaemo budget (US$ nM=lx)
, Of which: ecudig  13RD &IDB pect roab                                   >50         >50         >S0
Ainowt speot on oad maintenanc
-of which excluding IORD MIDB pqjet oads                                 >50          >50         >S0
knout spoth on  _hftnuwe co_fton                                        >20          >20         >20
Anmt spoot on tlc moo" wo*s                                               >20         >20         >20
Amoung s_  on admin_atration and dhbw bm                                  tO           10          10
Remol of ndAldes (million auble mers)                                     3            3           3
kn of road overayWed wih asphal cae                                      1,200        1,200       1,200
Icm of road  ngravd                                                     4,000        4,000       4,000
km of road naded                                                        27,000       27,000      27,000
Pgt road mrogrm                                               Iada  to be defined in 1994 by detad
deig stuy



-122-                                       A              12
Road Adminialon  and IIjmnw                                              Rod Pbbuy Rod  dmi. OWakla
Sludv tllD      TA       af MIC
MTCC ius TORs to con _ut                                                   0212W94   1/S/9M        02/155
MC and couans sin contt                                                    05115194   OU1W96       06/5/
Coltanb iniat sftu                                                         06/15194   05/15/6      0711s595
Conlants compilt sudy                                                      10/31/94   06/15/97     I1259
arZ prvides commen_s and susion                                            11/30194   03197        0131196
Gov't approves/commentsaon stdy findins                                    12/31/94  I10197        03/1516
MTCC pepae acton Plan to eforM rd MuAgmAn                                             rIV31/94
M1CC devlv plan (i. equimt o ftsung     Natol Rod LI _a y                             02/15194
IMCC implemet plan to stbnh  Nal RaPl Laboraoy                                        12/15/95
MTCC povide updaed nvetor of ub,o   rad   u gta   enbthstA.                           043094
Govermn imlemnt acion plan baedn roduser ohare su4y                                   12/31/95
Govement impleme   action pln  based an    admh        study                          12/31M95
MTCC impleent actio pln bad an oanitiaa  *dy                                          12/31196
Aver    Traffc (vehides per day)                                               Indiosnra of Road Use
- Tanma-San Ramdn                                                          1114    1150  1180    1220
- San Rand-LA Mesod                                                        1604    1650  1700    1750
- LA MeOrd-Puent Ch _nchaiyo                                                481     500   510    530
- Paes" Chona o-S                                                           302     310    320    330
- TarpotMoyobambs                                                           542     570    590    620
- Moyohamba-Rija                                                            488     510   530    560
- Rio*4tRo Nia                                                              311     360    380    390
- Rio Nieva-Cand Quemmado                                                   294     310    320    340
- Hudauo-Trngo Mari                                                         543     560    580    600
Aver   Road Rougbnes (IMM)                                                 Indk   of Road &uto  OuBiat
i99im  im 1 m
- Tum-San Rau                                                                13      9       S       3
- San Ramnn-La Meroed                                                        4        4      3       3
- L Mesd-Puae  Chanmmyo                                                      12      12       8      3
- Puent Chrnhmayo-Satipo                                                     12      12       8      3
- Tawapot-Moybamba                                                           12      10       7      3
- Moyobamba-Rioja                                                            12      10       6      3
- Rioja-R/o Nmeva                                                            12      12      10      3
-Rio Nieva-Cor  Quomado                                                      12      12      10      3
- Hudmio-rTgo Maa                                                            6        6       3      3
Trafi Safety ad Desigp of F_e Road Sbmit                                   T rlf   Tug Mark- Oer goad
hSf  ,u dU             m
PCU ises TORs to shostidd consta                                           05115/94  05/15/94 07/15194
PCU     sn andconsu    sign conr                                           0194  09/1I194 II/11/94
Consutant inae suy                                                         115/94  10/1594 01115M95
Coun  complte duy                                                          011519S  Os11519s  07/15/95
Gov e 4mptoveCoonme ea Xb  f;                                              07319   07M3195 09115M/
Now fundn is appoved for h _      _                                        09/319S*
Implmntion of schom                                                        01/31/96
* except for minor safty fmlvanet tie      er dde pmjot



-123-                                      ANNEX 12
RebabMtadca Workc ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~nba,matuI
CenU2   Ralwy (CC
- Baiio    p 1 I m v in o ubic.                                                    o 6,8W       400
- Tic bplat 1 unit                                                              17,00         3,000
- LoomoAtOis uai                                                                     5            7
- waspus, in units                                                                  45           55
- Tekoomnwrhmdm (,A)                                          ~~~~~30       70
Soemn Railway (PCSO
Track  eblitaon with vw a,  in km                                                  34            6
-  Ball  zpoment in cabi  nmr                                           12,000  1,000         12,000
-Toe pln  in untlsl,ow                                                                        19,2M
* Tkac mbbilitaon with _w nib (1.                                                   34            6
* Loomotive in units                                                                 7            9
.Wagonsinunits                                                                      so           70
- Telecomnications ()                                                               40           60
Soudt-E.tem Raiway (FCSO)
- Track ehabilfia    with ne  ao in km                                              12            3
- Locomotie in uvits                                                                 1            2
- Railcar in unAs                                                           I        -
- Tc              (%)                                                               40           60
Opeatonal P"erfoaanm                                                          pe..  r nima inat
Ceta Railway MCC)
- Locomotive avaiabiit in S                                               27      40     54 60        66
- Wagon tArund in das                                                     8.9    7.3    7.1  6.9    6.8
-Tons handl per year (thoun)                                              778   1020   814 814       814
- To-km peM yea (milo)                                                      2    191   163  163       163
-Pmegpers year (thousnd)                                                   44    544   544 544       544
- Paasengerlon pr yewr (mMiO)                                             35      35     35   35      35
- Number ofaployas (Dombr 31)                                          1IA9   1419   912  615    615
- Employees pe ha of track                                                .2      3.1   1.9  1.3    1.3
- Thousand of tufo units per emlO*ee                                     128      156   217  322    3
Southern Railwa (FCS)
- Locomotive avaiabiity in %                                              42      58    60 65         65
- Wagon  rmmad in s                                                      18.0    23,6  20.5 18.3   15.0
- Tons hled p erwrya (tha                                                 55      496   54 554       S45
- Ton-lo per year (miwo                                                   232     238   232 232    232
- Paseq    per y (torusand)                                               50      319   300   2    562
- PassenerSm per yerm ilo)                                                126      73   71   126    16
- Number of eaployees (Doecmew 31)                                      2,24    2,089  1357  950    950
- Employeesperkrm of track                                                25      2.3   1.5   1.0    1.0
- Thoands of tuffle units por aylos                                       t1o     146  303  377    377
South-Eastm Raiwy (FCSO)
- Locomotimv  aileailt  in %                                               50     52    60 62         66
- WagVaetusond in da                                                      10.6    8.8   7.5  7.0    6.0
- Tons h      oddW  peryear y (dwannO                                      36      36   36   36    36
- Too4an per yar(MMW )                                                              5     5     5     5
- P_sw    per yalr_8                                                      574     650   574   574   574
- Passengw4cm pw yew (ant(OO                                               61      0    60    6    60
- Nundr of anpoyaw Moembw 31)                                            907      560  292   292   292
- Employee per hm of tack                                                   4     3.8   1.7  1.7   1.7
- Thoud of uffic unib per eapoy                                            ff     112   223  223   223
Acdon PHum
- Audi Repast for 1993 by hi_d_p   _AMu                                                               Wm
- ENAtER has mare at lst UWLO miN .. d  as   of_m.epuIuin  _                                          9/94
eprdxuad th onaa                                                  hip pm_u-e the do viov   pmes      7/94



-124-                                                  12
Pm iv -mm
Ph="da Pedrtouau
Coedra Railwa (PMC
*Opamting ratio in %183%                        154%     159%      13%        110%
.W  ingmtio in%                      150%      131%      132%     110%       96%
*Net operaztinghomo In us mlilon      (5.8)    (4.5)    (4.3)      (LO8)      (0.7)
uthan Railway (FC)
- Opaing  abio in %                    130%     147%      136%      103%       101%
.World*  rtio in %                     113%     126%      114%      9%        81%
- Nd opetirna  aomo in US  miniom     (4.7)     (6.1)    (4.)      0.2        (0.1)
SothEger Ralwa (FCS)
- OpeMtnin ill %                       133%     126%      112%      86%       96%
. Wkinm tio in %                       108%     93%       84%      69%        69%
- Netoti"waf heom4 in US$-on           (1.2)    (1.-      04        0.5        0.1
3. LIM   ARPR
Cm_  M' A ._mif                                                   Advioe    CWub_n                _*mo
to9 Me                            Stndy
PCU lim   TDRs to ebhdisd ooant                                                   04/15s94         01595
PCU and o     _nke  gn coaot                                       0415/94        07/15/94          S/I1s95
Cou14kats inh _    g                                               Ol5/sm         08/15/94         06115M
Consekmn  compet n      _met                                       04/30U96       04/30/96         09/31Uff
CA1 w.:
PCU pubes piqation aoumeme for  IoVs 12115193
PCU i     tendor dom                                                              06115/94
PCU and co     _uin   fArm sagn onte                                              IVIS/94
Caomtoton pbas ben                                                                01/01195
Runway is dosed for 8-9 bon sub nigh                                         03/15/S to O9/15/95
CAnabuction =6                                                W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0415/96
Waanty Pea nds                                                                    O/W597
Am_d T1aff at Lima Alpot: _idicato  of Almt UN
im  m   ~i
Totd htinatinl passe_r (Illin)                                              0.9      1.0
Tdil dometic pas_ens (miln)                                                 1.3      1.9
Tdt deuating feight (thuad tol)                                            26.1    23.8
Total arrg    fegt (thousd ton)                                             19.2    19.2
Ton  ommea ameaft movnet tousn                                              11.0    11.9
Tdal privae  at mnovenet tosnd                                              0.5     06
Nawoal aidline erVn  iqrot                                                   7       10
Fatoreg abibines seuving airpoat                                            24      23



-125-                                         AhmX12
Coulans   A          :gmmut                        Deos  of          Cowntcton        educational
C:ivi Wks        , ueridon         C  mpya   Mano
MLM issues TORs to conulans                                            05130/94        05/30/94      06/31/94
MLM aNd consultas sign conZQu94                    08m4                09/09           09/30/4       12131194
Consult  initt asinmet                             03/15/94            10/31/94        10/31/94      01/31/95
Consult  comple assigment                          07/15/94            12/31/95        06/30/96       231/96
CJvU Works:                                        Tends are         Consuction        Woas
Issue            Su--             Ent-
AverAds Coloil                                     08131/94            11115194        06/15195
Avenkda Univeosiria                                 08/31/94           11115/94        06115/95
Ave"ida Tupao Ams                                 O0IS/95             04/15/95        12/15/95
Avenida Tomns VaUl                                 Ol/Sf9S             0415/95         08/15/95
nicators of Biclo USD
Nr. of b1cyclesweekday an                                   JM       1994    1995    19
- Aveni Coloial
- Ave  UnivdriarU                                           Values and  ct drly stes
- Aveodds 7Upac AmaN                                        to bo defied in mid-1994 by MLM.
- Avenida Tonmi Valle
Bcls parked at pac  of amnpl
Data on bicyce ackients
To be defined.
ndicats of Cdit U
Us of Credit Scme for Low-Co tDlc                           1994          9
Number of bicys pursed under crt shem
Amwunt lot to emloym   of foma sectr (n Soles and U38) '
Amount let to infrm  sector (in Sole ard USS)
Ine  and  paywmu rcived                                              Values to be estmed and
Adm in ve com                                                        additoal indicator to be
Number of ceditos in potfoflio, by geder                             defined in mid-1994 by MLM.
Number of reditor in good  anding, by gender
TnSaport Sig Acrulng to Cydis                               1949                      1996
Survey and analyl mdhodolo to be defined.



-126-                                         AN    12
Table 23: SUEVSON PLAN
-            Mti~~y                        Expecte~d SMU          Stf*
Dte_________                                            Reqieet               Wcd s
6194      Pject Laich, icudg semian               POCUrMent                     12
p      _mt and disuremet. Roviw of   Disbumn_t
final desig  and eost estiates for   d  Railwy Patization
ard arport ri me.                       Raiway, Road and
Review of railway prvaiztlo  pmrgn.       Air   Engin
Lanch techal a      oisac ad tunizt     Envimn. Manage_m
co_MPoL                                 Epaei in NW
9/94    Supervac Misson.             Annual       Raiway ?rvaizato               9
Project Review. Focs n prog     with    Raway, Road an
prccurement and  enga wm of               Arport Eninei
consauints, ari on preparation of airpost   Ecaonoics
rehaI irkation wadis.
1/95     &Spvision Missi. Inspec contructi        Railwa Exprtise               9
sie, ssess experic with                 Road and Aio
eir   l_  manual for contator,         Engieing
review sudies in pess, and asses        Economics
____   ~~progre  with rilway priathizatiL          EvrLManagelmen
45         Second Auius Prject Revlgw Riw          Aiport, Road and             9
overall prgrs and updato   estimat        Brd  Engineering
and implementa    timetable. Focus on   Railway Exertise
lisi~NW Imdmainco sb*, and  Pomen
/ Speravi on MIssi     action__l_to                                  9
l~ ~~~ft n  sd finano and amddu
11/95      Suervision Mon                                                        9
3/96      MIPd-Tn Project Review. Review          Road  d Airp. ElUg.           12
overall prgrs, updat oost estits        Expets in Railwys,       
and i dedsble, rescbc   proj              Finane, NMT
composRh'on. Daft inteim   mlmion       EconomiEs
rports for railway, aiport and NMT      PrOcurmet
compones.                               Emvroin.  aa met
9/96      Supervision bMision                                                    S
199698      Two Supersion Missions per Year.     _                              6/yr
1999      Two Suervision Misso, inlding
p rparation of PCR.
* In addiion, desk stpervision wil  quir 10 daff-weeks per yearin 1994-1996, and 4 staff-vweek per year in 1997-1999.
NOlulM          he above suervision plan is based on the          Sclhetule (Table 12-1) and will need to be modified
in line witb acbtal project impl _ttion.



-127-                              ANNXC 13
Enmsl (u K M_
Year and Quarter             Q      y                  Cumulave
(nding daft)               D_                       Disbunemets
Match 31                                                        IS1 1.S
June 30                              5.0'                       6.5
Setember 30                          3.5                        10.0
December 31                          5.0                       1S.0
199S
March 31                             6.0                       21.0
June 30                               6.0                       27.0
Setembe 30                           9.0                       36.0
December 31                           9.0                      45.0
1996
March 31                             12.0                      57.0
June 30                              12.0                      69.0
Sep_tmb  30                          12.0                      81.0
December 31                          12.0                      93.0
1997
March 31                             9.0                       102.0
June 30                               9.0                      111.0
September 30                         9.0                       120.0
December 31                          9.0                       129.0
1998
March 31                             6.0                       135.0
June 30                              6.0                       141.0
Sepmbe 30                            3.0                       144.0
December 31                           3.0                      147.0
1999
March 31                              1.0                      148.0
June 30                               1.0                      149.0
September 30                         0.5                       149.5
December 31                          0.5                       150.0
2p1
b aia dspoui at specalMu



-128-                                 ,
PERU - 1Iasport  -h--        oProj.c
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
I. ROAD COMMONENT
1.    The economic analysis for the road lin  to be ilnduded in the project was based on four main
types of variables: (a) macr-economic and demographic variables such as GNP, popuaton, and per
capita Income; (b) traffc projectdo; (c) project costs; and (d) aep d benefit. Traffic volumes and
composition were obtained from  the Ministry of Transpoa      Comnicatio, Housing and
Construction (MC). Traffic projecdon was bed on epected growth rates in population and the GNP
from the project's area of influence, usig the following formula:
AM T            AJT.  (I + rj
Delt.AT),   - Delt.ADT, (I + rt
Where:
A,DT,8 Average Daiy Traffic, vebicle type j, year n
AT,                 = Avge DaBy Traffic for the base year
DeltAT,             s Induced trf,  year n, veicde j
DeltADT1               Induced taffic for the base year
growth rte, vehicle type J
2.    Growth rates were calculated from the macroeconomic and demographic rates as follows:
Liht vehicles rL = rH + EL.rT
Buses        r, =  rt + E,r,
Trucks          = m E-ra
Where: 1L = incomeelasticity per capita of light vehicle traffic; ED = income-elasticity per capita of bus
traffic; and E, = gross product-elastcty of truck traffic.
3.    Upgrading, rdebilitation, and          costs were especially estidma   for this evaluation.
It was assumed that extraordinry         would be done duing the frs year on each section, and
routine and periodic maintece (e.g., regravelling and crack sealing) from the second year on. These
costs were esdmated by the MICC as follows:
Type of Mai ace                   Asphat        Macadam
Routine (US$/km/year)             2,5W          3,500
Periodic (US$/km)                 25,000        18,000
4.    The project would generate the following beefits: (i) svig In road user costs; (ii) time savings
for psengers; and (I) savings In ftluae road mai ence. Vehicle opertig costs were calculated
though the VOC program of HDM IW. Fixed costs were added to opeating costs as a percentage,
1. VOC - Vdc Opeting Coa. HDM M- Third venic of Highway DaiSgn a0d Maidnaum Sdanrds Modd,
Wold Bak, 1987.



-129-                               ANNEX L1
which for light vehiles (automobiles and station wagons) crrespond to the cost of insurance, and for
commercilvehices Os  and truc), coreond t genr exPediur. 'Me asume Perceta
are 4.7 percent for liht veicles, 15 percent fot buses, and 12 perent for trucks.
S.    Road conditions before and after the investmet wer rated in tems of rougns, corvatur, and
gadient. The rv vues dwwn below wero used:
TYPE OF SUACE    ASSUUMD SURFACE                           ,m,
CONDMON            1NTRNATONAL ROUGHNESS INDEX)
Exin pavement                 Bad                             9.5
NOW pavement                 Good                             5.0
Exisi  gavd                 Avemsgs                          12.0
6.    Other inputs to the VOC model were the topograhy ratngs typical of Peruvin roads, as follows:
TYpe of Rolling                Topography          Avere dope    Average curve
Surface               _S___            _               %                 '/kM
Asphalt                           soft                 Is.-               so
tolling               3.U                ISO
_______ __  Rough             4.5                400
Macadam                           Soft                  2.0                70
Rolln                                                   3.S               200
Rough                     _______________               5.5               480
7.    B fts in tm  saings  fr passengers were calculated assuming a per capita icme,
reresentate of the area of Influence, corresponding to a person eaming minimum wages:
Minimum wage        -      US$122/month
Worked hours/month  =      176
Hourdy saary        =      US$0.69/hr (adopted as time vaue)
Pagers time costs were calcuWlated as follows:
TC           -       u.VT.(W% + O%/3)
V
Where:
vu           =      vehicle use rate (passengers/vehice)
VT           -      tme valu (US$ho)
W%                  pacenp   oft ravtowork
0%                  pecenae of travel for other reasons
V            =      speedw m/kr)
8.    Pour variables were used to obtai a priori  ating of the invesme  on the road links: bternal
Rate of Return  R); BefWCost Ratio (B:); Net P-esem Value (NPV); and First Year Beneft Rate
(FYBR). Tne  R  wa used as a primy raking crterion, while the FYBR was used as the seconda



-130- 
one. The latter criterion indicates that the project would generate benefits from Its inception. As shown
below, the results obtained Intdicae that all the project liks are economiclsly advantageous.
Order            Road Link           iERR         Estimated    FYBR
%          cost         %
($ mill)*
I      Tarma-La Merced               38.7            7.1     36.9
2      La Merced-Satipo               33.5          14.8      30.9
3      Trapoto-Rioja                  30.8          10.9      25.5
4      Hutm;co-ngo Maria              28.9           5.8      25.0
5     I Corral Quemado-Rioja          21.6          49.8      17.1
*     Base osts, including design and consuction supervision.
9.    Senstdvity Analysis.  Tbree scenarios were designed for sensitivity alysis: (1) a 20 percent
ncrease in project costs; (1U) a 20 percent decrease in estimated benefits; (m) a combination of (i) and
(d) which is the worst case scenario. The results of the sensitivity analysis indicate that all the project
lins are economically feasible even under the worst case scenario. The rates of return witiout time
savigs were also calculated. The analysis did not result in a change in the relative ranking of the road
links.
Order            Road Link         1    ()(I                       "
-a    I____________________1.20*Costs  0.80*Benefits J(l)+ (ED
1      Tarma-La Merced               33.2             32.1      27.6
2      La Merced-Satipo               28.8            27.8      23.8
3      Tarapoto-Rioja                 26.6            25.7      22.0
4      Huinuco-Tingo Maria            24.4            23.4      19.6
5      Corrl Quemado-Rioja            18.4            17.8      15.0
Economic Analysis for Pilot Maintenance Plan
10.    he pilot plan for maintenmce will be conducted on nine links comprising a total of 6.Okm.
Tbese links feed direcdy into the main truink road section from Tarapoto to Corral Quemado, which is
to be rehabilitated under the proposed project. The selected links belong to different classes of roads,
with differ  geometrical standards, surface types, and condition. The benefits of this plan are several:
(i) direct bents due to reduced costs of operation on the project linds being maintained; (ii) indirect
beneft in the form of improved information on methods for managing road maintenance in Peru; and
(i) indirect welfare benefits accming to the micro-enterprises that will be contracted to perform the
works. Ihe economic analysis only quanifies benefits of type (i) using the improvements in road
condition (as measured by roughness) following the mantenace activities. Of the nine links included
in this project, two of them (The four year flows resulting from this project are:



-131-                              ANNEX 14
Thbousands of US$
Year         Costs        Benefits     Net Benefits
0            300                       -300
1            2767         2649         -118
2            2767         3396         629
3            2767         4097         1330
These flows yield a Net Present Value of US$1,043 and an IERR of 91%, indicating that the component
is economically feasible.
Economic Analysis of the Bridge Component
11.   Ihe bridge component of the project consists of the replacement of 48 bridges. The type of
works include: (J) the replacement of existing Bailey bridges that are in bad condition with new Bailey
bridges or those salvaged from alternate locations; and (ii) the replacement of existing Bailey bridges with
permiaent concrete structures; and (ii) the demolition and construction of severely damaged concrete
bridges. The main benefits of this component are due to the allowable weights on bridges. Currendy,
the majority of the bridges have postd limit on weight and they exact high operating costs on trucks that
be to carry less-than-full-load to meet these requirements. Other benefits accrue to the agencies in
charge of maintaining the bridges, in the form of reduced routine maintenance of the replaced bridges.
An analysis of the project flows (costs and benefits) resulted in an overall rate of return of 103%, for this
project component.
ILA. AIORT COMPONENT
12.   Rehabilit  the runway pavement of Lima airport has direct and indirect benefits. Direct
befits include: (a) net income to the government from  upenditres by foreign tourists while in the
country; (b) benefit to CORPAC from savings in lifecycle maintece costs following the rehabilitation;
(c) net income to CORPAC from landing and take-off charges for aircraft and airport use charges from
passengers; (d) benefits due to time and cost savings accruing to passengers, cargo, and airline
companies; and (e) Increased comfort, convenience, and above all safety to the airport users. Indirect
benefits are effects on labor and employment as well as multiplier effects on the economy.
13.   An economic analysis was performed to quantify the direct benefits of type (a) and (c) above.
The following assumptions were made to accommodate data deficiencies:
(i)    No construction of a new parallel runway in the medium term.
(u)   The new runway will be rehabilitated for a useful life of 20 years.
(iii) The rehabilitation works will be performed within segmented time blocks, maintaining
the operation of the airport the rest of the day.
(iv) The runway would be rehabilitated using an asphalt overlay of 23 cm thickness at a cost
of US$24.7 million. This cost includes works on the taxiway, airfield lighting and
instrument landing system, as well as construction supervision.
(v) The estimated annual cost of runway maintenance *without the projecta is US$120,000
and wifth the project" is US$20,000.



-132-                               AiNEX 14
(vi)   Without the project, it was assumed for the economic evaluation that operafions at the
airport for wide bodied aircR wold be suspended by January 1996, and those for
narrow bodied aircraf would be sspended by January 1999 (CORPAC's estimations).
(vii)  Fromn January 1996, the aliports of Pisco, Las Pamas, and Collique could be used to
accommodate traffic diverted from the Lima airport, In accordanc with the
characteristics and capacities of their respective infrastructures. If the Pisco airport Is
used, it imposes a 4-hour drive for those passengers whose destination is Lima.
(viii) The registred movement of passengers and their peacentage distribution between
interional and national traffic in 1991, wil remain costant during the analysis period.
OLx)   The structure and distribution of origin and destiations of the passenger traffic Cn
percentage) calculated In 1991 wiUl remain constat as follows: (a) South America 35%,
(b) Centra America 8%, (c) United Saes 41%, (d) Europe 15 %, and (e) others 1%.
(x)    The breakdown of passengers from intatonal flights, provided by the General
Direcre of Immigration for 1992, is assumed to remain constant during the analysis
period as follows: Peruvian residents 62%, and non-Peruvian residents 38%.
(xi)  It was esimated that, in 1991, the average turist stayed 13.4 days and spent during this
period an average of USS1,700. Lima airpr served 2,344,212 passengers, of which
977,536 came from international flights. Approximately 38% (371,464 passengers) of
these were registered as non-residents in Peru or as touists. With the above figures,
tourists generated an income of US$631,489,000. In other words, tourism alone
generates in one year more than 23 times the estmated costs of rehabilitaing the runway
of Lima airport.
Economic Impacts on Nadonal Income from Tourist TraMc
14. The possibility of progressive restrictions of airport operations could provoke a significant
reduction in the volume of tourist. Additionaiy, the deviation of wide bodied aircraft (which could
ocr in January 1996 if no action is take to repair the Lima runway) to alteave airports, would
result in a significat loss of tourists visitng Pem.
15.   With regard to such potental responses, a coneative 20% reduction in tourist traffic is assumed
from Januay 1996 through the end of the analysis period of l0 yeas. The losses to the country, in
terms of gross income from tourism, would approximate US$126 million annualy. Assuming that 7%
of the gross income is a social benefit accring to the economy at large (a figure based on past analyses
of income flows from tourism), the consequent economic indicators result:
NPV @12% discount rate            13 millon
B/C @12% discount rate     =      1.98
IERR                       =     25%
Therefore, the runway rehabilitation of Lima!s airport is economically justified, even if only a fraction
of the potei beneft are considered.
Net Income to COIRPAC from Airport Se-vices
16. CORPAC currently collects about US$12 million annually in fees for rendered services to
ionaltraffic. AboutS7% ofthisincomeresultsfromroutenavigationserces, 41% fromlanding
and take-off fees, and the remaining 2% from aircraft parking charges. Close to 91% of the total Income



-133-                              ANNEX 14
to CORPAC origintes from heavy aircraft. n addition to income ftom Intemational raffic, CORPAC
derives revenues from charges to national traffic for the us of hangars, passenger service charges,
liceoses and cerificates for airworthiness, and other charges. This aalysis considers only the income
from intenational traffic.
17.   The progressive closure of the airport would Induce a significnt reducton of income to
CORPAC. Such losses are in the order of 40 percent of its cumrt income for the firt stage of closure
(1996-1998) and 80 percent for the second stage of closure (ater 1998). These losses are respectively,
US$4.7 million annually for the first stage, snd US$9.4 million annually for the subsequent stage of
closure. As shown below for an analysis period of 10 years, the runway rehabilitation is also economica
from the viewpoint of CORPAC's income generation.
NPV @12% discount rate     =     6 milion
B/C @12% discount rate     =     1.6
ERR                        =     18%
m RAIL COMPNENT
18.   Ihe inita concern was whether the railway mode has an economic fute fo transport in Peru.
A comparative analysis was made between road and rail in two tsort corridors, which clearly showed
ta the railway continues to play a vital economic role in Per's transport system. The financial viability
of the railway with project investments is presented in Annex 6. The following section deals with the
economic benefits of the planned investments.
Bosc Investment Packa
19.   The benefit of railway investments derive from three main sources: (a) ways and structures -
rack rehabilitation and repair, and etension of switchbacks; (b) rolling stock and mechanical equipment -
- locomotive and wagon repairs and spare parts for maineace workshops; and (c) telecommunications -
- radio and dispatching systems. Annex 6 gives a dtailed breakdown of the invatments by railway. A
tota of US$35 million will be invested, broken down into: US$9.54 mfllion to FCC; US$21.24 million
to FCS; and US$4.22 million to FCSO. The breakdown by type of investment for each railway is:
Railway      Ways & Strucures       Rolling Stock    Telecom
FCC                 26%                 63%            11%
FCS                 60%                 36%            4%
FCSO                49%                 32%            19%
20.   Benefits dering from ways and strucures investments include: (a) safety ivemen  as a
reslt of reductions in the number of accidents and derailments; (b) improvement in operating speed;
and (c) improved productivity of labor and capital due to more efficient movements on the tack.
21.   Investments in roiling stock have the poteal to: (a) improve locomotive availability and hence
reduce delays in traffic handling; (b) improve the reliability of the rolling stock; (c) increase the efficiency
of rolling stock in tem of fiel consumption and tonnage/capacity per rolling unit. All these beneft
allow a railway to handle the same amount of traffic, with less equipment, and hence lower operating
costs.



-134-                                     14
22.   Telecommunicatons Improv        result in more fficint opeatons due to: (a) potenta
reduedons in the number of staton opators hence impwoving labor productivity; (b) increased sfety In
dispatching; (c) eductio     trainb   delys; and (d) better utiizaon of equipment as a rest of
coordinat  schedules. Ihese beeft allow a ralway to use fer traim, of longer lengths, and les
cw.
Zconomie E"vauton
23.   Using these srtr  of poenti benefit and tih technically feasible nvesm     packges far
each railway In Anex 6, an economic evauation was done. Four scenaios were nayzed:
(i) sario 00 - the curren ituation, without investment;
(I) scenario 10 - staff reductions, without investent;
(il) sceario 01 - investment without staff roductio; and
(d) scenario 11- staff reductions with insments.
An Incremental analysi was perfomed to separatey quantif the bnefs of the: (a) staff reduction plan
wihout iw me  in emergency works; (b) investents in emgenyq works wihout the staff reduction
plan; and (c) the joint bnfit of the staff reduction pln and the   ency rehabilition.
24.   Wi regrd to the staff reducdon plan which is expected to be completed by end-1994, most
mloyees leaving ENAFER are at retrement age, and are thus not expected to be gaily employed
afte r         Hence theo mjor economic benefit of the staff reducdons accer to dte cash flows of
he railways. The planned reducdons by railway ae as follows:
Average Number of Employees
Raiway       1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
FCC          1955  1835  1549  1230  912   615
FCS          2514  2456  2242   1800   13S7  950
FCSO         799   726   697   559   420   292
2S.   It is  umed for the analysis *t:h 0) without the staff reduction plan, the raiways wil maintain
their 1993 staff levels; (u) with th staff reduction plan, the staff levels achieved after 1995 will be
constant for the remaining period of analysis; (111) contractud services wihout the staff reduction plan
wil rnmain constat at 1992 leves; and tv) contact  seices with the staff reduction plan wil be
ncroased to meet the work volumes genea   per year by the raiways.
26.   With rgd to the projected trafc and reiablity, the analysis uses coevatve asumptions to
foea the benefits of the project In partia, it is assmed dt there wi  be no gowth in traffic and
tat the mat  dare for rail wMI remain contt at cmrent levds. Mhe planned emegenq works under
the project are ufficient to just keep the raltway opratl until privaizato taks place. Under tie
nvestm  plan, thero. there is no additional capacity. he  iways will only have what is neessay
to mahntai ext  lvels of traffic. Any beneft to the raiway accruing as a resut of more effient
operations beyond those resulting from improved reliabilty of their rolling stock, will be over and above
the ones qunfied in this naysis. Without merc  investmes, the current operations of the



|a  0  S]g          tIII'4X
iUt  ji'              u.u2w4!
t hi    IIg          111111* s i
iii Iii  . "l*1Ea llsS



-136-
PERU - Trsport ReabtatIon Project
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
Enviromnental Issues
1.    Environmental issues of the proposed project are mainly related to the road component. lhe
railways component presents some environmental concerns especially in the maintence and workshop
units. The non-motorized transport component has important positive evironmental impacts for the city
of Lima.
THE ROAD COMPONENT
2.    The principal environmental issues related to the proposed roads concern indirect impact. As
the project is mainly rehabilitation, the direct impacts on natural systems and tights-of-way are less
impot   . However, there is evidence of increased erosion, slope stability and drainage impacts in the
existing roads caused by original improper design and construction and absence of good maintenance
practices. These problems will be addressed in the present project and the appropriate mitigation
measures identified for the design and construction of rehabilitation works. As existing rights-of-way
cross thmugh some sensitive areas (national forests mainly), construction practices need to be controlled
in order to minimize eomental effects during construction.
3.    Local Non-Governmental Organizatons (NGOs) and govenment officials do not foresee any
major ecological or natural resource conflicts in relation to the proposed road projects. There is no
indication that there will be additional direct impacts on existng wildlands or protcted (existng or
proposed) areas.
4.    However, there is some concem that the improvement of some roads in the Selva Region might
increase legal and illegal exploitation of naural resources (timber), exertng additional pressure on
xistng and proposed protected areas. In addition, road rehabilitation might accelerate land tenure
conflicts in areas where the government is developing agricultural and land titling programs.
5.    The magnitude and importance of these indirect effects, together with the improvement of
environmental conditions along existing roads and mechanism to control environmental impacts during
constuction, vary from road to road.
6.    At present MTCC's institutional capability to address environmental issues associated to road and
other trasportation projects is weak or non-eistent. It is therefore important that, under the proposed
Transport Sector Rehabilitation Prject, MTCC initiate and promote attention to environmenta issues in
order to manage this and future road and transport projects.
7.    Il ere are then three principal categories of environmental concerns related to this project. They
Include:
(a)    The need to minimize and control environmental impacts of proposed roads.
(b)    The need to strengthen MTCC's institutional capability to manage environmental issues
related to road and transport projects.



-137-                              ANNE 15
(c)    The need for adopting an             mamud or environmenl   guideine  for
construction, robabiitaton and mainte practices.
Fayironmaital  ssessment otProposed Roads
8.    An EA study was caried out by the Borrower with a group of local consultants under the
coordination of an lutenaotio  consultant, fhanced by the Japanese Grant Fund. The specialties of the
consultant group included environmel geology, terresti  ecology, agricltural economics ad
enionmental asessment. MTCC assigned three counterparts to participate in the EA prepartion.
9.    Ihe EA was completed in June 1993, and MTCC has agreed to take all neceary steps to ense
the ImplemenaI of the migativ measures idendfied.
10.   The main economic actvity in the area of influence of the proposed roads is agriculture, with
migratory pa     in specific areas; many of the production systems are unsusinable which has caused
a great deal of defbrestadto and soil degradation in those areas. lnport hucs  of land In the area of
iuence are dedicated to coca clivation. An importat segment of the population along existing
cridors lives in extreme poverty. Legal and illegal logging both in protected and unprotected ara is
a mijor actvity in border w.
11.   Key eniro           issues identified in the study include: inasing pressure on natural resources
In existing and prposed protected areas; soil degradation, itabilit and drainage related problems along
coridors; disposal of constuction wastes in sensitive eironmental ecosystems; land use and dding
conflicts in local and naive commnites; displacement of some dwellings by road widening or
reulgpment; recovery of already affcted archaeological sites; and local viro   and social impacts
during construction. Positve impacts include improvement of local economies, reduction of time of
travel for  o   n  of local products, and reduction of aesetic and healti hazards by dust in towns
and viages.
12.   Te study evaluated the magnitude and importance of the above issues and a series of mitigative
meases to be undertake by MICC were identified. Some of these measures will be incorporated in
project design. Odher measures involve different govenment instuons of Peru and MTCC has agreed
to iIitiate concts to formalize all necessary agreements or' conenios' to implement them. Table I
summaiz  major eniromnt issues and mitigative measures identified in the study.
13.   As some of the road links induded in the EA study have been taken out of the proposed loan,
MICC should adjust the recommeIons and mmigative measures accordingly  However, as the
Pucalpa - Tfmgo Maria link will be designed under the proposed loan, the proposed study for ecological
zoning and forestry manageme  in the area of influence of this road (see Table 15-1) should be
undertakn siutanously. MIXC, in coordination with INRENA (Naural Resources Institute) will
prepae terms of reference for this sudy.



-138-                                ANNEX 15
Table 15-1: Pkindpal Envirom    tal Impacts and Mitigatve Maure
Impact              Road link/cotion                 Mitigative Measures
Instability, land slides    Selva roads              Slope stabilization, drainage works,
revegetation programs; included in
road designs.
Erosion                 All roads                    Drainage, slope revegetation program;
included in road designs.
Increasing pressure on    Selva roads, specially     Watershed management plans;
wild lands; expansion    Pucalipa-Tmgo Maria        technical assistance to INRENA for
of agriculturil frontier                             ecological zoning study.
Increasing legal and    Selva roads, specially       Technical assistance to INRENA for
illegal timber          Pucallpa-mago Marfa          ecological zoning study. Enforcement
exploitation                                         of forestry laws.
Land tenancy conflicts   Selva roads, specially     Incorporate potential conflict areas in
Pucallpa-lingo Maria         the PETr-IDB program (Special Land
Titling Project).
Increasing migration to   Selva roads                Technical assistance to INRENA for
border towns                                         ecological zoning study.
Displacement of urban    Palca, Moquegua and Torata   1. Survey of affected dwellings.
dwellings                                            2. Community Agreement Act.
3. Design of needed works and
incorporaing them in road costs.
4. Community meetings.
l _________________     ______________________       5.    Special road  safety/signals.
Effects on archeological  Camata or Pampa Colorada    Specific archeological study.
sites                                                Construction waste management;
technical assistance to the Cultural
e _______________                                    Institute of Peru.
Effects on sensitive    All roads                    Selection and enforcement of
environmental areas:                                 construction waste sites. All sensitive
wetlands, water intaces,                             areas have been identified. These
irrigation canals                                    areas must be included in bidding
documents.
Construction activities    All roads                 Adopting environmental guidelines for
contractors.



-139-                               ANNEX 15
Earonmnuatal Insttutlonal Srengthening of MTCC
14. Ithe existng Law for Environment and Natural Resources (C6dlgo del Medio Ambiente y los
Recusos Naturaes, Decree 613) was established in September 7, 1990. Article 7 of this law required
the aroval of environmental impact studies by the 'competent athority" for different kind of projects
including roads and other type of transportation projects. Ihis article was revoked in late 1992 by the
Legitive Decree 757 General Law for the Growth of Private nvesatment (Laey Marco para el
Crecimiento de la Inversidn Privada). However, Article 50 of this new law defines that the "competent
authority" to deal with issues related to the enforcement of the Environmental Law is the Ministry of each
sector. Fubternore, Article 51 of the same law establishes that each competent authority (that is the
ities) will determine for each sector the activities which present environmental risk which could
exceed tolerable levels or standards of pollution or environmental damage in such a way that they will
necessarily require environmental impact studies before implementing such activities.
15. It is clear then that MTCC has an overall responsibility to address environmental issues for the
transpo, communications, housing and constuction sectors in Peru. The new Law for the Transport,
Communications, Housing and Construction Sectors (Law 25862, November, 1992) creates a Directorate
of Eironment (Direcci6n General de Medio Ambiente, DGMA) in "charge of proposing policies
conaning the improvement and control of the quality of the environment". DGMA is under the Vice-
ministry of Housing and Construction and is currently staffed by personnel of the previous Housing
n8ls  E        o      Directorate which only addressed urban related issues (solid wasts, waste
watr collection and tement, landscape works, housing standards, among other issues).
16.   Therefo, MICC has two options to comply with the existing environmental regulation and to
promote an adequate environme    management of sectorial projects. These options are:
(a) Explicitly include functions and staff within DGMA to manage environmental aspects of road and
anort projects in addition to the existing housing and urban related issues.
(b) Create an Enviromental Unit or Environmenal Office in the Road Directorate (Direcci6n
General de Caminos) or in a position that will enable supervision of all sub-sectors. This unit
would only address emvironmenta issues of sectorial projects different from the urban issues of
the current DOMA.
17. Regardless of the option taken (although the first option will probably be selected by MICC),
the evironmental unit or staff within DGMA will initially have a small core staff of about two to three
persons and grow as more road and transportation projects are being implemented. Required
specializations for DGMA staffing should include terrestria ecology, environmental engineering, rur
sociology and geography. The unit should inialy draw on existing in-house staff in the Ministry in
order to deal with geological and law-related problems. Prior to loan negotiations, MTCC officially
created this enviromental unit and defined its staffing.
18.   A mamnal of functions and environmental screening procedures for this unit was prepared as part
of the EA study. Ihe specific functions of the environmental office for the management of sectoral
nvirnmental issues include:
(a) Advise the Minister on envitonmental concerns in the transport sector.
(b) Establshmt of enviromental policies and procedures in MTCC.



-140-                               ANN   I
(c) Establishment of environmental screening and categoization procedures for sector projec.
(d) In support of the medium term planning of MTCC, incorporate environmental issues in tho
execution of feasibility and design studies.
(e) Preparation of terms of reference for necessary environmental studies.
(t) Ensuring that the recommendations of the envirormental impact studies are followed in the field
during construction, operation, and maintenance activities.
(g) Ensuring compliance with the Environment Manual for Contractors (see para 19 below) during
road construction, rehabilitation and mantenance.
(h) Ensuring that all contracts and bidding documents incorporate the appropriate enviromen
requirements.
) Coordinate with other agencies In the government of Peru with environmenl fumctions in those
aspects where intersectoral or national issues are raised.
() Monitor environmental factors and maintin a data base for the sector.
Environmental Manual for Road Contractors
19.   An Environmental Manual for Road Contractors to be adopted by MTCC was prepared as part
of the EA study. The purpose of this manual is to establish specific rules for minimiing   ir ent
damage during the construction and rehabilitation of roads. Ihe mana defines specific penaltie for
each type of envronl violation by individual employees as well as by contracting companies.
Examples of the topics included in th manusal are:
(a) Applicable environmental and natural resource legislation that contractors hawe to comply wih
during constuction and maintenance activities.
(b) Explicit prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines for work crews, specially along
sensitive areas.
(c) Proper selection and management of quarries, borrow pits, gravel extraction along rvers, ad
other sources of construction material; eventual rehabilitation of affected areas hrougb soil
replacement and revegetat}on.
(d) Selection of camp sites, management of camp wastes and guidelines for camp dismaing ad
abandonment.
(e) Proper disposal of excavated earth and spoil mater  to avoid  otminaing streams or oiher
unnecessary enviromnental damage.
(f) Proper disposal of wastes from construction machinery and equipment (buned ofls, parts, semi-
solid wastes).



-141-                              ANNE 15
THE RAILWAY COMONENT
20.   Principal environmental concerns of thi component are rlated to watwater collecton,
treatment, and disposal and solid waste handling and disposal in workshops and mnaintenace units. None
of the existing units have run-off collecdon systems and oil or grease traps; however, oil recycling is a
standard practice in all workshops. Solid waste disposal is carried out in open dumps in places along
railroad tracks. Fumes, gas and smoke pollution in workshops is high. Industrial safety and preventive
health aspects are lacking for maintenance workers. The design of major improvements of existing or
new maintenance yards for this component will include: ventilation improvements, industrial safety
equipment storage, standard industrial safety training, and design of control measures in existing refizse
dumps.
THE NON-MOTORIZED TRANSPORT COMPONENT
21.   This component represents a major positive environmental impact in the city of Lima. It will
improve air quality conditions by reducing gasoline consumption, and reduce noise pollution and traffic
congestion. It will also reduce transportation costs for poor workers in the city.



-142-                              A       L
PERU - Transport Rhbligtaton Projed
MSEL DOCJMEM m gDMpT AYALA= IN nm IERM mg^c
Ove1l Project
1.    Reglamero Unico de Adqudskcones, lstiuto Nacional de Administracid Pdblica
2.    Reglamento Unico de Licitaclones y Contratos de Obras Piblicas, CAPECO, Agosto do 1992
3.    Objetivos y Prindpales Acdvldades 1990-1992, Ministerio de Transportes, Comunicaciotes,
Vivienda y Construccidn, Lima, 1992
Roads
4.    Norma Perumaspara el Disefio de Carea, Miuseo de Tranportes y Co ca ,
Direccidn de   auctura Vial, 1970
5.    Evalcl6n: Carretera Taao  - Rioja, Ndstor Palacios, UCPP, May 1992
6. EvaluIacldn Proyetao: Tanna - San Ram6n, Nestor Palacios, UCPP, May 1992
7.    Evaluacidn Proyecto Rioja - Corral Quemado, NEstor Palacios, UCPP, Sepmb  1992
8.    Contrto de Prf o PeuW, 7 de enero 1992
9.    Programa deR ey n                 ede Cweteras, BID, Informe SemestrW enero-juno
1992
10.   Base y TMminos de Rerenca para la Selecicn de Conskores, Estdos 05, 06, 07, MTCC,
Unidad Ejeoctiva del Progrma BID, Octabre de 1993
11.   Pgroama de Relhabikacidn de biergencla de Carretws Robin C. Carruthers, JosE BL
Bacigalupo, Reptblics del Perd, Mlnlsterio de Transpottes y Comuicaciones
12.   Gauflcadn de la Red Val, Plaeamiento Normas y Especificaciones TEWnicas, Direcci6n
General de Caminos, December 1982
13.   Idejtcacl6n y Defldcln del Componente de Carmteras de Proyecto Reha  dn de Sector
Thnsportes, Rolando Flores, Gladys Perona Buder, UCPP, Mayo 1993
14.   Manual Ambental para Disefos y Constucdn de V(s, M Ainistero de Transports,
Comunicacion, Vivienda y Contruccidn, Lima, 1993
15.   Esdl de Inqao Amblental de Proyecto de    abtacln de Vas en d Pern, Hernm
Aistzabal, Antonio Chavez, Wlfiredo Gut[rrez, Josd Rios, UCPP, Julio de 1993
16.  D&flddn  dl CWponene de Segidad Val, Sergio PaWn Lozno, Julio de 1993



-143-                              AN X 16
17.   Ewvuacidn Econdmica de los Componemes Wales, Lufs Girardotti, UCPP, Marzo de 1993
18.   Evaluacfon del Sub-Coponhnte Pemes, Renln Garcha de los Rfos, UCPP, June 1993
19.   Flnanciamlento y AdmbzLractdn de Caminos, Jaime Carramifiana, Julio de 1993
20.   Sistema Naclonai de Mantenimlento de Carreteras - SINMAC, MTCC, Septiembre de 1993
21.   Evauad6n Econ6mica del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Carretera Tarapoto-Aoyobanba-
Rioja, Lufs Girardotti, UCPP, Agosto de 1993
22.   Evaluacd6n Econdmlca del Proyecto de Mejoramlento de la Carretera La Merced-Chanchamayo-
Saio, Lufs Girardotti, UCPP, Agosto de 1993
23.   Evauacdn Econdmica del Proyecto de Mejoramleno y Rehablltacdn Carretera Thrma-La
Merced, Lu(s Girardotti, UCPP, Agosto de 1993
24.   EvaluackOn Econdmica del Proyeao de Mejoramknto y Rehabiltacldn Carretera Thngo Marfa-
Pucallpa, Lufs Girardotti, UCPP, Agosto de 1993
25.   Evaluacin Econdmica del Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Carretera Corral Quemado-Pdoja,
Lus Girardottl, UCPP, Agosto de 1993
26.   Evaluacn Econdca del Proyecto de ReabilitaciOn de la Carretera Huanuco-Ihigo Marta,
Lu6s Girardotti, UCPP, Agosto de 1993
Rlways
27.   Sftuact6n de la empresa y montos globles aproxmados de bliersun para rehlabUtact6n,
ENAFER, September 1992
28.   Investment Program - Base Costs, ENAFER, July 1993
29.   Enqfer Strategic St* - Phase I Report, CANAC International, March 12, 1993
30.   Enafer Straegic Study - Phase I Report, CANAC hIeraional, July 1993
AhVort
31.   Memoria, CORPAC, 1990
32.   Proyecto de rezabUftacl6n de las p stas del aeropuerto internmcaonal de Lbma/Callao Jorge
gdvez, DGTA/OACI
33.   Aeropuerto Imernacional "Jorge OIdVez LlmaUCa11ao, Proyecto de RehobitaclOn de
Pavinenos, Infme Tecnico, Federico Dovalf, ICAO, November 1993
34. Estrategia de Desarrollo del Aeropuerto Intemnadonal Jorge Omvez - Lma-Call4o
35.   Privatilon Proposal, Aeropod, September 1992



.144-                              AN=  16
36.    SW" FLmncderos a 31 de Diembre 199
37.   SWst de Acdones por Desarroar en la Coiporacdn y Proyectos PiwWos en el Aewpw
Jorge Oadwz Hl0c  y Acduazadeel 31 de Dklembem 1991, CORPAC S.A.
38.   Balawe General od 31-12-92. al 31-08-92, a1 31-12-90. d 31-12-89, Coptacidn Poaua de
Aewopuertos y Aviacidn Comal, S.A.
P"motom of NonMotodre Tnspot In Uns
39.   Progromas Propue.uos para Solicitr Cooperacdn Mlcna Interacional at Banc Mund par
1. Mul     dad de Lim Metrop_a, Municipalldad do Li  Metpol , 1992
40.   Plan Integral de hranspor  VehcWar No Motodw  y Con rdn de aclovtas en LXma
Maeropolkana, IMP, December 1991
41.   Euesta de Opbni  a Enpleadosy Th*Wado&m soft Transpte no MotorWado, Cuto S.A.,
Lia, July 1993
42.   Pre rse  de SecetaratX   udpo;  _P?Wueo de E)npisas Mw*ipks, MLM budget
reorts for 1992 and 1993
43.   Presu    o de C pa Munia de Qdlo Poplar de Lma, CMCPL budget rporti for 1993
44.   Pla de Desarrogo Maropilao de Lbnaea 1990-2010, development plan for the Lima-
Callao metropolitan amea



MAP SECTION



ECUADOR 'n
<                        /        ,:        i       C O t O ~~~~~~~    ~      ~~~M BiA  
o_.a._;\"~ ~~~~                                          COLOMBIA 
2_0 so  to0 ISO n0 0220
4* tP V                         ."     ' p) 
.4"~                                     ~                                            ~ /  I ;  g7Rj::MOfT
C.     U     EJM)    )                 'i                                                         I   NWRR
w_t qo ( 5 s t ; *                   HA                                                  I   P     AL
Il   *2 V . to  ;fs                                   PAVERS
PIuaAJ                                     '-'I lCG w>-~ N EISU0Rf
OTERAU-ETER RItROADS
RAILROADS (OTHER)
LAfftt                                                           AJ $ 4 T    j  
'S.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~RM
<TtRANSPORODt  ' j B        REAB LITATIMN
P   A   C   p   f   /     \  w   )*/  t   A         rt     ,~~~~~~~~U CA YA 
of,    B, RUU                                           A Z\  I CL -
Sb.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.  .              ,s.             'w'>s) T
O   C   E   A    N   8>, <,g, AYACUC HOMAD; E DE DIO
14-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                              :,     IMACH"
TRNPR                                           AYACUB I L ;4
--- ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ URJC  N 0 f    0 
.    ,                                                           \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*1t   '  . .   ''   '      '   '                      ';   ; ' 'e'    7         "'?    ''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii
, i,} . 7* 7- - - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t t@v k.  HE 



.___________________.__________________-______________ ____ __  .I. 18RD  25105
P E R U
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT                                            ToAnc6n                   ToAnc6O
PILOT PROJECT FOR NON-MOTORIZED TRANSPORT
LIMA
jOy~] BICYCLEWAYS TO BE BUILT
TARGET AREA OF INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT
-      MAIN ROADS
|1---  |ENAFER RAILROAD
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
1  / O' Comos
01234567  8 9 10
KILOMETERS                                                        a
75 -K~                         
'<    COLOMBIA -     '
-0.~~~ 
ECUADORj      _
L%y  ~        ~~~~ BR A ZIL                                      a4           *
tima    ' ~                                               Los   iv        /
>   15--    |    fSon Martin de Porres 
S BOLWIA Z a1 BOLIVIA                                                             pendencia
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\             ;                                                  a\
b>^T6 WOWo &WAI staff                                   /                        s 
bo Shwv d                           RPOitRT  \\<                \                        Rimac
an W=s xaap & not itp, on 6 0X\\\\\eZz                                                    -
a~~~~~~~~
PERU'^*^+                                                           a WA|lAO \\z       
lior              ,1                                         Lost  ivos==I
.1                                                    aue )Pel r/1\
La Punta                    ~>_   -ff_                               /  /           ) a
p cl C I jf, >a  M                                         e PrC e c  aa
SEPTEMBER 1993



