Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21501
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37170; SCL-3717A; SCPD-3717S; TF-23012; COFN-04180)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
December 22, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Sol Nuevo
1 Sol Nuevo = US$ 0,284
US$ 1 = 3,52 Soles
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEPRI         -       Special Privatization Committee
CMCPL         -       Lima Municipal Bank for Popular Credit
COPRI         -       Commission for the Promotion of Private Investment
CORPAC        -       Peruvian Airport and Commercial Aviation Corporation
DGC           -       General Directorate of Roads
DGTA          -       General Directorate of Air Transport
ECLAC         -       U.N. Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
ENAFER        -       National Railway Company
FCC           -       Central Railway
FCS           -       Southern Railway
FCSO          -       South-eastern Railway
GDP           -       Gross Domestic Product
GTZ           -       German Agency for Technical Assistance
ICAO          -       International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB           -       International Competitive Bidding
IDB           -       Inter-American Development Bank
IERR          -       Internal Economic Rate of Return
IMP           -       Metropolitan Planning Institute
IRI           -       International Rouglmess Index
KfW           -       German Development Bank
LCB           -       Local Competitive Bidding
LIB           -       Limited International Bidding
MEF           -       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MLM           -       Municipality of Metropolitan Lima
MTCC          -       Ministry of Transport, Communications, Housing and Construction
NGO           -       Non-Governmental Organization
NMT           -       Non Motorized Transport
PCU           -       Project Coordination Unit
PPF           -       Project Preparation Facility
SINMAC        -      National Highway Maintenance System
SOE           -       Statement of Expenditure
UCPP          -       Loan Coordination and Preparation Unit
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager    Jeffrey Gutman
Task Team Leader    Paul Guitink



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
PERU
TRANSPORT REHABILITATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     I 1
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   15
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 30
Annex 8. Borrowers Report of Completion of the First Transport Rehabilitation Project  33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008045                                       Project Name: TRANSP.RHB
Team Leader: Paulus A. Guitink                            TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 27, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSP.RHB                                     L/C/TFNumber: CPL-37170;
SCL-3717A;
SCPD-3717S;
TF-23012;
COFN-04180
Country/Department: PERU                                                 Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways; TW - Railways; TY - Other
Transportation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/16/92                                Effective: 07/26/94
Appraisal:  01/17/94                                  MTR: 02/24/96
Approval:  03/17/94                                Closing: 12/31/99            06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY/TRANSPORT
Other Partners: Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles S.A. (ENAFER), Municipality of Lima,
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW), OPEC, Japanese Trust Fund
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                         Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      Jeffrey Gutman                             Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:   Paul Guitink                             Gerhard Menckhoff
ICR Primary Author:   Oswaldo Patino
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L-=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HlJNHighly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was the first investment loan to Peru since 1986 and was designed to address needs that
were critical to achieve a renewed economy and social development. Its main objectives were to: (1)
rehabilitate essential transport infrastructure; (2) assist Government in implementing institutional reforms
in the road and railway subsectors, aiming at improved resource use and sustainable development; and
(3) lay the ground work for future projects focussing on strengthened road management, increased
private participation in the transport sector, and improved mobility of the poor.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions of the project objectives, which remained clear and unchanged over the life of
the loan.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objectives described above, the project included the following components: 1. Roads. This
component comprised (i) the rehabilitation of six national road sections, totaling 725 km in length (45% of
total project cost); (ii) a bridge rehabilitation program involving the acquisition of a minimum stock of
Bailey bridges, recovery of Bailey bridges and the reconstruction of derelict old bridges; (iii) execution of a
pilot road maintenance program on about 620 km of roads feeding directly into Corral Quemado-Rioja
Tarapoto corridor; (iv) equipment to strengthen the national road laboratory; (v) a traffic safety program to
fornulate a comprehensive traffic safety strategy, followed by the acquisition and use of urgently needed
safety materials in accordance with the strategy established; and (vi) a design of future road rehabilitation
schemes to strengthen transport planning capabilities and design packages of future investment projects; 2.
Railway Rehabilitation and Restructuring. This component had as an objective to prepare ENAFER, the
national railway company, for privatization through the execution of the most urgently needed investments
to keep ENAFER operating during the preparation of its privatization including: track rehabilitation,
locomotives and wagons rehabilitation, lengthening of switchbacks, telecommunications works and
acquisition of track maintenance equipment; 3. Runway Rehabilitation at Lima Airport. This component
included the rehabilitation of the main runway with a projected 20-year lifetime of new pavements, the
installation of new airfield lighting and instrument landing system, and the rehabilitation of the parallel
taxiway; 4. Pilot Project for Non-Motorized Transport in Lima. This component consisted of
constructing four trunk bicycle ways together with bicycles-lanes to provide connections to low- and
middle- income residential areas and parking facilities, providing sub-loans for the purchase of low-cost
bicycles, and canying out educational and promotional campaigns; 5. Technical Assistance and Training.
Two main areas were identified for policy assistance: (i) improvements to road administration and finance
and (ii) organizational reform of MTC. Also, the TA included resources for advisory services and training
for the agencies responsible for the highway, railway and non-motorized transport components and for the
project management program.
3.4 Revised Components:
Without changing the project objectives, the project cost components and physical targets were revised and
funds reallocated in March 1996. The reallocation was required because of an increase of road
rehabilitation costs reflected in the bids and a restructuring of the proposed runway rehabilitation
componet. The road component was increased from the original appraisal estimate of US$153.32 million
to US$227.94 million, while the airport component was reduced to US$11.65 million from the planned
US$30.2 million. In addition, the road maintenance works program was cancelled and funds in the amount
of US$10.8 million were reallocated. Only US$300,000 of this subccmponent was disbursed to finance a
pilot road maintenance program study.
-2 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS, which supported
policies and investments aimed at sustaining stabilization and consolidating structural reforms, fostering
private development and public sector reform, and rehabilitating key infrastructure and redefining policies
related to its operation, maintenance and finance. However, being the first investment loan to Peru since
1986, the project was demanding, complex and risky. It was demanding because it required coordination
between several implementing units and government institutions to execute physical activities and
institutional reforms; it was complex because it addressed multiple modes such as road, railway and airport
sub sectors, and it was risky because there was a lack of institutional capacity of the implementing agencies
arising from a long period of inactivity and because the infrastructure services were deteriorated
enormously, during the 1980s, due to years of under investments, neglected maintenance, and inability to
make long-term plans. In the road sub-sector, this resulted in insufficient quality of feasibility studies, basic
engineering designs and final designs for the roads to be rehabilitated. The designs did not take into account
the challenging terrain and climatic variables in the project area which resulted in inadequate designs for
critical sections of the roads. To address these problems variation orders and additional works were
required in the implementation phase of the works, resulting in significant cost overruns.
Despite its complexity, the project was generally well designed, although the limited amount of information
and lack of Bank staff experience in the Peruvian road sub-sector at preparation phase of the project was
evident in the limitations of the road feasibility studies and final designs.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The first objective, to rehabilitate essential transport infrastructure, was achieved satisfactorily. The
second objective, to assist Government in implementing institutional reforms, was only partially achieved
because the Government Plan for "Reform of the State" was never undertaken during project
implementation period. And the third objective, to lay the ground for future projects focusing on
strengthened road management, increase private participation in the transport sector, and improved
mobility of the poor, was achieved satisfactorily.
Rehabilitate Essential Transport Infrastructure. The project achieved its aim satisfactorily. At project
completion, the project had addressed the core infrastructure deficiencies through rehabilitation components
in the road, railway and airport sub sectors. In the transport sub-sector, the project supported the
rehabilitation of six key roads linking agricultural areas in northern and central Peru with the Coast. Only
five out of the six road subprojects were completed under the project with substantive impact in the road
network system: Tarma-La Merced, La Merced-Satipo, Huanuco-Tingo Maria, Rioja-Rio Nieva and Rio
Nieva-Corral Quemado. Preparation of the road rehabilitation component was unsatisfactory: at project
effectiveness designs were not ready and their quality was inadequate. This resulted in initial procurement
delays of approximately 15 months and cost over-runs for civil works of approximately 83% due to
underestimation of construction cost during road design. Nonetheless, the project completed 81% of its
physical targets, about 589 km of road rehabilitation and paving works. Achieving these road works was
possible,in part because the funds originally budgeted to the Tarapoto-Rioja road, the Road Maintenance
Program subcomponent and the Runway Rehabilitation at Lima Airport component were reduced and
reallocated to the road rehabilitation subcomponent and in part because the Government local counterpart
contribution increased from US$18.1 million to US$60.82 million. However, it is worth noting that the
physical targets proposed at project appraisal were based on cost estimates produced after a long period of
inactivity in road construction. With the revival of the industry and the economy, these estimated costs
- 3 -



were no longer valid as confirmed by cost overruns in other projects under implementation financed by
other Multilateral Banks during the same period.
The project also supported the rehabilitation of 44 bridges, the recovery of 500 linear meters (I.m.) of
Bailey bridges and acquisition of 500 I.m. of Bailey bridge stocks. The project objective was achieved
marginally satisfactorily through the installation of 15 Mabe Johnson bridges, the replacement of 37
derelict old bridges and the recovery of 540 l.m. of Bailey bridges stocked to support emergency
intervention. The obtained stocks were timely and useful especially during the "El Nifo" Phenomenon,
which destroyed a large amount of bridges in 1998. However, the derelict bridge works contracts could not
be completed fully before the closing date of the project, including the six months extension due to
procurement delays and two bidding processes. Thus, the project financed about 82% percent of the bridge
physical works. The rehabilitation of the derelict bridges was delayed mainly due to an assumed collusion
between bidders. The cancellation of the original bidding process and the subsequent rebidding took a
considerable amount of time, which delayed the initial rehabilitation works for about fourteen additional
months of the appraisal-estimated schedule. Rebidding took place based on postqualification instead of
prequalification used in the first bidding to avoid collusion, and this yielded prices that were almost half of
those in the first set of bids. The Bank agreed to complete the financing of the two bridge replacement
contracts with funding from the El Nino Emergency Loan. As per October 31, 2000, there was an
implementation progress of 91.40% (Maranon-Utcubamba) and 86.48% (Huallaga) of the physical works.
However, because of scarce availability of counterpart funds completion of all bridge works before the
closing date of the "El Nino" loan is still uncertain. Remaining works mainly consist of access ramps
pavement which will be financed with Government funds if not completed before December 31, 2000. A
software Bridge Management System was also developed and staff was trained in applying the system.
In the SAR, the objective of implementing a Road Maintenance Program was addressed through a pilot
road maintenance component of 620 km, which should lay the foundation for a decentralized road
maintenance strategy and strengthening of local institutions. The planning study for the pilot maintenance
program was completed as planned. In February 1996, the study results showed that 340.5 km needed
routine maintenance works while the remaining 294 km required major rehabilitation and reconstruction
with a preliminary cost of US$1.6 million and US$23.7 million respectively. Thus, the physical component
of 620 km of road maintenance could not be achieved because of the prohibitive cost of full implementation
of the program. In addition, the inadequate design quality for the roads to be rehabilitated caused a high
cost overrun in this component, which required the reallocation of the US$10.5 million originally assigned
to the Road Maintenance Program component in the SAR. As a consequence of canceling the pilot
maintenance works, no results became available regarding (i) costs of contracting out maintenance, (ii) the
capacity of local micro-enterprises, (iii) durability of different pavement types under alternative
maintenance strategies, and (iv) training needs. Without these inputs, the formulation of a decentralized
road maintenance strategy and strengthening of local institutions came to a halt.
The Traffic Safety Subcomponent was implemented satisfactorily through the completion of the traffic
safety strategic study and the implementation of key road safety activities. This study allowed for and
recommended to the Government and MTC to create the National Road Safety Council (NRSC) and its
executive secretariat. During the implementation of the project, the Council was established and a traffic
safety unit, supported with project funds, was created. The unit has implemented priority road safety pilot
activities (e.g. accident registration and accident data collection, a National Traffic Sign Manual, Manuals
for Road Safety Education for primary and secondary schools including audiovisuals, technical feasibility
studies for black spot improvements) and has identified, through consultant studies, priority road safety
investrnents to be financed under the proposed Second Transport Rehabilitation Loan. Furthermore, the
creation of the NRSC has brought about the following benefits: (i) enhancing Government officials'
- 4 -



awareness of the road safety problems, (ii) increasing the cooperation between various road safety
stakeholders (police, health and education sector, SINMAC, bus owner association, etc), (iii) producing an
inventory of road safety furniture of main national roads and (iv) identifying priority road segments to
improve road safety conditions.
In order to enhance quality control of road infrastructure feasibility studies, the project supported the
acquisition of technical equipment for the MTC's transport laboratory of soils and mechanics. This
technical equipment has permitted the MTC transport laboratory to perform the role of quality control
office providing services to MTC directorates, SINMAC, PERT and DGC in reviewing technical and final
design feasibility studies since 1998.
In the airport sub-sector, the Runway Rehabilitation Component achieved its intended physical targets
satisfactorily. The component, which included rehabilitation works on the runway and taxiway, was
redesigned when the detailed engineering and the actual performance of the runway showed that major
rehabilitation works were not needed and that with pavement repairs, the runway could provide adequate
service for a lifespan of at least 7 years instead of the 20 years initially planned for, reducing component
cost from US$30.19 million to US$11.65 million. ICAO's pavement expert performed this analysis and
recommended that with superficial repairs (resurfacing and crack sealing) the runway lifespan could be
extended until a second runway is ready for operation. The main runway rehabilitation works was
completed successfully within the planned time frame by the fourth quarter of 1998, without reducing the
operation of the Airport. The component was financed through the OPEC fund (US$5.4 million),
Government counterpart fund (US$5.18 million) and with Bank funds (US$1.07 million). The loan
proceeds were reallocated to defray the additional costs experienced under the road component. With fewer
resources, the Runway Rehabilitation Component achieved its intended physical targets of rehabilitating the
runway and taxiway.
Also, CORPAC has installed, with its own resources and MTC's funds, new ASR 12 primary radar,
secondary radar, and a control center, which will provide good navigational aids and form the basis of the
national aeronautical communications network. An upgraded lighting and an instrument landing system,
planned under the project, were installed and financed by CORPAC. The project also financed the
development of a Master Plan for Civil Aviation, which was intended to provide the basis for strategic
planning in the aviation sub-sector. Based on the Master Plan, CORPAC has prepared individual master
plans for the regional airports.
In the railway sub-sector, the railway component achieved its intended objective satisfactory by transferring
a restructured and functioning railway company to a private concessionaire. The decentralization of
ENAFER management into three cost centers or entities and the staff reduction plan for the three entities
were implemented as planned in the Privatization Strategic Plan proposed in the SAR. With respect to the
physical targets of the component, these were partially achieved mainly due to delays in the procurement of
the sleepers and required spare-parts for locomotives and wagons. As a result, only 383 km out of the 600
km of track rehabilitation, repair of 26 out of 36 locomotive and repair of 370 out of 391 wagons were
installed and completed. These assets together with the remaining sleepers and spare parts not installed
were included as part of the concession package. It should be mentioned that although the project
supporte7a Privatization Action Strategy together with complementary investments, ENAFER's financial
position continued to be acutely questionable during project implementation. Operating revenues in 1998
were about US$34.1 million, but operating and administrative costs amounted US$43 million, and financial
and other costs added US$40.7 million to this figure. During the past ten years operating losses have been
financed by accumulating liabilities - either by not servicing the railway's debt or by deferring payments
for personnel-related contributions to social security, pension and health plans. ENAFER did not receive
- 5 -



any direct subsidy from the Government and, according to 1998-balance sheet, the accumulated losses
amounted US$191 million. These, together with the stagnant rail transport in the country, made the
prospects for ENAFER's privatization challenging and Government had to absorb the accumulated losses.
Nonetheless, the Government has successfully achieved the project aim through the concession of
ENAFER, and from all accounts, with an attractive final bid.
Assist Government in Implementing Institutional Reforms. The original objectives of the project
institutional reforms were to help the Government - especially MTC and MEF - in identifying and
selecting the best alternatives for (a) an organizational structure to manage and administer the national road
system effectively, and (b) a funding mechanism for adequately maintaining and improving the road
system. These institutional reforms were achieved marginally satisfactory despite its implementation
delays, not under the control of PERT or of MTC, but caused by slow progress in the underlying Reform
of the State, as explained under 5.2 hereafter.
Nonetheless, MTC has made significant progress in increasing its efficiency towards: (i) designing a road
concession program to mobilize private sector participation in financing and managing roads, (ii)
developing new service performance-based maintenance contracts to be used in the road maintenance
component of the Second Transport Rehabilitation project, (iii) the reduction of road accidents, injuries and
fatalities through the creation of the National Road Safety Council, (iv) rehabilitating and maintaining
8,500 km of rural roads financed through Bank and IDB loans during 1995-2000, (v) addressing urban
transport problems in Lima-Callao through the creation of the Urban Transport Council for Metropolitan
Lima, (vi) strengthening its road network planning and environmental departments, and the transport
laboratory performing quality control at MTC, and (vii) developing a Bridge Management System for the
General Directorate of Bridges of MTC and SINMAC.
While the preparation of a decentralized road maintenance strategy and strengthening of locainstitutions
was not achieved, MTCC made good progress in establishing a regular road maintenance funding
arrangement for SINMAC through the creation of a 'Fondo Vial' with road toll revenues. Furthermore,
under the loan covenants, there was a clause that stipulated that the Borrower would provide a budget of
not less than US$50 million per year for road maintenance. Since 1995, this budget allocation to MTC has
been provided adequately, reaching US$55.6 million in 1999. As a result, the condition of the road
network has improved, and 4,855 km of the 7,719 km total paved road network, equivalent to 63%, have
been maintained in good condition.
Lay the Groundwork for Future Projects in Three Areas. Strengthened Road Management.
Strengthening of road management is linked to the above-mentioned institutional reforms. The project
achieved its intended objective satisfactorily by improving capacity for long-term planning. With
component funds for designing packages of future investment projects, PERT had completed the final
engineering designs for three road subprojects: Tingo Maria-Pucallpa, Chanchamayo-Villa Rica, and
Rioja-Tarapoto roads. The first two subprojects, worth about US$250 million, will be ready for financing
under a possible operation with the IDB while Rioja-Tarapoto road is already under construction financed
by CAF funds. Furthermore, PERT completed the economic and final design feasibilities studies, including
the environmental impact of the following roads: Tarapoto-Rioja, Tarapoto-Juanjui, Tarapoto-Yurimaguas,
Juanju-Tingo Maria, Ingenio-Chachapoyas, and Chamaya-Jaen-San Ignacio-Rio Canchis. Of these roads,
San Ignacio- La Balsa, Puente Ingenio-Chachapoyas, Tarapoto-Juanjui, and Naranjitos-Corontochaca,
which will be considered for financing under a follow-on operation. Also, the project supported the
preparation of the feasibility studies for the Rural Rehabilitation Project, financed and approved by the
Bank in 1995, and for the proposed Lima Urban Transport Project.
- 6 -



Increased Private Sector Participation. The project objective achieved its intended objective highly
satisfactorily. Railroads. Except for some regional concentration, rail transport represents only a minor
part of Peru's transport system, both in terms of freight (less than 2%) and passenger services (less than
3%). While the sector is likely to remain relatively small, rail transport still has to play an important
economic role in Peru due to its strategic role in transporting key exports products, such as minerals,
petroleum derivatives, and other bulk commodities. Railroad privatization was formally included in the
Peru's privatization program in 1993. The privatization committee focused on the most urgent measures to
keep ENAFER in operation with the support of the project. Since the Government wanted to maintain the
ownership of ENAFER's track, rolling stock and facilities, the committee opted for a long-term 30-year
asset management contract of ENAFER's infrastructure facilities with obligations for open access and
leaseback of rolling stock to maintain open entry for other private providers. The concession process for
the railroads was undertaken in July 1999 and the winning consortium - Consorcio de Ferrocarriles de
Peru--offered the Govermnent a canon of approximately 33% of its revenues as well as investments of
US$30 million. Airports. On November 16, 2000, the Government awarded the airport concession to
Frankfurt- Bechtel-Cosapi Consortium. The concessionaire will pay to the Government a canon of 46.51%
of total operating revenues and provide investments of US$1.5 billion over the 30-year concession period.
The investment program includes the construction of a new terminal and a second runway. The
concessionaire will maintain the runway rehabilitated under the project. Roads. In 1999, the Government
committed itself to expand private sector participation in the financing, construction and management of
roads through a series of laws and decrees with IDB technical assistance. MTC, through a special
committee for roads, identified 11 potential packages of roads consisting of 6,700 km of national roads as
potential candidates for toll roads with private sector participation. Of these, the first road package is
scheduled for concession in the first quarter of 2001.
Improved Mobility of the Poor. This objective aimed at promoting the use of bicycles by low-income
residents and preparing the ground for expanding the use of an environmentally friendly and affordable
transport mode in Lima. The project included the provision of bicycle infrastructure connecting the
Lima-Callao industrial area with low-income residential areas, representing 20% of the metropolitan area
population, with lower than average family (US$355 vs. US$598 average per month) and per capita
(US$83 vs. US$157 average per month) incomes. In addition, the project established a revolving fund at a
non-profit bank to provide access to credits for the purchase of bicycles to low-income workers, and a
promotion campaign to promote the program. The Project objective was satisfactory by constructing 48 km
of dedicated bicycle ways of the original planned 51 km at appraisal, and making available 4,632 bicycles
to low-income workers out of the 6,000 targeted through the revolving fund. Funds for the construction of
an additional 35 km of bike paths on service roads were reallocated during the execution phase to achieve
the original objectives through modifications that created a basic bikepath network, ensured the cleaning
and maintenance of the paths in this pilot phase, and strengthened the promotion campaign, which after a
slow start, because of limited resources, has been successful during 1999, resulting in a rapid increase in
credit applications. Annual savings in transport cost by bicycle users averaged 532 soles or $150.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project achieved its principal components in physical terms and value, and the overall assessment of
project outcome is rated satisfactory. The principal achievement of the project is that there are now 589
km of roads rehabilitated, 52 bridges replaced and improved, a runway and taxiway repaired and
operational at the Lima airport, and the Railway Company concessioned successfully. These components
represent 86% of the total original cost of the project (84% of the total final cost).
The project also achieved its institutional development objective. Important contributions to the firther
-7 -



development of the transport sector include the development of a bridge maintenance system and a Civil
Aviation Master Plan, the strengthening of the Roads Laboratory, the establishment of a National Road
Safety Council, and assistance in the development of a new Transport Law. Although important sector
policy areas such as road user charges and financing of infrastructure investments under public/private
ownership were discussed intensively, the political sensitivity of these issues lead to mixed results. While
packages have been prepared for private sector participation through road concessions, the issue of
decentralization of road maintenance and rehabilitation has not been resolved yet.
By keeping ENAFER operational while the concession process was underway, the project made a
substantial contribution to its successful concessioning. Over the last years ENAFER had net operating
losses of approximately US$10 million per year and accumulated losses of over US$191 million.
4.3 Aet Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Upon completion, the Borrower, using the same methodology and parameters employed in the SAR,
undertook ex-post evaluation analyses. The economic returns were re-evaluated on a set of investments,
especially for road rehabilitation, bridge rehabilitation, railway and runway rehabilitation. (See Statistical
Tables Annex 3 Economic Cost-Benefit Analysis).
Road Rehabilitation. An economic evaluation using HDM III for the five road rehabilitated was
completed. The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the road rehabilitation (66 % of the total
project cost) was calculated and found to be high and consistent with the SAR estimations, about 38. 1%
confirming that the road rehabilitation subcomponent achieved an acceptable level of net benefits, ranging
between 21.10% for Rioja-Corral Quemado and 50.10% for Tarma-La Merced. The main quantified
benefits are (i) the time saving for passengers, (ii) the vehicle operating costs saving due to road
rehabilitation and (iii) saving in routing maintenance. The five road sections showed rates of return greater
than 20 percent. The 589 km are now maintained by SINMAC. However, for the long-term, SINMAC
should move toward the use of performance-based maintenance contracts with the private sector and
enhance the road user charges to improve funding of the Road Maintenance Fund (Fondo Vial).
Bridge Rehabilitation. Cost-benefit analyses were carried out for all bridges with an investment cost higher
than US$0.5 million (seven bridges), based on a condition of the loan agreement and as part of the
preparation of the proposed second Transport Rehabilitation Project. T he benefits considered in the
analysis are a reduction in vehicle operating costs, mainly for trucks, bv avoiding alternative routes which
would need to be taken if the bridges were as severely restricted as they were. These alternative routes are
usually much longer and sometimes in worse conditions. There are also some benefits from diverted
traffic. Bridge project costs include both the initial investment in bridge construction and the recurrent
bridge maintenance cost. The estimated IERRs are extremely positive, ranging between 16% for
Cocahuayco Bridge of the Utcubamba valley and 257.5% for Filatobon Bridge of the Huallaga valley.
- 8 -



Railway Rehabilitation Although the ENAFER three cost centers did not improve their operation and
efficiency, the net operating losses showed a tendency to decline during project implementation period,
reaching on average per year an amount of US$10 million for 1995-98. In the SAR, the estimated overall
financial rate of return for the railway rehabilitation works was 15 percent projecting improvements in the
net cash flow with the proposed investment package. The SAR analysis was made using two scenarios: a
non-investment scenario that would generate a rapid increase in net operational losses and an investment
scenario that would mitigate the net operational losses while awaiting privatization of ENAFER. The
financial rate of return cannot be calculated because of the concession of the company. However, an IERR
has been calculated for the project investments from the point of view of the Government. The successful
concession of ENAFER has brought to the Government the following benefits: (i) the concessionaire will
pay to the Government 33% canon of the gross revenues; (ii) through a credit granted against the canon
payment, the Government has provided an incentive scheme to the concessionaire to make infrastructure
investmnents during the first ten years of the concession. The estimated investment obligations, during the
first five years, are 100% deducted for each dollar invested and, from the years 6 to 10, only 50% is
discounted from payments due to Govermnent; and (iii) as the railroads were making net operating losses of
US$10 million, the Government saves recurrent expense of around US$10 million per annum through this
concession. Based on these benefits, a Net Asset Value of US$23.04 million was calculated, obtaining an
internal economic rate of return over the 30 year concession period of 17.33%. This analysis is not
considering the accumulated liabilities of ENAFER, which have been absorbed by the Government, an
assumption also made in the SAR analysis.
Runway Rehabilitation. The Borrower has carried out an economic analysis ex-post for the rehabilitation
of the Lima International Airport runway based on a useful life estimate of 10 years instead of the 20 years
originally planned for in the SAR. Although the original lifespan estimate for the redesigned runway was 7
years (see page 5), based on the actual good condition of the runway CORPAC has upgraded this estimate
to at least 10 years. The methodology for the economic analysis was based on a total cost for rehabilitation
equivalent to US$ 10million. Benefits were calculated as the savings gained in maintenance with and
without the project, an increase in passenger airport taxes for use of the improved airport infrastructure and
a 30% increase in the number of passengers, and an increase in landing fees since the rehabilitation of the
runway. The resulting IERR of the rehabilitated runway was 20%. The concessionaire of the airport will
provide the civil works routine and periodic maintenance of the runway, while the electrical works remain
CORPAC's responsibility.
Bicycle component. The Borrower carried out an economic analysis ex-post based on a useful life of the
bikepaths of 20 years, a discount rate of 15%, and including operational costs for cleaning and maintenance
of the bikepaths. Benefits are primarily based on transport costs savings, assuming an annual increase in
bicycle use of 1% starting in 2001. Based on these assumptions, a Net Present Value of US$270,000 was
calculated, obtaining an internal economic rate of return of 16.9%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Financial Rate of Return was not calculated at appraisal and is considered not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project provided significant contributions for the development of the transport sector in Peru. In
particular, the project assisted in the development of a new Transport Law preparing the way for future
reforms, supported the creation of National Traffic Safety Council and its traffic safety unit, improved
budgetary resources for maintenance of the road network during the project implementation, promoted
-9-



private sector participation in the railway sub-sector, developed a Bridge Maintenance System, developed a
Master Plan for Civil Aviation, and supported strengthening institutional capacity. In regard to the latter,
the technical assistance component of the project assisted MTC and PERT in strengthening its road
network planning capabilities and road environmental and safety analysis. As a result, MTC is carrying
out road investment analysis and incorporating detailed economic analysis and environmental and road
safety evaluations to define optimum rehabilitation standards, their associated economic worthiness,
environmental conditions and safety standards for sustainable management of roads. Overall, the MTC
improved its capacity in contracting out feasibility studies, final design and supervision of works to the
private sector companies using Bank procurement methods.
The difficult economic and political situation has caused uncertainty regarding a follow-up project, which
will affect negatively the developed institutional capacity within PERT.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation took place in a generally stable social environment. Under the bridge rehabilitation
component, there was an assumed collusion of prequalified bidders resulting in rebidding, which took a
considerable amount of time. Furthermore, there was the "El Nino" phenomenon, and while this affected
the works on some of the project roads, most of the impact was foreseeable and the Bank's El Nino
Emergency Loan included a component to mitigate the negative impacts of this phenomenon.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The slow progress in the Reform of the State has been the principal reason for the implementation delays in
MTC's institutional reforms. Early in 1995, MTC made progress in designing a major reform that would
basically assign the responsibility of policy making, long-term planning and overseeing transport sector
performance to MTC, and transfer the responsibility for managing the road network to an autonomous
agency. These institutional reforms were proposed by an ad-hoc committee within MTC, assisted by
international consultants and several transport seminars. Support for the restructuring plan was weakened
after the Government Executive Branch did not pass framework legislation for the modernization of the
State before the end of 1996 (the deadline for extraordinary powers entrusted to the President). The
Government Plan for "Reform of the State" was never undertaken and furthermore, an IDB loan to support
this plan was canceled, reducing the possibilities of carrying out the institutional transport reforns needed.
However, in 1998, the president of a Congress transport infrastructure committee requested the assistance
of MTC and the Bank to prepare a Transport Law. With technical assistance and the support of
international consultants, Congress approved the new Transport Law in October 1999, which in principle
had been envisaged since 1995. The Government still has to complete work on the By-laws that will define
the concrete reforms measures.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There was a six-month extension of the closing date of the project requested by the Government to allow
the completion of the rehabilitation of the Maranon- Utcumbamba and Huallaga bridge packages.
However, as of today the civil works have not been finished and despite the financial support from El Nino
loan, works will not be completed by December 31, 2000 due to lack of local counterpart funds.
The resources from the technical assistance component were insufficiently used during the first year of
project implementation to strengthen the technical capacity of PERT to prepare terms of reference, review
and approve feasibility and design studies, and prepare adequate civil works and supervision contracts.
These factors affected the implementation of the road component.
- 10-



The complexity of the project required a large diversity in professional skills, (airport, railway, road safety,
bridges, etc.). However, this diversity was not reflected in PERT staffing which had primarily road
engineering skills. This resulted in the lack of ownership for components that were not directly related to
road engineering.
Although quarterly project reports were prepared, these reports did not include an analysis based on
performance indicators that would have allowed PERT to have a management tool and assessment of
potential problems and risks. Although not mandatorily required in bank projects at the time of writing, the
SAR included key monitoring indicators and targets that covered achievements through the Mid-Term
Project Review scheduled for 1996. It was expected that during this Review new indicators through 1999
would be developed, but this was not done.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
On June 30, 2000, the closing date, the total project cost was about US$299.85 million, 123.9% of the
SAR estimate made in March 1994. The most significant source of incremental cost was the high cost of
road rehabilitation works. On average, the actual cost of road rehabilitation was about US$335,611 per
km, compared to an original estimate of US$149,393 per km. The project, at appraisal, was to be financed
62% by the Bank, 20% by the Government and 18% by co-financiers; the final figures are 50%, 33% and
17% respectively.
The project was restructured in March 1996 and loan amounts were reallocated. The loan amount budgeted
to the road component was increased from the appraisal estimate of US$88.5 million to US$111.98 million,
while the runway rehabilitation loan amount was reduced to US$1.07 million from the planned US$21.6
million. The Govermment Counterpart funds increased from US$47.90 million to US$98.06 million to
mainly finance road construction costs overrun.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated likely because: (i) the Government has promulgated a new
Transport Law in 1999, which lays the groundwork for institutional reforms, to be concretized through the
development of the regulations, (ii) the Loan Covenant on road maintenance created a positive road
maintenance culture by clearly demonstrating to project executing agencies the viability of maintaining the
physical infrastructure rehabilitated under the project, (iii) the viability of road safety activities has been
demonstrated and will be supported further with IDB support and own resources, and (iv) the private sector
is participating in the railway and airport sub-sectors assuming the operation and maintenance of the assets
involved. On the other hand, the project implementation unit within MTCC was financed through the
project and without this support the professional capacity assembled in this unit may be lost.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Upon completion, the 589 km of rehabilitated roads were transferred to SINMAC for maintenance.
SINMAC generates resources for financing road maintenance through road tolls. However, these resources
are insufficient to maintain the overall national roads network, and without an enforceable mechanism to
ensure sufficient maintenance funds, maintenance of project road depends on government priorities. Once
completed, the repaired and constructed derelict bridges will be transferred to the Directorate of Bridges of
MTC. The O&M of Road Laboratory equipment will be fully recovered through fees charged to private
firms and budgetary transfers from MTC and Government funds. The Municipality of Lima will clean and
maintain the 48 km of dedicated bicycle paths constructed under the project with its own resources and will
continue operating the bicycle revolving fund established through Caja Municipal and related promotion
- 11 -



activities. The Lima airport concessionaire will be in charge of the maintenance and operation of the
runway rehabilitated while the Consorcio de Ferrocarriles del Peru will maintain and operate the equipment
and rail-infrastructure acquired under the project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. Eleven missions visited Lima
during the preparation, appraisal and negotiation phases, complemented by a mission of the borrower to
Washington D.C. Appraisal was conducted by a highly qualify multi-disciplinary team consisting of a
transport engineer, a transport economist, a procurement specialist, a non-motorized transport specialist
and an environmental specialist. The timeliness of the project was not optimal: designs for the road
rehabilitation component were not ready before project effectiveness resulting in procurement delays for
civil works.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank Supervision is rated satisfactory. On average, the Bank conducted two full supervision missions per
year. Sufficient resources were allocated toward project supervision, which allowed for the constant
monitoring of the project, including a budget of eight staff weeks a year of a project officer at the Resident
Mission in Lima. Supervision compromised of 222 staff weeks. Although there was a task manager
turnover, the project never encountered significant delays in obtaining "no objections" from the Bank team
because the Resident Mission acted as a backup to the Task Managers while staff was away on missions
and gave continuity to project implementation.
During Supervision, the Bank staff tended to combine supervision with other transport missions in the
Country, which proved to be very cost-effective.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory in terms of responsiveness to borrower needs. The operation
was prepared in line with the timing of regular investment projects, and, from 1995 on, the Bank was
prompt in responding to Borrower requests for " no-objections" from Washington by providing day-to-day
assistance in procurement and-institutional and policy issues from the Resident Mission of Lima. The local
project officer maintained a constructive working relationship with the Borrower, following up on tasks and
action plans agreed during supervision missions and overseeing resulting work. The Bank reacted rapidly
and favorably to the Borrower's request to restructure project components and to reallocate project funds
when needed. Supervision reports carefully highlighted key project implementation issues and corrective
measures agreed upon. Bank staff participated in several institutional reform seminars and other project
related activities.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated satisfactory, although. the quality of designs for road
rehabilitation works was insufficient, resulting in substantial cost overruns. However, the Borrower,
through -project technical team, was committed to preparing the project. The Borrower's staff spent a
significant amount of time with the Bank's team in Lima to complete the analysis and discuss project
scope, objectives, components and implementation arrangements, demonstrating a sense of ownership.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government implementation perfornance was mixed. In terms of sector and institutional reforms, the
- 12 -



Government response showed lack of commitment in implementing the institutional reforms required to (i)
reorganize and strengthen the Ministry of Transport and (ii) improve the organization and management of
the road network. The Transport Law was approved practically at the end of project execution and the
MTCC still has to prepare the regulations required by this Law. With the political situation and economic
restrictions, it is projected that the implementation of the regulations will take longer than expected. In
terms of counterpart funding including road component cost overruns, bridge rehabilitation, traffic safety,
runway rehabilitation and project management, the government performed satisfactorily, increasing its local
counterpart share from US$47.9 million to US$98.06 during project implementation. Furthermore, the
Government showed its strong commitment to private sector participation in the concession of ENAFER as
had been agreed at appraisal.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated satisfactory. The project-executing unit (PERT)
provided smooth administration of the resources to the other project participants such as the Municipality
of Lima and ENAFER. PERT played a critical role in facilitating coordination among the different
implementing agencies and departments of MTC and public institutions. Although there was a high
turnover of the project coordinator position, project management went smoothly and provided technical
assistance to the other agencies, which lacked experience, throughout the project implementation period.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is satisfactory. Throughout the implementation period, the Borrower
maintained a strong commitment to attaining the project objectives due to good project management and
strong commitment by the implementing agencies and other participants to achieve the project targets.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from Peru Transport Rehabilitation Project are:
Project Design and Policy implications:
(a)    Calibrate project complexity with existing institutional and professional capacity. The scope of
the project was correctly identified and appraised but it was overly ambitious, addressing various modes
with components ranging from railways and airports sub-sectors to a transport sub-sector, and involving
several executing agencies with initial lack of experience in managing this type of project. The lack of
adequate professional capacity resulted in a slow implementation start of the project.
(b)    Carry out the feasibility and engineering studies before project approval to ensure readiness for
implementation where feasible. The underestimation of construction costs during road design, and the
resulting cost over-run during construction, to the extent possible, could have been avoided if detailed
technical designs had been completed well in advance of construction. Experience has shown that unless
detailed and updated road design studies are available before bids are requested, the financial bids received
from contractors are often much higher than the previously estimated construction costs. Also, in those
cases where construction bids were based on uncompleted or outdated design studies, technical
specifications needed to be modified during construction, which then resulted in higher-than estimated
construction costs.
(c)    Ensure quality of designs by reviewing their consideration of terrain and climatical conditions.
The extreme difficult terrain and climatical conditions in the Andean Mountains result in the occurance of
multiple 'zonas criticas' which were not adequately addressed because of design/budget deficiencies and a
- 13 -



'tramo' rehabilitation approach. Future projects must opt for an approach that focuses on full rehabilitation
of 'normal' sections and 'reduced' rehabilitation in zonas criticas, only assuring transitability of such zones.
(d)    Include enforceable sustainability mechanisms in the project design. The Loan Agreement
(Article 4.04) required an annual budget allocation of US$50 million for the purpose of financing the
maintenance of national roads, other than the roads to be rehabilitated under the project. Over the life of
the project, the Borrower has complied with this (enforceable) requirement, which contributed significantly
to the preservation of the national road network. However, taking into account (i) the actual economic
crisis, (ii) the insufficiency of financial resources for road maintenance generated through road tolls, (iii)
the absence in the new Transport Law of a sustainable road maintenance financing mechanism, and (iv) the
postponenment of the Second Transport Rehabilitation Project which again included an (improved) road
maintenance requirement, there is a high risk of deferring periodic road maintenance resulting in a rapid
deterioration of the national road network.
Project Implementation
(e)    Follow through with the use ofproject monitoring indicators and select key measurable
institutional indicators, and assign a monitoring and evaluation responsibility to the project-executing
unit. Although the project included a set of monitoring indicators and targets, the implementation unit
(PERT) did not use them for project management or as a monitoring tool as an "early warning device",
thus hindering effective implementation of project staff monitoring, and progress in fulfilling the
development objectives or the performance of the other project executing agencies, such as ENAFER,
CORPAC, NRSC, and the Municipality of Lima. In addition, the project did not include appropriate
indicators for the institutional reforms. The monitoring and evaluation of effectiveness of the institutional
reforms could have been improved with the inclusion of clearly defined and measurable indicators. Without
these indicators, it is difficult for Bank supervision teams to identify delays and issues early enough to
propose timely remedial measures. Clear responsibility for planning and monitoring project performance
and targets must be included in the project-executing unit.
GO     Develop andfollow through with a specific technical training program for local staff during the
first year ofproject implementation for sectors with a long period of inactivity. Staff of project executing
agencies must be qualified and trained to prepare terms of reference and to review and analyze technical
feasibility studies prepared by extemal consulting firms during the first year of operation or, alternatively,
to hire experienced international consultants to assist in the approval of the technical studies. Also,
executing agencies must incorporate quality control mechanisms to ensure proper evaluation of technical
reports or feasibilities studies.
(g)    Promote the use of a procurement method ofpost-qualification of bids instead of
pre-qualification where there are a limited number of local contractors. It was observed during the
execution of the bridge component that where there were a limited number of contractors, which had been
prequalified for a well-defined scope of work, and all participants' competitors knew the list of prequalified
companies, the financial bids received were significantly higher than expected. Project management
suspected exchange of information between pre-qualified contractors and decided for a subsequent
relaunching of bids introducing the method of post-qualification of bidders. This yielded prices that were
almost half of those quoted in the first set of bids. The appearance of new bidders, unknown to the
long-established local bidders, was certainly the main factor that brought about the lower bids.
(h)    The existence of bikepaths is a necessary but not sufficient condition for the use of bicycles in a
city such as Lima-Callao. Bikepaths protect bicyclists from traffic, but they do not provide security
- 14 -



against theft or -in the case of women- sexual harassment. Whenever the use of bikepaths needs to be
combined with cycling along other main avenues where bikepaths are not present, and bikers share road
space with motorized traffic, this represents a serious deterrent of bicycle usage for both men and women.
The impact of bikepath construction on neighbors and residents needs to be taken into consideration in their
design. Furthermore, a participatory approach is necessary to this intervention, in order to generate
goodwill toward the project and contribute to the creation -or strengthening- of a bicycle culture. Finally,
the promotional and educational efforts are a critical component for the success of a non-motorized
transport project. The communications campaigns needs to address the specific issues that concern men
and women with respect to bicycle riding and handling, and to the use of bicycles and bikepaths.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Final Evaluation report prepared by the Borrower is included as Annex 8. Hereafter follows an
informal summary of the Borrower's report, prepared by the TTL.
Evaluation of objectives and goals of the Project
In the evaluation of the Project, it is very important to stress the high degree of complexity involved while
acting simultaneously adjusting to the Standards set by the World Bank and the reduced time frames
urgently demanded by the country for its recovery, considering additionally that the Project had been
drafted with a multi-modal conception, which included in addition to the highways and bridges projects, the
studies and works of non-motorized, railways, civil aeronautics, urban metropolitan transportation and
road safety.
Some external demands had to be overcome by the Project with the purpose of achieving the proposed
objectives and goals, among which we could mention as the more relevant ones, those derived from the
ampleness and particular characteristics of the regions where the works where done, as well as the different
climatic phenomena according to the season, the different types of geology and existing geographic
accidents, as well as the variety of hydrology of the Peruvian territory.
However, in spite of the inconveniences faced, the adequate management of those responsible for the
administrative and operational aspects of the executing organisms allowed to reach satisfactorily the goals
established in the Project, which are shown in the Appendix and which are contributing substantially to the
development of the country, turning the PRT-1 into a facilitator and integrator of development with
alternate modes and ways which are more secure and faster, fostering growth of the different
socioeconomic activities of each region, promoting the generation of work, the access to health and
education services and helping in the reduction of the transportation costs which will drive commercial and
tourism exchange.
Evaluation of results
PRT-1 contributed in a decisive way to the reactivation of the transportation and construction sectors,
making4 possible the utilization of the machinery and personnel of the national engineering, providing
direct work to approximately 66,000 men/month, which equals a total of more than 5,500 man/year, an
amount that is distributed in approximately 380 professionals, 620 technicians and 4564 assistants and
workers each year.
The benefits of the Project were highly profitable, initially with the dynamization of the economic activity
- 15 -



in the areas of influence through the generation of employment and globally through the direct benefits in
the operational costs of the vehicles with a significant profitability, especially in the roads that have been
improved at the asphalt carpet level; and in respect to the indirect benefits (well being of population,
improvement of competitiveness of the Peruvian export products and more economic stability within the
country), which although are difficult to quantify, a substantial growth that has benefited the population as
a whole has been observed.
Performance of the Borrower
Performance by the Borrower (Government, MTC, MEF, Executive Organisms) was rated satisfactory,
reaching by the end of the Project the objectives and goals and execute almost in its entirety the available
funds. The interest and responsibility showed in the technical and administrative aspects, and the permanent
coordination with the Bank, allowed to identify and solve timely the problems that in several instances
demanded adjustment or modification of the goals in order to ensure the success of the Project.
Regarding the execution stage, compliance with the programs of activities developed for each component,
as well as the follow-up of the key indicators of implementation and the operational indicators of
performance, expedited the achievement of virtually all goals established or adjusted. During this stage, the
goals of the components and the assigned amounts were reviewed, and in accordance with the World Bank
some goals were adjusted and others were moved to a next project, basically due to larger investment costs
than those initially considered, as a result of the Definitive Studies, Contests and Bidding performed.
The work teams conformed by the Executive Organisms to carry on the technical and administrative
functions had a satisfactory performance, improving the quality of the results as the Project advanced. It
should be stressed that at the beginning of the PRT-1, as a result of an omission by previous governments
of development of transportation infrastructure, there was an evident lack of qualified human resources
with experience to satisfy the integral requirements for the adequate direction and execution of the different
studies, supervision and works that had to be performed.
This first Loan Agreement between the World Bank and the Government - Sector MTC (PERT-PRT),
meant the implementation and mandatory compliance of the procedures established in the Bank Standards,
which in those moments were not known nor applied in the systems of the transportation sectors, because of
which the Executive Organisms had to adapt, innovate and apply in all the activities and
technical-administrative processes, the above mentioned standards in order to fully achieve the goals and
objectives established.
Performance by the Bank
The ongoing participation of the Bank during the preparation, evaluation and supervision stages was very
important for the achievement of the objectives and goals, providing continuous administrative and
operational advice at all levels, which helped to overcome setbacks and difficulties that rose throughout the
development of the Project. In the same way, through the visits of the missions and communications from
Washin on, the officers of the Bank showed interest, experience and knowledge, coordinating and
establishing dialogue with the different Government Organisms and in specific cases taking part in work
meetings with the consultants, proposing actions and/or alternatives with the purpose of solving existing
problems.
From the preparation works, the Bank showed a wide identification with the objectives of the Project,
which helped with the Integral Strategy of the Government to reactivate the transportation sector, which in
- 16 -



those moments was going through a collapse situation due to the lack of road infrastructure en good
condition and at the same time setting up solid foundations for promoting the development of the country.
During the evaluation stage, through a multidisciplinary professional team, the Bank undertook a task of
analysis and revision of the work perforned during the first stage, identifying the possible risks that would
involve the execution of PRT- I and providing concrete solutions, obtaining as a final product the
Evaluation Report No. 12309-PE from February 17 1994, in which the transportation sector and the
economic situation of the country, the objectives and characteristics of the Project, the agreements reached
and recommendations for the optimum execution of the same are analyzed in depth.
During the supervision stage, the Bank assisted the Borrower through visits to the country by the missions,
work teams and communications from Washington, evaluating the performance of the advances and
progress, cooperating to troubleshoot and solve problems, formulating recommendations and approving
requirements, demonstrating promptness and flexibility towards proposals presented by the Executive
Organisms in the best interest of overcoming difficulties and optimize execution of the Project. In specific
cases, they promptly approved the partial or total modification of goals and the consequent restructuring of
costs of the Project. Furthermore, the responses from the Bank to the requests for No Objection in terms of
time, mainly for issues regarding approval of additional budget for works and supervision, allowed the
normal development of the works.
Key lessons learned for future projects
In the formulation of the Feasibility Studies, Basic Engineering Studies and Definitive Studies, a good
quality control is critical giving special attention to the topographic, geologic, hydrologic, climatic and
environmental studies, with emphasis in the field investigation phase, soil and subsoil testing (with backside
excavations of 2 m depth as a minimum, in distances of no more than 200 meters); also, the solution of
critical points should be considered, the stabilization of banks (upper and lower), appropriate emergency
lanes, the design of efficient drainage, the mitigation of negative environmental impact and the optimization
of the road safety. The approval of the Definitive Studies must be very demanding, as that is a way of
ensuring the successful completion of the works; if not done so, during the execution there could be defects,
deficiencies or omissions, which could give rise to additional delays and budgets with very high percentages
in relation to the budget established in the contract, putting the objectives of the Project in risk.
The Definitive Studies in the case of highways, require additionally a specialized review in the aspects of
road safety, with the purpose of decreasing the problems related to the designs, which will help to minimize
significantly the possible future expenses for modifications or corrections after construction. It is important
to consider in the terms of reference for the Studies, the basic concepts of road safety and during the
construction phase the application of audits.
For future contests or bidding processes, with the purpose of optimizing results and avoid jeopardizing the
completion of the studies or works during the selection, we should:
a.    Implement considerations that will impede awarding the contract to Bidders (Consultants or
Contractors) with a limited contracting economic capacity; requiring during the selection stage the
sufficient liquidity that will ensure progress without depending entirely from contractual payments.
b.     Disqualify bidders who present offers below a reasonable margin with regard to the referential
budget (offers below 90%).
c.    In the event that intemational companies bid, the mandatory direct participation should be required,
through the assignment and permanent residence of its specialized technical staff (foreign) until the project
- 17 -



has been concluded.
d.     Program in the future the contests and bidding processes through the post-qualification modality,
as the more flexibility of the submittal stage allows for a greater number of bidders, reducing thus the
possibilities of arrangements in prices.
e.     Distinguish in the terms of reference for the projects of highways the concepts and scope of the
Basic Engineering Studies and the Engineering Projects, being convenient to separate them during the
execution and presentation phases.
This first experience has made possible the identification of procedures for future projects and the
establishment of the need to implement and operational handbook that will standardize the different
processes that are required during the execution of a project type PRT- l, defining the steps and time frames
that must be met for each of the activities, which should be adjusted to the real needs and future
requirements.
It is critical to promote and sustain the maintenance plans of the recently rehabilitated highways that will
ensure continuity of the ways and avoid its progressive deterioration, for which it is necessary to have and
strengthen: i) assigmnent of the necessary funds through toll collection (auto-sustainable) and the
obligatory nature of the fiscal contribution in case it is necessary to cover differences; ii) the
implementation of weighting controls of heavy vehicles that could endanger the conservation of highways;
iii) establish a monitoring plan with the purpose of supervising the state of conservation of the rehabilitated
highways and the routine and periodic maintenance programs. In the same way, it is necessary to foster
creation of local companies that perform the minor maintenance tasks of highways and bridges in the
remote zones, where the presence of work equipment from MTC will be too limited, difficult or cost
ineffective.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft ICR report has been sent to the Cofinanciers, but no comments were received.
(c) Other partners (:NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
1. ROAD COMPONENT
> Road Rehabilitation                              725 Km                              589,40 Km
Tarma - La Merced                                 72 Km                       71,60 Km d- Pte. Yanango
La Merced - Satipo                              122 Km                              122,60 Km
Huanuco - Tingo Maria                           120 Km                              120,60 Kmn
Tarapoto - Rioja                                135 Km                               Canceled
Rioja - Rio Nieva                               100 Km                              100,00 Km
Rio Nieva - Corral Quemado                      176 Km                              174,60 Km
A.   Bridge Rehabilitation                      44 bridges +repairs            52 Bridges + 540 i.m. B. recovered
Acquisition of Stock                    Stock acquired for 500 I.m.           540 i.m. bridges recovered
Recovery of Bailey                              500 Il.                         15 new Mabe Johnson
Replacement of Derelict                        44 bridges                       37 bridges permanent
Bridge Management Study                         1 Study                     Management system acquired
.  Road Maintenance
Design of Pilot Program                         1 Study                               1 Stuidy
Works & Supervision                             620 Km                                Canceled
.  Equipment for Road Laboratory           Laboratory improvements           Quality Control Office (Laboratory)
improved
=      Traffic Safety Program
Traffic Safety Study                    Traffic Safety Road Study                Study implemented
Equipment and Works                       Safety Improvements            Pilot Project Implemented & feasibility
studies for future investments
. Design of Future Road
Rehabilitation Schemes
Tingo Maria - Pucallpa                           255 Km                               255 Km
Pte.Chanchamayo - Villa Rica                      44 Km                                44 Km
Others Roads                                     175 Km                            Tarapoto - Rioja
Olmos - Corral Quemado & others.
Road & Traffic Surveys                           Studies                 Studies completed & preparation of 2
Loan
2. RAILWAY PRIVATIZATION AND                    Restructuring ENAFER and               ENAFER Concessioned
REHABILITATION                                    privatization
3. RUNWAY REHABILITATION AT LIMA    Rehabilitation of runway & parallel            Runway rehabilitated & Taxiway
AIRPORT                                             taxiway                               repaired
4. PILOT PROJECT FOR NON-                    45 Km of dedicated bicycle paths     48 Km constructed & maintained
MOTORIZED TRANSPORT IN LIMA             35 Km of reconstruction of existing              canceled
services roads
6 000 Credits for purchase bicycles  4 580 Credits granted for purchase
bicycles & implementation of promotion
camoaing
5. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND                    Institutional Reform & Road       Institutional Strenghthening to MTC,
TRAINING                                          Management                       PERT, ENAFER, PMTNM
6. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                             Project Management
- 19-



1. ROAD COMPONENT
Road Rehabilitation
Tarma - La Merced                                           Km                          72                  71,60
La Merced - Satpo                                           Km                         122                 122,60
Huanuco - Tingo Maria                                       Km                         120                 120,60
Tarapoto - Rioja                                            Km                         135               Canceled
Rioja - Rio Nieva                                           Km                         100                 100,00
Rio Nieva - Corral Quemado                                  Km                         176                 174,60
Bridge Rehabilitation
Bailey bridges delivered                                   I.m.                        900                  1 118
Bailey bridges recovered                                   i.m.                        500                    919
Bailey bridges installed                                   i.m.                        600                    538
Replacement of derelict bridges                            l.m.                        300                    939
New o rehabilitated bridges opened to traffic              Unit                         52                     33
Road Maintenance
GOP Road Maintenance budget                             US$Million                      50                  55.56
Average Traffic                                       Vehides per day
Tarma - San Ram6n                                         (IMD)                       1 220    n.a.       1 826
San Ram6n - La Merced                                                                 1 750    4 249      4 295
La Merced -Pte.Chancahamayo                                                            530    1 552       1 970
Pte.Chancahamayo - Satipo                                                              330    967         1 038
Tarapoto - Moyobamba                                                                   620    n.a.        n.a.
Moyobamba- Rioja                                                                       560    n.a.        n.a.
Rioja - Rio Nieva                                                                      390    561         760
Rio Nieva - Corral Quemado                                                             340    390         689
Huanuco - Tingo Maria                                                                  600    803_   _956 _
Average Road Roughness                                      IRI                                             Actual
Tarma - San Ramon                                                                         3                   1.51
San Ram6n - La Merced                                                                     3                  1.51
La Merced -Pte.Chancahamayo                                                              3                   2.32
Pte.Chancahamayo - Satipo                                                                3                   2,32
Tarapoto - Moyobamba                                                                      3                   n.a.
Moyobamba- Rioja                                                                         3                    n,a.
Rioja - Rio Nieva                                                                        3
Rio Nieva - Corral Que,nado                                                              3                   1.74
Huanuco - Tingo Maria                                                                    3
Road Laboratory                                                                      1 997                  1 999
Essay                                                     number                       721                  36570
Traffic Safety and Design of Future Road Schemes                                           l
Traffic Safety Council established                        Council                         0                     1
Traffic Safety Unit functioning                            Unit                           0                     1
Traffic Safety Study                                       Study                          1                     l
Pilot Program                                              Study                         4l                     4
Traffic and Economic Studies for second Project BIRF       Study                         81                     8
2. RAILWAY PRIVATIZATION AND REHABILITATION                                                                    1 999
Railway renewed                                             Km                         600                  382.7
Locomotive repaired                                        unit                         36                   25,5
Wagons repaired                                             unit                       391                    370
Telecomunications System                                  System                          1               canceled
Central Railway (FCC)                                                                                       1 999
Locomotive availability                                     %                           66                  60,35
Wagon turnaround                                           days                         6,8                  7,13
Tons handled per year                                    Thousand                      814                    377
Ton-Km per year                                           Million                       163                    82
- 20 -



Passenger per year                                      Thousand                       544                    7,7
Passenger-km per year                                     Million                       35                   1,21
Number of employees 12/31                                Number                        615                   482
Employees per km of track                                 Ratio                        1,3                   1,39
Traffic units per employee                              Thousand                       322                    171
Southern Railway (FCS)                                                                                     1 999
Locomotive availability                                     %                           65                  57,65
Wagon turnaround                                           days                       15,0                  16,35
Tons handled per year                                   Thousand                       545                    122
Ton-Km per year                                           Million                      232                     64
Passenger per year                                      Thousand                       562                    37
Passenger-km per year                                     Million                      126                     11
Number of employees 12/31                                Number                        950                   982
Employees per km of track                                  Ratio                       1,0                   1,07
Traffic urits per employee                              Thousand                       377                     64
South - Eastern Railway (FCSO)                                                                             1 999
Locomotive availability                                     %                           66                  61,83
Wagon turnaround                                           Days                        6,0                      7
Tons handled per year                                    Thousand                       36                   3,34
Ton-Km per year                                           Million                        5                    0,5
Passenger per year                                      Thousand                       574                    146
Passenger-km per year                                     Million                       60                     15
Number of employees 12/31                                Number                        292                   356
Employees per km of track                                  Ratio                       1,7                   2,07
Traffic units per employee                              Thousand                       223                     42
3. RUNWAY REHABILITATION AT LIMA AIRPORT
Annual Traffic at Lima Airport                                                       1 993                 1 999
Total international passengers                            Million                       1,0                  2,02
Toiai domestic passengers                                 Million                       1,9                  2,30
Total freight                                         Thousand tons                   43,0                  93,45
1*tal commercial aircraft movements                     Thousand                      11,9                    103
Total private aircraft movements                        Thousand                       0,6                   4,02
National airlines serving airport                         airlines                      10      5 + smaller airlines
Foreign airlines serving airport                          airlines                      23                     25
Asphalt concrete overlay of thickness                      mm                          220                     75
Wide runway                                                mts                          45                     45
4. PILOT PROJECT FOR NON-MOTORIZED
TRANSPORT IN LIMA
Bicycle Use                                           Bicycle/weekday                                      1 999
Avenida Colonial (22 Km)                                                               n.a.                 2 160
Avenida Universitaria (20 Km)                                                          n.a.                 1 812
Avenida Tipac Amaru (35 Km)                                                            n.a.              Canceled
Avenida Tomas Valle (3 Kmn)                                                            n.a.                   588
Bicycles parked at places of employment                  Number                        n.a.                   n.a.
Data on bicycle accidents                                                              n.a.                  n.a.
Use of Credit Scheme for Low - Cost Bicycles                                                               2 000
Bicycles purchased under credit scheme                   Number                      6,000                  4 580
Amount lent to employees of formal sector                  US$                         n.a.               379 000
Amount lent to informal sector                             US$                         n.a.                20 000
Interest and repayments received                           US$                         n.a.              354 000
Administrative costs                                       US$                         n.a.                46 000
Credits granted                                          Number                      6 000                  4 276
-21 -



Institutional Arrangements of the Project
i--I  vilay                             ENAFER___                               Private Concessionaire
Runway Rehabilitation                  PERT- CORPAC                            Private Concessionaire
~11 ot Project for Norn-Motorized Transport  Municipality of Lima - Caa Municipal  Muniicipality of Limia - Caja Municipal
Coad Workos Costs Tables
T  Wracfic     - Satyio     12        na.      Paving        Rehabilitation    n.Sa.    1313           97 959
t'o'a - Rio Nieva           100       na.      Paving        Rehabilitation    na.       17,82         178 200
Ruo Nweva - Corral Quemado  176       na.      Paving        Rehabilitation _n.a. P     43 69          248 
RUNWAY & TAXIWAY OF   3,51           45        Asphalt       Rehabilitation    Overlay    30,19        8 608 497
LIMA AIRPOR                                   1220 mm        _____      I_               I____           ____
Po!apotks RCosta                                      Caneee
ROA  REHABILITATON
1 arma, -- La Mleced          712 6   6n.a.     6    Paving    Rehabilitation     Overay.  995         118 237350143
l:3 MIercea - Satipo         1226   6n.a.          Paving      Rehabilitation     Ovrlya.9 18,0          4147  0       33951
iu,arnuCO - -i-ingo Maria   120,0  n.a.           Paving      Rehabilitation     Overla 7,0 99           9l 22278   6
1arapoto -Rioja                                      CaSna. Pv nc  ehaiiatoe.ad3139   5
Rci110 - Rjo Nieva            100,00  6,00 y 6n60      Paving    Rehabilitation    Overlay> 99 mm          44,57       445 716
Pi Nieva - Corral Quemado    174,60  6,00 y 6,60       Paving    Rehabilitation    Overlay> 99mm           65,69       376 205
; UNWAY & TAXIWAY OF          6,          45          Asphalt.   Rehabilitation    Overlay> 99 mm          11,65     3 328 571
LM     IRPR                         220 mm _
R OAD REHABILITATION    589          725           Rehabiliaton        1      108,1           33 614939
3PROGRAM
u_~~~~~____ ___ __
Costt includes design, supervision, works and contingencies.
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
1. ROAD COMPONET
A. Road Rehabilitation                                           108,31           197,81             183
B. Bridge Rehabilitation                                          27,79            20,14              72
C. Road Maintenance                                               10,78             0,29               3
D. Equipment for Road Laboratory                                   0,37             0,68             184
E. Traffic Safety Program                                          1,22             2,09             174
F. Design of Future Road Rehabilitation Schemes                    4,84             6,93             143
2. RAILWAY PRIVATIZATION AND REHABILITATION                         42,25            41,08              97
3. RUNWAY REHABILITATION AT LIMA AIRPORT                            30,19            11,65               39
4. PILOT PROJECT FOR NON-MOTORIZED TRANSPORT IN LIMA                 4 05             3,52               87
5. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING                                 7,06             5,07               72
6. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                5,13            10,59              206
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                               242,001          299,85 l                |
TOTAL PRO0ECT COSTS                                               242,001          299,85 1                l
I___________ I____         ICB           NCB           Other           NBF            Total
1,Works                   92,80          23,20          2,00          40,10          158.10
l____________________ l (71,30)         (18,30)        (1,60)         (0,00)         (91,20)
2. Goods                  35,40          7,50           3,10                          46,00
l____________________ l (26,50)         (5,60)         (2,50)                        (34,60)
3. Services                                             29,70          3,10           32,80
l   (24,10)        (0,00)         (24,10)
4. Project                                              0,10           5,00           5,10
Management                                             (0,10)         (0,00)         (0,10)
TOTAL                     128,20         30,70          34,90         48,20          242,00
l___________________ l (97,80)          (23,90)        (28,30)         0 (0,00)    l   (150,00)
ICB           NCB            Other          NBF            Total
t.Works                         116,00         4,33                         71,74          193.05
(76,29)       (3,81)                        (0.00)         (80,05)
2. Goods                        31,33          5,25          3,67                          40,25
(23_45)       (4,09)         (3,43)                        (30,97)
3. Services                                                  54,13          1,82           55,95
l (37,57)      (0,00)         (37,57)
4. Project Management                                        0,21           10,39          10,60
_______l___ l_ (0,21)        (0.00)         (0,21)
TOTAL                           147,33         9,58           58,01         83,95          299,85
(99,74)       (7,90)        (41,21)        (0,00)         (148,85)
- 23 -



1. Road                    88, 52    26,80    38,001119        03      55       2         6,       120,0
Road Rehabilitation  - 22                 38,00    914      0,2_4,5           70 1360,0_
Bridge Rehabilitation    22,19    5,60             12,35   6,460,0_   1,                          _   _
Road Maintenance         8,69    2,10    ___0,25           0,04              2,9    i1,9___             _
Equip. Laboratory        0,31    0,06              0,50     0,18             161,3   300 0           _
Traffic Safety Program   1,01    0,21              1,55     0,54             153,5  _295 _9_
Design Future Road       4,11    0,73              4 78     2,15             116,3   294,5
2. Railway Privatization   31,71    10,54   _                -30,37    10,71     __   95,8   -101,   __6
3. Runway Rehabilitation   21,60    3,59  _   00     1,07     5,18     5,40    5,0      144,3   _ 108
4. Pilot Project For Non-  3,05     1,00             3,10     0,42              101,6   41,6
Motorized Transport
5. Technical Assistance    5,01     0,95 _     1     3,36     0,99      72     67,1   1104,2       65 5
6. Project Management      0,11     5,02          _                     08     109,1    207,0        __
TOTAL              150,00   47,90    44,10    148,85  98,06    51,79    99,2    204,7      117,4
- 24 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
l 1|1 I I | s___. . ..........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ <  ~...  .... J? 
1.ROAD  COM .PONENTT
A. Road Rehabilitation                                            196,62    38.1%      356,24
Tarma - La Merced                   7,10    38,70%                 20,97    50,10%       84,76
La Merced - Satipo                  1480     3350%                 4105    3060%        15760
Huanuco - Tingo Maria               5        28,90%                21,95    26,60%       34,61
Tarapoto - Rioja                    10,90    30,80%                         Canceled
Rioja - Corral Quemado              49,80    21,60%               111,15   21,10%        70,07
Rioja_- Rio Nieva                       _44,27    17,90%                              20,20
Rio Nieva - Corral Quernado                                     66,88    24,10%      49 87
B. Bridge Rehabilitation                    lG4,00%
Huallaga valley bridges
Canuto                                                                    198,40%       24,85
Pulcachi 2                                                                  210,90%      23,32
Filab                              _         _.                             257,50%      23,46
Volcancillo                                                         .       234,80%      23,39
Shitari                                                                     253,20%      26,57
Utcubamba valley bridges.
Cocahayco                          _                                        16,00%        0,83
El Progreso                                                                 150,90%      14,70
|C. Road Maintenance __   
Pilot Maintenance Plan                 _     91,00%/     1,04               Canceled    __
2. RAILWAY PRIVATIZATION
AND REHABILITATION_ _
3FCC                                 9,54      n.a.
2 FCS  _      ,                     2l 24    31,00%
FCSO                                4,2      19,00% 
Enafer                              35,00    21,0 %                30.37    17.33%       23.05
3. RUNWAY REHABILITATION
AT LIMA AIRPORT                            | _                            l_l
Tourist Traffic                              25 00%   -  13,00   _         _ _        _
Airport Services                  _          18,00%       6 00    _        _
4. PILOT PROJECT FOR NON-                                                   16,89%        0,75
MOTORIZED TRANSPORT IN
LIMA
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                      Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/91                        2   TS, TG
09/92                        2   HE, TS
12/92                        5   TS, TE, 2 HE, ES
AppraisaVNegotiation
01/93                        1   TS
03/93                        8   TS, RE, TE, 2 HE, ES, TG, FA,
06/93                        8   TS, ES, RE, HE, FA, NM, TE,
AS
09/93                        1   TS
11/93                        1   HE
11/93                        3   TS, RE, AS
01/94                        1   TS
03/94                        1   HE
Supervision
04/94                         1  RE
06/94                         6  TS, HE, RE, NM, FA, ES               S                 S
08/94                         3  TS, RE, TG                           S                HS
09/94                         4  TS, RE, NM, HE                       S                HS
03/95                         1  RE                                   S                HS
08/95                         3  HE, RE, ID                           S                 S
02/96                         6  HE, TE, ES, NM, AS, ID               S                 S
04/96                         1  RE                                   U                U
10/96                         5  HE, NM, NG, ID, TE                   S                 S
07/97                         7  2 TE, HE, NM, AS, ID, NG             S                 S
06/98                         6  TS, NM, TG, ID, 2 RM                 S                 S
12/98                         5  TS, NM, 2 RM, PA                     S                S
05/99                         3  TS, NM, RM                           S                 S
12/99                         1  TS                                   S                S
06/00                         1  TS                                   S                 S
ICR
11/00                        2   TE, TS                               S                S
Specialty Key:
AS - Airport Specialist      ID - Institutional Development Specialist  RE - Railway Engineer
ES - Enviromnental Specialist   NG- NGO Coordinator                  RM - Resident Mission Staff
FA - Financial Analyst       NM - Non-motorized Transport Specialist  TE - Transport Economist
HE - Highway Engineer        PA - Project Assistant                  TG - Transport Engineer
TS - Transport Specialist
-26 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation             363.6                       616.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                   208.2                      403.4
Supervision                            205.0                       488.9
ICR                                       6.0                       37.5
Total                                  782.8                      1,546.3
1. During preparation and appraisal of the project a considerable amount of TF resources was used,
amounting to 391.3 staffweeks at a cost of US$566,600.00
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  C N  * NA
X Sector Policies                         OH   OSUOM  C N  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  *SUOM  C N  O NA
E Financial                               O H  OSUOM  C N  * NA
E Institutional Development               0 H  O SU 0 M  C N  0 NA
El Environmental                          0 H  O SU O M  C N  * NA
Social
X Poverty Reduction                0 H       SU OM  C N  0 NA
Z Gender                           O H OSUOM * N O NA
D Other (Please speci)             O H  OSUOM  C N  O NA
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  C N  O NA
Z Public sector management                0 H  O SUO M       N  O NA
L7Other (Pleasespecify)                       H  OSUOM  C N  0 NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
0  Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
i Supervision                                         OHS OS   OU  OHU
E Overall                                             OHS OS  OU  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
LI Preparation                                        O HS * S  O  U  OHU
OI Government implementation performance              0 HS O S  0  U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                  O HS * S   O  U  O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Decreto Supremo N 010-96-MTC. Creaci6n del Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Vial. 22/08/1996
Reportes de la Estructura de Costo y Financiamiento del Proyecto. Muestra la ejecuci6n por componente al
31/05/2000
Reporte del Proyecto por Fuente de Financiamiento Reprogramado al 21/02/96
Informaci6n proporcionada por Ing. Giselle Montoya sobre el estado de la red vial en los anos 1990, 1995
y 1999
Reporte del Sistema de Finanzas de Gasto por Categoria al 02/08/2000, proporcionado por el area de
Contabilidad
Estimaci6n de niimero de vehiculos por ciclovia, proporcionada por el Ing. Luis Hernandez
Localizaci6n de los elementos Bailey para el Huallaga, entregado por el Ing. Marco Garnica
Longitud de Conjunto puentes Marafi6n-Utcubamba, entregado por el Ing. Marco Gamica.
Ejemplo de Cuadro de control situacional de adicionales y ampliaciones de plazo de obra, para la Carretera
La Merced-Satipo, Tramo 1: La Merced -Shankivironi, y Tarma la Merced proporcionado por el Ing.
Marco Garnica.
Relaci6n de destino y longitud de los Puentes Modulares Bailey y los Mabey Compact 200, proporcionado
por el Altnacen de Cantagallo.
Descripci6n de las rutas contempladas en el Plan Piloto de Mantenimiento Vial establecido en por la firma
CAEM Ltda.. Consultores. DeLEUW CATRE.
Valores del indice de Rugosidad (IRI):
Documento                                                Carretera
Carta de CESEL Ingenieros del 14/09/1998                 Tarma - La Merced
Fax de Camargo Correa del 09/08/2000                     Corral Quemado - Rio Nieva
Documento de Evaluaci6n de Rugosidad                     La Merced -Shankivironi,
Documento de Evaluaci6n de Rugosidad                     Shankivironi,-Satipo
Carta de firmas SOTECNI, SPEA y BWAS encargadas de la recuperaci6n del conjunto de puentes
Huallaga, solicitando pago por servicios prestados
Control de Desembolsos del Proyecto del Prdstamo del BIRF.
- 30 -



Desembolso realizados por el Banco Mundial en el componente Ferrocarriles
Decreto Supremo N0 134-98-EF de autorizaci6n al MEF de asumir obligaciones que mantiene ENAFER
S.A. con COFIDE, el IPSS y las derivadas del convenio aprobado por la R.M. N 225-94-EF/75 del
31/12/1998
Convenio de asunci6n de obligaciones entre MEF y ENAFER S.A. por D.S. N 134-98-EF, del
11/03/1999.
Indicadores de Seguimiento de ENAFER S.A. remitida con oficio N 473 -99/GG.OM.20.P del 15/04/1999
del Gerente General Ing. Rail Rosales Trelles
Decreto Supremo N 033-99-MTC aprobando la transferencia de bienes y derechos de propiedad de
ENAFER S.A. a favor del Ministerio, del 17/09/1999.
Metas de Enero 1999 a Diciembre 1999 de la Oficina de Control de Calidad, Direcci6n General de
Caminos del MTCVC
Evaluaci6n proyecto rehabilitaci6n pista del aeropuerto internacional Jorge Chavez. Por el Sr. Rolando
Flores Fiol
Estudio de Factibilidad Econ6mica. Segunda Pista de aterrizaje paralela para el aeropuerto intemacional
Jorge Chavez. Por Birk Hillman Consultants Inc. del 01/1997.
Informes Trimestrales. Enero-Marzo 2000 del Prestamo Banco Mundial N 3717-PE
Ayudas memorias de visita de funcionarios del Banco
Estados Financieros, Balance y Estados de Perdidas y Ganancias de ENAFER S.A., preparados a partir de
documentos revisados.
Informe Final de Cierre Componente de ENAFER, preparado por ENAFER, 11 de Enero del 2000-11-17
Proceso de Privatizaci6n de ENAFER, preparado por ENAFER
Estudio de Evaluaci6n del Proyecto Piloto de Transporte No Motorizado en Lima Metropolitana.
Staff Appraisal Report Transport Rehabilitation Project, February, 1994.
Evaluaci6n Econ6mica Ex- Post de las Carreteras PRT- 1.
Evaluaci6n Econ6mica Ex-Post de la Rehabilitaci6n de la Pista de Aterrizaje del Aeropuerto.
Staff Appraisal Report Transport Rehabilitation Project II, 2000.
Informe Final de Cierre preparado por CNSV.
Memoria Institucional 1997 - 2000 - Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Vial, Documento de trabajo.
- 31 -



Estudio de Evaluacion del Proyecto de Transporte No Motorizado.
- 32 -



ANNEX 8
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION, COMUNICATION,
HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION
REPORT OF COMPLETION
OF THE
FIRST TRANSPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
(PRT - 1)
LOAN No 3717 - PE - BIRF
December, 2000






FIRST TRANSPORTATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PRT-I
REPORT OF COMPLETION OF EXECUTION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.  EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES AND GOALS
1I.  EVALUATION OF RESULTS OBTAINED
II.  PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
IV.  PERFORMANCE OF WORLD BANK
V.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED FOR FUTURE PROJECTS






REPORT OF COMPLETION OF EXECUTION OF THE FIRST TRANSPORTATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT(PRT- 1)
1.    EVALUATION OF THE OBJECTIVES AND GOALS OF THE PROJECT
The broad economic crisis of the country at the beginning of the 90's and the lack of a road policy
originated a profound chaos in the communication network, a situation that had to be urgently reverted to
give support to the economic recovery. Thus, it was determined the need to develop a Program that was
named "First Transport Rehabilitation Project" PRT-1, especially devoted to diminishing the costs of the
transportation and consequently the reduction of the prices of the products. This project was to be
financed by credits from the BIRF, the KfW, the OPEC and a Japanese Grant.
The basic objectives defined to be reached through PRT-1 were the following: i) rehabilitation of the
essential transport infrastructure; ii) implementation of institutional reforms in the sub-sectors of
highways, railways and airports, with the purpose of optimizing the use of the resources and achieve a
sustainable development; iii) establish bases for future projects that will improve the administration of
highways, increasing private participation and more attention to the transportation infrastructure in the
sectors with less income.
During the execution of the Project, permanently and with support from the periodic missions from the
Bank, the accomplishments and difficulties were evaluated; where the partial or integral modification of
any of the basic objectives of the Project was never needed. However, regarding the established goals, as
a result of the improvement in the original design of the projects, higher costs of the works and
availability of economic resources, it was necessary to make adjustments en in other cases formulate new
goals.
Among the main modifications that were necessary to the goals of the Project, we have:
- Postponement of the works of the Highway Rioja - Tarapoto
- Transfer of the Program of Road Maintenance to the SINMAC, canceling the conservation works
planned and drafting only the Maintenance Pilot Plan SM
- Suspension of works of the stretch of the cycle road Av. Tupac Amaru (35 km.)
- Construction of the Yanango bridge
- Development of studies for the Project of Urban Metropolitan Transportation Lima - Callao (PROTUM)
- Drafting of the Master Plan of Civil Aviation and the Feasibility Study of the Second Road of the Jorge
Chavez Airport
- Amplification of the Promotion of Credit for Acquisition of Bicycles Campaign
- Redimensioning of the works and the efforts for recovery of the ENAFER fleet.
In the evaluation of the Project, it is very important to stress the high degree of complexity involved while
acting simultaneously adjusting to the Standards set by the World Bank and the reduced time frames
urgently demanded by the country for its recovery, considering additionally that the Project had been
drafted with a multi-modal conception, which included in addition to the highways and bridges projects,
the studies and works of non-motorized, railways, civil aeronautics, urban metropolitan transportation and
road safety.
Some external demands had to be overcome by the Project with the purpose of achieving the proposed
objectives and goals, among which we could mention as the more relevant ones, those derived from the
ampleness and particular characteristics of the regions where the works where done, as well as the
different climatic phenomena according to the season, the different types of geology and existing
geographic accidents, as well as the variety of hydrology of the Peruvian territory.



Other exceptional factors that affected the normal development of the Project were the following: i) the
threats received in the camps of the contractors by the last terrorist groups that were still active in
different regions of the Jungle; ii) the occurrence of strong rains with an intensity higher to those
forecasted for the seasons between November 97 and April 98 and November 98 through April 99, as a
consequence of "el Nifno Phenomenon" which affected the whole country, with severe consequences to
the highway infrastructure, bridges and railway works; iii) the performance of some contractors and
consultants that did not act with the due celerity, extending the completion periods, thus jeopardizing the
normal development of the activities..
However, in spite of the inconveniences faced, the adequate management of those responsible for the
administrative and operational aspects of the executing organisms allowed to reach satisfactorily the goals
established in the Project, which are shown in the Appendix and which are contributing substantially to
the development of the country, turning the PRT-1 into a facilitator and integrator of development with
alternate modes and ways which are more secure and faster, fostering growth of the different
socioeconomic activities of each region, promoting the generation of work, the access to health and
education services and helping in the reduction of the transportation costs which will drive commercial
and tourism exchange.
II.    EVALUATION OF RESULTS
The budget initially programmed was of US$ 242 million and the final costs of investment reached
approximately US$ 287 million, as shown in the Appendix, which equal a 194% over the amount
estimated in the preparation phase and which means a greater participation of Local investment which
exceeded US$ 93.5 million. It should be stressed though that the greater difference is found basically in
the increments of costs of the Components from the Highway Rehabilitation and Project Administration,
due mainly to the introduction of additional improvements not included in the base projects, as a
consequence of inaccuracies and/or defects in the projects and due to the larger volumes of work than
those initially foreseen as a result of climatic phenomena, sliding, collapse or undermining of platforms.
Additionally, it should be stressed that there were no significant changes or substantial variations in the
unit prices of the goods and services foreseen in the projects during the execution stage, due to the fact
that the budgets were expressed in American dollars and the inflation rates during this period were
minimal.
PRT-1 contributed in a decisive way to the reactivation of the transportation and construction sectors,
making it possible the utilization of the machinery and personnel of the national engineering, providing
direct work to approximately 66,000 men/month, which equals a total of more than 5,500 man/year, an
amount that is distributed in approximately 380 professionals, 620 technicians and 4564 assistants and
workers each year.
The benefits of the Project were highly profitable, initially with the dynamization of the economic activity
in the areas of influence through the generation of employment and globally through the direct benefits in
the operational costs of the vehicles with a significant profitability, especially in the roads that have been
improved at the asphalt carpet level; and in respect to the indirect benefits (well being of population,
improvement of competitiveness of the Peruvian export products and more economic stability within the
country), which although are difficult to quantiify, a substantial growth that has benefited the population
as a whole has been observed.
In the Project, the Highway Component was projected for the execution of activities in highways, bridges,
road maintenance, equipment of the Quality Control Office (OCC) and road safety, being assigned an



original amount of US$ 153,3 million, programming rehabilitation of 725 km of roads, the definite
replacement of 44 bridges, maintenance of 620 km of highways, equipment of the Laboratory of the
OCC, the dissemination of the values of road safety and design of future rehabilitation including
PROTUM.
During the execution phase, in addition to the reasons exposed in previous paragraphs, due to the state of
deterioration of the highways compared to the situation during the preparation stage of the Project and the
additional expense that it represented, it was necessary to trim the rehabilitation of roads to 589 km,
canceling the stretch Tarapoto-Rioja, the construction of only 37 bridges of the 44 programmed and the
elimination of the program of 620 km of road maintenance; however the final cost reached US$ 2216.13
million, that is a 40.95% over the estimated amount. The economic evaluation ex post of the highway
package for 20 years determines a Net Asset Value of US$ 356.24 million with a discount rate of 12, a
TIR of 38.1% and a Cost/Benefit of 4.31; the same ex post evaluation considering only the benefits
generated during the period between the beginning of the works and the closing date of the Project, shows
a favorable amount of US$ 83,580 million.
Within the Bridges Sub-component, the benefits were very important, being able to elaborate a new
General Bridges Regulations, a Bridges Management Computerized System SCAP, a General Inventory
of Structures at a national level, the acquisition and recovery of bridges and spare parts Bailey, as well as
the development of the works of the Groups of Bridges Marafi6n-Uctubamba and Huallaga, whose
rehabilitation works was commenced on April 15, 1999, due to initial difficulties in the granting of the
contract, and completing a cumulative advance of 91.4% and 86.48%, respectively, by October 31, 2000.
The Highway Maintenance Sub-component was structured with an amount of US$ 10.78 million, which
included a Pilot Program Study and Maintenance Works of 620 km; the Study showed that the
maintenance was only possible in 340 km, that is the 54% of the total objective, as the difference due to
the state of deterioration required rehabilitation works that meant an increase in costs, which demanded
cancellation of the works. Regarding the maintenance of already rehabilitated highways through the
Project, these have been transferred to SINMAC, as responsible for the development and execution of the
conservation policies of the National Road Network, that is progressively implementing them with
technical and material resources, for which a toll booth and weigh control installation program has been
established, as well as the application of random inspections that contribute to diminish the deterioration
of the roads.
The equipment of the Quality Control Office of the Roads General Management had a very important
success, increasing the number of trials from 721 during 1997 to 36,570 in 1999, being the main
requester, the state agencies for public works. Initially, a sum of US$ 682,960 was assigned, acquiring
and renovating equipment oriented to the design and control of asphalt samples, bitumen and asphalt
control, chemical analyses, quality control on concrete and cement, pavement and geo-technical studies.
Within the scope of the Road Safety, the increase in road accidents during the last years had forced the
Government to create the National Road Safety Council, reinforcing through this Organism the multi-
sectorial policy of accident prevention, with the intention of reverting the occurrence and severity of
traffic accidents at a medium term, and consequently, the reduction of expenses that these accidents give
rise to, Which amount annually ca. US$ 1000 million. This Sub-component with a global budget of US$
2.1 million implemented with satisfactory results: i) Master Study for Road Safety in Peru; ii) Execution
of four (4) Road Safety Pilot Projects (Coordination between CNSV, Education and Advertisement,
Accident Data and Infrastructure); and iii) Preparatory actions for the application of eight (8) Road Safety
Pilot Projects in PRT-2 (CNSV, Auto-sustainable Financing Mechanisms, Road Safety Engineering
Actions, Evaluation of Driver Applicants and Granting of Driving Licenses, Institutional Reinforcement
of the Police (PNP), Traffic Accident Information System, Education and Communication Programs).



The Railway Component had as its main objective, privatization of ENAFER; initially, it was foreseen
the execution of the works in a period of 2 years (1994-1996) and the transfer to private management by
the beginning of 1997, however, this was completed on 09/21/99, with the adjudication of the concession
to the Consorcio de Ferrocarriles del Peru, formed by eight companies, which subdivided the management
in: i) Central Railway (Minas Buenaventura, Mitsui del Peru, Estudio Olaechea; Inversiones Andino,
Railroad Development and Commonwealth Rail Group) and ii) Southern and South-eastern Railway (Sea
Containers and PeruVal). The executed investment reached the amount of US$ 40.83 million and required
19 bidding processes (17 international and 2 national). The results obtained after 5 years and 3 months of
the project were the following: 63.81% of rehabilitation (382.87 km of the 600 km programmed), 70.28%
of rehabilitation of engines (25.5 units out of 36 units programmed) and 94.30% of rehabilitation of cars
(370 units out of 393 units programmed). The main difficulties faced were: i) default on the provision of
sleepers; ii) prolonged process of adjudication of spare parts for engines; iii) non-completion of the works
of widening of the four zigzags of the central railway; and iv) cancellation of the telecommunications
works. From the ex post economic evaluation done during the first year of concession, with a projection
to 30 years, we obtain a Net Asset Value of US$ 23.04 million with a discount rate of 12% and a TIR of
17.33%.
The Aviation Component obtained very satisfactory results; through Japan Consultant, the development
of the Strategic Plan for the Civil Aviation in Peru was completed, a Plan that is being currently used by
CORPAC and the Civil Aviation General Management; also, through Birk Hillmman, the Feasibility
Study for a Second Road for the Jorge Chavez Airport was drafted; and the Rehabilitation of the Landing
and Taxiing Roads of the Airport was done, which were initially programmed for the second semester of
1995, but were delayed due to the lack of definition in the procedures and scope of the solution more
adequate that would allow to recover the roads without jeopardizing the daily operations and at the same
time with the future projection that the licensee had enough time for the new investments; afterwards, due
to the continuous requests by the airlines, justifying that they had previous commercial commitments,
which influenced in the delaying of the works, until it was impossible to delay it more during 1998 due to
operational safety limits. The estimated initial cost of the Component was of US$ 30.19 million and the
final expense reached the amount of US$ 11.65 million. This reduction was the result of the reformulation
of the rehabilitation works in the landing road and taxiing ways by performing only major repairs that will
ensure an 8-year useful life, the time frame projected for the construction of a Second Road that will
allow the definitive rehabilitation with the most recommended technical parameters. From the ex post
economic evaluation performed for the first year of operation with a projection of 15 years, we obtain a
Net Asset Value of US$ 3.74 million, with a discount rate of 12%, a TIR of 20,5% and Cost/Benefit of
1,6
The Non-Motorized transportation Component, was experimentally implemented in the North Cone of
Lima with the objective of promoting massive use of bicycles as an alternative popular and labor transport
medium, benefiting the user health and economy, while contributing at the same time with the protection
of the environment. It was executed with a total cost of US$ 3.43 million, among the main goals:
construction of three stretches of cycle roads with a total length of 45 km; application of a credit program
for the acquisition of bicycles with a maximum fund of US$ 600,000, already having been purchased
4,632 bicycles; development of promotional and educational campaigns about non motorized
transportation; and monitoring of the progress in this component. During the execution stage it was
necessary to apply corrective measurements that will allow the achievement of the goals established, thus
the construction of the cycle road in Tupac Amaru Avenue was cancelled (35 km.) and the following were
included: i) construction of the interconnection of the cycle roads in Av. Tomas Valle, ii) a maintenance
plan of the cycle roads for years 1998 and 1999 with the active participation of the District Municipalities,
iii) implementation of a social communication campaign, iv) a cleaning program for cycle roads for the



years 1999 and 2000 (Av. Universitaria and Tomas Valle), v) extension of the Monitoring of the Pilot
Plan until year 2000 and vi) elaboration of the Evaluation Study of the PPTNM.
The application of the Technical Assistance and Training Program reached a total amount of US$ 5.07
million and contributed favorably to the final result of the Project, allowing to support and promote
promulgation of a new Transportation Law, modernization and organizational reforms in the sector,
strengthening of the entities related to the PRT-1, preparation of future projects as the case of Rural
Roads, Road Maintenance, Environment and CNSV; it also allowed contracting of consulting firms and
skilled professionals to provide technical assistance to the offices of MTC, PRT, ENAFER, PPTNM,
SINMAC, CNSV, among others. Additionally, small training programs were organized for the technical
and administrative staff of the participating organisms of the Project, which facilitated optimization of the
results, introducing new technologies along with updating and improvement courses both in other
countries as well as within the country.
III.   PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
It is important to stress the decision of commitment from the Government of Peru with the World Bank
for the design and execution of the First Transportation Rehabilitation Project PRT-1, as well as the
compliance with the obligations established in the Loan Agreement, especially those related to
macroeconomic aspects, transportation sector policy and institutional reform, driving the optimization of
the administrative effort and the recruitment of efficient professional staff, looking for financial
improvements within the fiscal and user rights aspects.
It's been rated satisfactory the performance by the Borrower (Government, MTC, MEF, Executive
Organisms), reaching by the end of the Project the objectives and goals and execute almost in its entirety
the available funds. The interest and responsibility showed in the technical and administrative aspects,
and the permanent coordination with the Bank, allowed to identify and solve timely the problems that in
several instances demanded adjustment or modification of the goals in order to ensure the success of the
Project.
It should be stressed that the preparation of the Project was highly complex, due to the fact that the social
and economic conditions that the country was going through were deemed very critical. An intense and
close coordination activity between the Organisms involved from the State and the Bank was required,
considering the urgency of the Government to reactive the economy of the country and on the other hand
the prolonged procedures established by the Bank Standards. Notwithstanding, it was possible to assign
prudent time frames that allowed having the files from the priority activities and perform the respective
evaluations in the technical, economic, financial, institutional and environmental areas. Also, with the
purpose of ensuring results, specialized consulting services were contracted to support the management of
the Project, in the drafting of the Terms of Reference and Bases, in the development and review of the
Studies for the execution of the works.
Regarding the execution stage, compliance with the programs of activities developed for each component,
as well as the follow-up of the key indicators of implementation and the operational indicators of
performance, expedited the achievement of virtually all goals established or adjusted. During this stage,
the goalX of the components and the assigned amounts were reviewed, and in accordance with the World
Bank some goals were adjusted and others were moved to a next project, basically due to larger
investment costs than those initially considered, as a result of the Definitive Studies, Contests and
Bidding performed.
The work teams conformed by the Executive Organisms to carry on the technical and administrative
functions had a satisfactory performance, improving the quality of the results as the Project advanced. It



should be stressed that at the beginning of the PRT-1, as a result of an omission by previous governments
of development of transportation infrastructure, there was an evident lack of qualified human resources
with experience to satisfy the integral requirements for the adequate direction and execution of the
different studies, supervision and works that had to be performed.
This first Credit Agreement between the World Bank and the Government - Sector MTC (PERT-PRT),
meant the implementation and mandatory compliance of the procedures established in the Bank
Standards, which in those moments were not known nor applied in the systems of the transportation
sectors, because of which the Executive Organisms had to adapt, innovate and apply in all the activities
and technical-administrative processes, the above mentioned standards in order to fully achieve the goals
and objectives established.
IV.   PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
The ongoing participation of the Bank during the preparation, evaluation and supervision stages was very
important for the achievement of the objectives and goals, providing continuous administrative and
operational advice at all levels, which helped to overcome setbacks and difficulties that rose throughout
the development of the Project. In the same way, through the visits of the missions and communications
from Washington, the officers of the Bank showed interest, experience and knowledge, coordinating and
establishing dialogue with the different Government Organisms and in specific cases taking part in work
meetings with the consultants, proposing actions and/or alternatives with the purpose of solving existing
problems.
From the preparation works, the Bank showed a wide identification with the objectives of the Project,
which helped with the Integral Strategy of the Government to reactivate the transportation sector, which
in those moments was going through a collapse situation due to the lack of road infrastructure en good
condition and at the same time setting up solid foundations for promoting the development of the country.
During the evaluation stage, through a multidisciplinary professional team, the Bank undertook a task of
analysis and revision of the work performed during the first stage, identifying the possible risks that
would involve the execution of PRT-I and providing concrete solutions, obtaining as a final product the
Evaluation Report No. 12309-PE from February 17 1994, in which the transportation sector and the
economic situation of the country, the objectives and characteristics of the Project, the agreements
reached and recommendations for the optimum execution of the same are analyzed in depth.
During the supervision stage, the Bank assisted the Borrower through visits to the country by the
missions, work teams and communications from Washington, evaluating the performance of the advances
and progress, cooperating to troubleshoot and solve problems, formulating recommendations and
approving requirements, demonstrating promptness and flexibility towards proposals presented by the
Executive Organisms in the best interest of overcoming difficulties and optimize execution of the Project.
In specific cases, they promptly approved the partial or total modification of goals and the consequent
restructuring of costs of the Project. Furthermore, the responses from the Bank to the requests for No
Objection in terms of time, mainly for issues regarding approval of additional budget for works and
supervision, allowed the normal development of the works.
V.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED FOR FUTURE PROJECTS
During the phase of preparation of the projects for the restructuring of the activities schedules (studies and
works), reasonable and flexible deadlines should be taken into account so that they allow the proper
compliance with the required works within prudent time frames (not adjusted deadlines). In the specific
case of the highway projects, those located in the mountain and jungle regions, it is convenient to limit the



stretches for contracting of works to distances not to exceed 45 km, with estimated deadlines between 12
and 18 months, as that allows a better management and the compliance with contractual obligations; in
addition, the reduced level of performance of qualified labor force in the rural areas should be evaluated,
as well as the periods of strong rain.
In the formulation of the Feasibility Studies, Basic Engineering Studies and Definitive Studies, a good
quality control is critical giving special attention to the topographic, geologic, hydrologic, climatic and
environmental studies, with emphasis in the field investigation phase, soil and subsoil testing (with
backside excavations of 2 m depth as a minimum, in distances of no more than 200 meters); also, the
solution of critical points should be considered, the stabilization of banks (upper and lower), appropriate
emergency lanes, the design of efficient drainage, the mitigation of negative environmental impact and
the optimization of the road safety. The approval of the Definitive Studies must be very demanding, as
that is a way of ensuring the successful completion of the works; if not done so, during the execution
there could be defects, deficiencies or omissions, which could give rise to additional delays and budgets
with very high percentages in relation to the budget established in the contract, putting the objectives of
the Project in risk.
The Definitive Studies in the case of highways, require additionally a specialized review in the aspects of
road safety, with the purpose of decreasing the problems related to the designs, which will help to
minimize significantly the possible future expenses for modifications or corrections after construction. It
is important to consider in the terms of reference for the Studies, the basic concepts of road safety and
during the construction phase the application of audits.
For future contests or bidding processes, with the purpose of optimizing results and avoid jeopardizing
the completion of the studies or works during the selection, we should:
a.    Implement considerations that will impede awarding the contract to Bidders (Consultants or
Contractors) with a limited contracting economic capacity; requiring during the selection stage the
sufficient liquidity that will ensure progress without depending entirely from contractual payments.
b.     Disqualify bidders who present offers below a reasonable margin with regard to the referential
budget (offers below 90%).
c.    In the event that international companies bid, the mandatory direct participation should be
required, through the assignment and permanent residence of its specialized technical staff (foreign) until
the project has been concluded.
d.    Program in the future the contests and bidding processes through the post-qualification modality,
as the more flexibility of the submittal stage allows for a greater number of bidders, reducing thus the
possibilities of arrangements in prices.
e.    Distinguish in the terms of reference for the projects of highways the concepts and scope of the
Basic Engineering Studies and the Engineering Projects, being convenient to separate them during the
execution and presentation phases.
Other alternatives to be evaluated for the future development of studies and works that ensure continuity,
could rise fostering contracting through:
a.    Qesign-Construction System, in the modality of lump sum turnkey, that aims to avoid work add-
ons, where the contractor performs the final designs and constructs, for which it receives the basic
engineering studies from the selected consultant, which will supervise afterwards the construction. A
minimum maintenance of two years should be considered after finishing the works (post-construction).
b.     Total Responsibility System, through which the Entity would grant the execution responsibility of
the public work to one contractor, which will be in charge from the design of the Project, construction and
total operation (including maintenance) for periods of 15 years or more.



The policy of reduction of the state machine and more opportunities for the private sector companies and
institutions should stay in effect, fostering additionally the participation of the national companies in the
project execution (studies, works and supervision), making it possible the technical and economic
strengthening and an increase in the degree of efficiency and competitivity. In such sense, during the
phase of selection (contest or bidding process), the bases could include dispositions that promote
formation of consortiums of national or combined companies, granting them special bonuses in the score
of pre-qualification.
On the medium term a "National Transportation Investment Plan" should be implemented, which will
optimize the operational, maintenance and rehabilitation areas, helping in the reduction of transportation
costs and consequently with the reduction of prices of goods for domestic consumption as well as for
export. In such sense, it is imperative on the short term to elaborate and manage a "Central Information
Bank", which will gather data from all the projects executed and still under way, including the problems
and solutions applied, analyses of estimated and/or proposed cost structures, offers presented by the
contractors and validations during the execution of the works. Likewise, it is necessary to have a "Project
Portfolio" that will make possible the efficient availability of technical and financial information about
the Projects that are ready for execution, sorted by priority and matching the different requirements for its
execution with the respective procurement plans.
The ongoing elaboration and updating of technical publications should be favored, the same which should
try to set standards and expedite the management and best results of the studies and works, considering
among those with higher priority the handbooks titled: "Cost standardization for the design of highways",
"Geometric Design of Highways", "General Technical Specifications for the Construction of Highways",
"Measurements and Budgets in Road Issues", " Work Supervision", "Studies Supervision", "National
Standards for Road Signaling" and "Environmental Protection Standards".
This first experience has made possible the identification of procedures for future projects and the
establishment of the need to implement and operational handbook that will standardize the different
processes that are required during the execution of a project type PRT-1, defining the steps and time
frames that must be met for each of the activities, which should be adjusted to the real needs and future
requirements.
For the procurement of materials, from the experience gathered in the rehabilitation of ENAFER, during
the process of acquisition of spare parts for engines and cars, with the modality of open purchase and per
article, when possible the contracts should be entered into with the manufacturers of machinery and
equipment, avoiding negotiations with intermediaries or dealers that in some instances provide articles in
bad conditions or out of the range of need.
In the field of economic evaluations, both ex ante and ex post, of rehabilitated highways and bridges, for
them to be comparable and in order to obtain optimum results from the benefits reaped, it is necessary
that the traffic counts be done in similar stations (geographic points) and that the traffic studies employ
adequate and updated factors of seasonal correction, the same that will avoid distortion in the values of
the indicators of profitability and negative effects in the generation of benefits.
In the training aspect, with the purpose of optimizing future efforts, it is advisable to invest and study
deeply especially such critical points as:
a.     Significant training programs at a national and intemational level aimed towards professionals
and technicians from the executive organisms, for the knowledge and application of new



technologies of construction and maintenance; as well as administrative procedures, giving
special attention to the organization of files, add-ons, extensions and others.
b.     Foster periodic training and updating of the professionals and technicians of the private
companies that provide services or are interested in doing so, like project contractors, constructors,
supervisors and other modalities.
It is critical to promote and sustain the maintenance plans of the recently rehabilitated highways that will
ensure continuity of the ways and avoid its progressive deterioration, for which it is necessary to have and
strengthen: i) assignment of the necessary funds through toll collection (auto-sustainable) and the
obligatory nature of the fiscal contribution in case it is necessary to cover differences; ii) the
implementation of weighting controls of heavy vehicles that could endanger the conservation of
highways; iii) establish a monitoring plan with the purpose of supervising the state of conservation of the
rehabilitated highways and the routine and periodic maintenance programs. In the same way, it is
necessary to foster creation of local companies that perform the minor maintenance tasks of highways and
bridges in the remote zones, where the presence of work equipment from MTC will be too limited,
difficult or cost ineffective.
The PRT, as a specialized organism in the development of transportation investment programs, sponsored
by international financial entities such as the World Bank, require that in the Organization of the Project
Management BIRF a professional or team of professionals be included permanently, which will be
responsible for the management of the preparation, follow up, monitoring, coordination, control, reports
and filing of the different activities and progress of the Projects type PRT-1, as well as the respective
closing processes. As background, with very effective results we can cite ENAFER and the Metropolitan
Municipality of Lima, the functions performed by their Coordination Units (provided in the Loan
Agreement), that constituted a permanent and efficient liaison between the Bank, the Borrower and the
Executive Organism.



