Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3717 PE
                             Project Agreement
                    (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                  EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES S.A.
                            Dated June 3, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3717 PE
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE
FERROCARRILES S.A. (ENAFER).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Peru (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000 equivalent), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
ENAFER agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth
in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ENAFER, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be relent to ENAFER on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS ENAFER, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. ENAFER declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end,
shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
railway transportation, and environmental practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for Part B of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. ENAFER shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part B of the Project.
      Section 2.04. ENAFER shall duly perform all its obligations under the
ENAFER Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ENAFER shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the ENAFER Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) ENAFER shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the ENAFER
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
      (b)   ENAFER shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance
by ENAFER of its obligations under this Agreement and under the ENAFER
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
      (c)   ENAFER shall provide to the PCU all information the PCU shall
reasonably request with respect to the execution of Part B of the Project
and shall assist the Borrower in meeting its obligations under Section 3.07
(a) of the Loan Agreement with respect to Part B of the Project. ENAFER
shall participate in the reviews described in Section 3.07 (b) and (c) of
the Loan Agreement with respect to Part B of the Project. ENAFER shall
promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be
necessary for the efficient execution of Part B of the Project or the
attainment of its objectives if, as a result of any of the reviews referred
to in the previous sentence, progress in the execution of Part B of the
Project or in the attainment of its objectives is not satisfactory to the
Bank.
      Section 2.06. For the purpose of the execution of Part B (1) of the
Project, ENAFER shall accept the secondment from the PCU of the coordinator,
the mechanical engineer and the track engineer referred to in Section 3.11
of the Loan Agreement.
      Section 2.07. For the purpose of Part B.2 of the Project, ENAFER shall
prepare, and thereafter carry out, a timed action plan acceptable to the
Bank providing, inter alia, for:
Page  3
      (a)   decentralization of its management into at least three separate
operating divisions with their own separate accounts and records, labor,
rolling stock, ways and structures, and management, and eventual division
of ENAFER into legally separate companies;
      (b)   closing down unprofitable railway services or, if such services
are deemed in the national interest, ensuring that ENAFER or its successor
companies are no longer responsible for operating deficits;
      (c)   restructuring of its staff and payment of severance and
retirement pay; and
      (d)   sale of non-operational assets.
                                ARTICLE III
                    Management and Operations of ENAFER
      Section 3.01. ENAFER shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, transportation,
environment and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. ENAFER shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and transportation practices.
      Section 3.03. ENAFER shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
      Section 3.04. ENAFER shall prepare a staff training program to improve
labor productivity and shall forward said program to the Bank by December
31, 1994 for its review and comment.
      Section 3.05. ENAFER shall not commit itself to any investment in any
one year during the execution of the Project without the prior approval of
the Bank if ENAFER's prior investment commitments during such year amount
to $5,000,000 or more. For the purpose of the Bank's review of each such
proposed investment, ENAFER shall provide the Bank with such information
about the proposed investment as the Bank may reasonably request.
      Section 3.06. Prior to the division of ENAFER into legally separate
companies in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 (a) of this
Agreement, ENAFER, together with the Borrower, shall present to the Bank a
proposal for the modification of this Agreement, the Loan Agreement and the
ENAFER Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) ENAFER shall maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, including separate records
and accounts reflecting the resources and expenditures in respect of Part
B of the Project.
      (b)   ENAFER shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section and its financial statements (balance
                  sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
                  statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   starting with fiscal year 1994, furnish to the Bank as
                  soon as available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year: (A) certified
Page  4
                  copies of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records, accounts and financial statements as well
                  as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, or for
all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the
Special Account, ENAFER shall provide to the Borrower all records and
accounts necessary to allow the Borrower to perform its obligations
punctually under Article IV of the Loan Account.
      Section 4.02. ENAFER shall open a separate account in local currency
for the purpose of receiving and accounting for the Borrower's contribution
to the cost of Part B of the Project.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
ENAFER thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly
notify ENAFER thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For ENAFER:
            Jiron Ancash 207
            Lima 1
            Peru
Page  5
                                          Telex:
                                            25068 PE
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of ENAFER may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board or
such other person or persons as the Chairman of the Board shall designate
in writing, and ENAFER shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                        EMPRESA NACIONAL DE FERROCARRILES S.A.
                        By /s/ Angel Palomino Aviles
                                                Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into
Page  6
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Peru may be granted a
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Specialized equipment with a small number of suppliers may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list
satisfactory to the Bank of qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.    Works up to an aggregate amount of $1,600,000 equivalent and equipment
and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $6,800,000, shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    Equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; (ii) each contract for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (iii) the first contract for
works and the first contract for goods estimated to cost less than the
amounts set forth in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist ENAFER in carrying out Part B (1)(vi) of the
Project, ENAFER shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:
Page  7
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
