Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3717 PE
                             Project Agreement
                    (Transport Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                    MUNICIPALIDAD DE LIMA METROPOLITANA
                            Dated June 3, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3717 PE
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALIDAD DE LIMA
METROPOLITANA (MLM).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Peru (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that MLM agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this
Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and MLM, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement will be relent to MLM on the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS MLM, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set
forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. MLM declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end,
shall carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
transportation and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part D of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the works and consultants' services required for Part D of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. MLM shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part D of the Project.
      Section 2.04. MLM shall duly perform all its obligations under the MLM
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MLM
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the MLM Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) MLM shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange
views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part D of the Project,
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the MLM
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.
      (b)   MLM shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part D of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance
by MLM of its obligations under this Agreement and under the MLM Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
      (c)   MLM shall provide to the PCU all information the PCU shall
reasonably request with respect to the execution of Part D of the Project
and shall assist the Borrower in meeting its obligations under Section 3.07
(a) of the Loan Agreement with respect to Part D of the Project. MLM shall
participate in the reviews described in Section 3.07 (b) and (c) of the Loan
Agreement with respect to Part D of the Project. MLM shall promptly take all
such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the
efficient execution of Part D of the Project or the attainment of its
objectives if, as a result of any of the reviews referred to in the previous
sentence, progress in the execution of Part D of the Project or in the
attainment of its objectives is not satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 2.06. At all times during the execution of Part D of the
Project, MLM shall employ a coordinator, whose qualifications and experience
shall be acceptable to the Bank, for the execution of Part D of the Project
under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 2.07. MLM shall, for the purposes of the execution of Part D.2
of the Project: (a) cause CMCPL to issue, and thereafter to use, an
operational directive for its staff acceptable to the Bank setting forth the
operational procedures and criteria for Subloans, including the criteria and
terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 2 to the MLM Project Agreement,
Page  3
and including a model loan agreement to be used for Subloans; and (b) make
available to CMCPL the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (7) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
the financing of Subloans.
                                ARTICLE III
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) MLM shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, including separate records
and accounts reflecting the resources and expenditures in respect of Part
D of the Project.
      (b)   MLM shall:
            (i)   have the separate records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, or for
all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the
Special Account, MLM shall provide to the Borrower all records and accounts
necessary to allow the Borrower to perform its obligations punctually under
Article IV of the Loan Account.
      Section 3.02. MLM shall open a separate account in local currency for
the purpose of receiving and accounting for MLM's contribution to the cost
of Part D of the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of
MLM thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify
MLM thereof.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE V
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
Page  4
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For MLM:
            Municipalidad de Lima Metropolitana
            Av. Nicolas de Pierola 1785
            Lima 1
            Peru
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of MLM may be taken or executed by the Chief of the MLM Program for
Non-Motorized Transport or such other person or persons as said officer
shall designate in writing, and MLM shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                        MUNICIPALDAD DE LIMA METROPOLITANA
                        By /s/ Eduardo Dargent Chamot
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
Page  5
1.    Works up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,600,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part B:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more; and (ii) the first contract for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $1,000,000, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist MLM in the execution of Part D of the Project, MLM
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-
based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less
than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                   Execution of Part D(2) of the Project
1.    Eligibility Criteria for Subloans
      (a)   Applicants must have monthly earnings of less than $150
equivalent and assets of less than $5,000 equivalent.
      (b)   Applicants must reside in the influence area of the pilot
project for non-motorized transport executed under Part D (1) of the Project
Page  6
as defined in the CMCPL Directive.
2.    Terms and Conditions of Subloans
      (a)   Purpose: purchase of bicycles costing no more than $100
equivalent including value added tax
      (b)   Term: 12 months
      (c)   Interest rate: competitive commercial rates
      (d)   Maximum amount of Subloan: $91 equivalent
      (e)   Downpayment required: 10%
      (f)   Repayment provisions: equal monthly installments.
3.    Obligations of CMCPL
      (a)   Periodically CMCPL shall provide reimbursement requests for
Subloans satisfying the requirements of the CMCPL Directive and this
Schedule to the PCU for refinancing under the Loan. For this purpose, CMCPL
shall provide the PCU with such information as CMCPL may require concerning
the Subloans.
      (b)   CMCPL shall prepare and submit quarterly progress reports to MLM
and the PCU. Said reports shall provide information on: (i) the number of
credits to employees in the formal sector; (ii) the number of credits to
employees in the informal sector; (iii) the total amount of outstanding
credits; and (iv) the status of credit recovery, for employees in both the
formal and the informal sector.
