Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17980
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Loan 2985-UNI)
May 21, 1998
Water and Urban 2
Africa Region                                                ,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =         Naira (N)
US$1         =       4.56  (1988)
=       7.38  (1989)
=       8.06  (1990)
=      W10.46  (1991)
=      17.26  (1992)
=     23.46  (1993)
=      21.94  (1994)
=      71.75  (1995)
81.49  (1996)
=      82.20  (1997)
Fiscal Year
January to December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)     -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3) =   264.2 US gallons or 220
imperial gallons
1 kilometer (kin)  =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 liter per capita   =   0.26 US gallons per capita
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
EIB                 European Investment Bank
LASG                Lagos State Government
LSWC                Lagos State Water Corporation
MLD                 million liters per day
NWRP                National Water Rehabilitation Project
NWWI                Northwest Water International
PCU                 Planning Control Unit
PTF                 Petroleum Trust Fund
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
u-f-w               Unaccounted for water
UNDP                United Nations Development Program
WTP                 Willingness to pay
Vice President:         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:       Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:         Letitia A. Obeng
Cluster Leader:         David Henley



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART I         PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.             Background .........................1
B.             Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .........................1
C.             Achievement of Project Objectives .........................4
D.             Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................7
E.             Project Sustainability .........................9
F.             Bank Performance .........................9
G.             Borrower Performance ........................                       10
H.             Assessment of Outcome ........................                       10
-.             Future Operations .........................11
J.             Key Lessons Learned .........................11
PART I1                STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1.              Summary of Assessments
Table 2.              Related Loans and Credits
Table 3.              Project Timetable
Table 4.              Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5.              Studies Included in Project
Table 6A.             Project Costs
Table 6B.             Project Financing
Table 7.              Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 8.              Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9.              Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10.             Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11.             Financial & Operating Indicators
Table 12.             Targeted and Achieved Outputs
Table 13.             Implementation Schedule
Appendices:   A.    Mission's Aide Memoire
B.     Borrower Contribution to ICR
C.     Map
Tlus document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LN 2985-UNI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Lagos State Water Supply
Project of the Republic of Nigeria, for which Loan 2985-UNI in the amount of US$173,200,000
was approved on March 31, 1989. The Loan was made to the Republic of Nigeria. Cofinancing
for the project was to be provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB), the Government of
Canada (CIDA), United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and French Commercial Banks,
but the EIB withdrew its participation in 1992.
The loan's original closing date was March 31, 1996, but was extended twice to its
eventual closing date of December 31, 1997. Final disbursement took place on May 13, 1998.
The loan was fully disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by Eleanor Warner (Fin. Analyst) Water & Urban 2, Eugene
Okongwu (San. Engr) Resident Mission, and Kavita Sethi (Economist - Consultant) and reviewed
at a meeting dated May 19, 1998 chaired by Mr. Yaw Ansu, Country Director for Nigeria. The
beneficiary and implementing agency, Lagos State Water Corporation, contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by commenting on the Bank's draft and preparing an evaluation which is
attached in Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's February 1998 supervision/completion
mission led by Mr. David Henley. The ICR is based on material in the project file and on
information provided by the LSWC. Comments were also received from staff involved at different
stages of the project; these comments have been incorporated in the ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LN 2985-UNI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The Government of Nigeria in early 1980 requested the Bank's assistance to help leverage
investments then planned by French commercial banks and formulate a water sector development
strategy for Lagos State. The Lagos State Water Supply Project was conceived as the first of a
three-phased 15-year expansion program to address the existing institutional inadequacies and to
meet the demands of a rapidly growing population. This was the first World Bank loan to develop
the Lagos water supply sector. Prior to this there were 3 other loans for development of large
urban water schemes in other states of Nigeria.
Project Objectives
ii.    The project objectives were to: (a) increase population access to public water supplies by
doubling production capacity and more than doubling the number of direct connections; (b)
eliminate recurrent subvention from the Lagos State Government (LASG) to Lagos State Water
Corporation (LSWC) for recurrent expenditures; and (c) strengthen LSWC including its
management, operations and maintenance, training facilities and programs, manpower
development, accountability, economic efficiency, financial performance and future viability.
iii.    The design of components to meet these objectives was adequate, consisting of: expansion
of water production facilities at Adiyan; transmission and distribution system; provision of
installation materials and meters for new service connections; rehabilitation of existing water
production facilities (Ishasi & mini water works); improvement of administrative infrastructure;
and institutional support.
iv.    Evaluation of Objectives and Risks: The physical objectives of the project were justified
given the huge backlog of investments in urban water supply. One of the major risks identified at
appraisal was the inability of LSWC to oversee the satisfactory implementation and management
of the project, and heavy emphasis was placed on improving the corporation in four key functional
areas. However, it turned out that too many initiatives were programmed to take place
simultaneously which taxed the capacity of an institution in change and delayed the attainment of
the project's goals within the stated timeframe. This was also complicated by LASG defaulting on
its covenants to grant full autonomy to LSWC and to support an economic tariff.
v.    Financial Objecives: The project was to lead to the reduction of recurrent subvention
and indirecdy improve public expenditure policies. Gradual targets were set to allow LSWC to
cover cash operating expenses and the greater of depreciation or debt servicing with the overall aim
to allow it to achieve an improved rate or return on its net assets employed. LSWC has not been
able to cover its cash operating expenses from water sales in any of its 8 years of project
implementation (paras 10 & 11). Recurrent subventions continued throughout the life of the
project. This has been due partly to a weak tariff and delays in implementing commercial
management improvements. The project was unable to meet its financial objectives because they
were too ambitious to be attained within the timeframe of the project.



vii.   Economic Objectives: The project was to increase the economic efficiency of water
provision by LSWC. Improvement in economic efficiency included implementation of an economic
tariff, cost effective production of water via improved maintenance and reduced water leakages,
increase in total supply through additional production facilities and reduction in physical losses,
and enhanced economic benefits through increased distribution to areas with the greatest water
scarcity. The limited revision of tariffs, the unexpectedly low capacity utilisation and relatively
high levels of u-f-w have caused an attrition in the projected economic benefits.
Implementation Experience and Results
viii.  Achkvement of Objectives: The project's physical objectives were partially achieved.
Prior to the project, production capacity was 301.5 MLD (in 1985) with actual production of 216
MLD. Existing distribution had 1,200 km of secondary and tertiary pipelines, estimated 83,000
connections (of which 8,000 was industrial), and 2,800 standpipes; and served about 2 million
people. The project set out to more than double production capacity (621 MLD) and achieved that
target (though some four mini water works are not functional because of unmet rehabilitation
needs). The distribution system planned under the project was 1157 km of secondary and tertiary
pipelines, 110,000 connections, and 420 standpipes. Due to funding constraint, only 640 km of
secondary and tertiary pipelines were provided, with about 25,000 to 30,000 new connections and
380 standpipes. Population with access has increased to about 3.1 million. It is thus apparent
that while actual production has doubled, the distribution system did not increase in commensurate
manner, partly due to EIB's cancellation (para 26). Service through standpipes is uncertain (due
to poor record-keeping) but may have increased from 420,000 to about 1 million people (378
standpipes were provided under the project and level of service has increased at the existing 2,800
standpipes).
ix.    Achievement of the financial objectives was fair. While the objective of increasing water
supply was partially met, delays in strengthening institutional capacity due largely to the scale of
support needed, weak tariff policy, inadequate cash generation, weak billing and collection, and
unplanned changes in management made it difficult to achieve the objective of making the sector
financially viable.
x.    Achievement of the economic objectives was limited. The partial realisation of the
project's physical and financial goals limited the project's economic benefits. The decline in real
tariffs over time, relatively high leakage, unexpected, low capacity utilisation, and slow increase in
the number of connections and population coverage caused unit costs of production to be higher
than targeted, and did not allow the projected increase in the delivery of water with associated
economic benefits.
Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability
xi.    A reasonable volume of water has been introduced into the system with the completion and
rehabilitation of substantial production facilities. However, there remains substantial deficiency in
the distribution network which ultimately affects coverage and sustainability.
xii.  Institutionally, the administrative infrastructure has been strengthened, including erection
of a new headquarters building, 5 zonal and 4 area offices. Vehicles, operating equipment and
some spare parts have been purchased and delivered though with considerable delay. Although
limited quantities of consumer meters were procured under the project, installation proceeded very
slowly and did not meet SAR expectations. LSWC has improved in technical expertise,



managerial and commercial, financial and accounting areas. The foundation has been laid, albeit
delayed, largely because the starting base was grossly weak. LSWC must now build upon it.
ximi. LSWC's ability to build upon the project's foundation depends upon its commitment to
persevere with the improvements it has commenced and to pursue its proposed sector restructuring
to introduce private participation (para 44).
Summary of Key Lessons Learned
xiv.   Pressures to come up with estimates at the time of project appraisal on indicators such as
unaccounted-for-water (u-f-w), number of existing connections etc lead to the creation of weak
databases from which to forecast expectations. The result is a wide gap between forecast and
actual outcome (para 41).
xv.   Expectations for project startup should be carefully made in line with an implementing
agency's prior experience with Bank projects (para 42).
xvi.   Very weak institutions should be assisted incrementally with projects that are modest in
design and objectives. In this context, twinning could provide an important contribution to
institutional development. However, in order to achieve sustained results, a more radical approach
is needed such as private sector participation in operations (para 45).
xvii.  Close attention needs to be given to consumer connections and customer management in
project design (para 45, v) to ensure adequate cash flows.
xviii. The question of continuity in leadership and management of water authorities needs to be
addressed at the state and federal levels.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS STATE WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LN 2985-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    The project period (1989-1997) witnessed numerous policy and political changes that
influenced the implementation context. Nigeria made a conscious but incomplete attempt at
stuctural adjustment during 1986-1993. By 1991, however, slippages in fiscal discipline and
public resource management led to withdrawal of Bank and IMF adjustment support. Large fiscal
deficits were recorded and economic growth stagnated. GNP per capita declined from US$1,180
in 1980 to US$260 in 1995. Income inequality increased and- 34% of the population was classified
as poor. Basic social indicators now place Nigeria among the 20 poorest countries worldwide.
Real wages of public employee, including employees of LSWC, decreased approximately by a
factor of 10 (1986-1997). Inflation which peaked at 72.9% in 1995 averaged 38% annually
(1987-97). The ratio of wages of LSWC employees to those of comparable positions in the private
sector is about 1:25. This has contributed to institutional decline in Nigeria's public and parastatal
agencies.
2.    The Bank's assistance was sought in early 1980 to help leverage investments which were
being considered by French commercial banks. A sector development strategy was formulated and
the Lagos State Water Supply Project evolved therefrom as the first of a three-phased 15-year
expansion program to address institutional inadequacies and to meet the demands of a rapidly
growing population. Estimates of Lagos' population today are 7.5 million with a 3% growth rate.
3.    In addition to this project, the Bank has funded new water supply systems in state capitals
and technical assistance for project planning and institutional strengthening, including four major
urban water supply projects, three of which, Kaduna (Ln 171 1-UNI, approved 1979), Anambra
(Ln 2036-UNI, 1981), Bomno (Ln 2528-UNI, 1985) have been completed and one, Kaduna and
Katsina, (Cr 2372, 1993) is under execution. The Bank also approved the National Water
Rehabilitation Project (NWRP, Ln 3322-UNI, 1991) which is providing limited funds (up to
US$S10 million) to each state for urgently needed rehabilitation and equipment. The NWRP is also
helping to upgrade state water agencies through institutional strengthening and training.
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
4.    The project's objectives as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to:
(a)   increase populaton access to public water supplies (doubling of production
capacity and primary, secondary and tertary distribution network and more than
doubling the number of direct connections;
(b)   eliminate recurrent subvention support from LASG and thus, indirectly, improve
public expenditure policies;



2
(c)   strengten the executing agency, LSWC, including divisional operations, training
facilities and programs, manpower management and accountability;
(d)   improve the administrative efficiency of LSWC's operations and maintenance
(adminitrave infrastucture and support services including offices, depots,
workshops, stores, vehicles, spare parts, rehabilitation of existing assets); and
(e)   improve the economic efficiency, financial performance and future viability of
LSWC (cost-reflecting tariff policy, metering, billing and collection procedures,
new accomting systems).
Statement of Project Components
5.    The project was designed to be the first phase of a three-phased 15-year expansion
program consisting of the following components:
(a)    Expansion of Water Supply Facilities
(i)    An intake structure on the Ogun River at Akure, raw water pumping
station and 8.2 km of 1,600 mm diameter raw water main to a
320,000m3/d treatement plant to be constructed at Adiyan for
flocculation, clarification, aeration, rapid sand filtration, disinfection,
ueated water pumping, transmission and storage at Oke-Aro reservoir
(100,000 m3) and standby generators;
(b)    Transmission and Distribution System
(i)    Laying of approximately 65.5 km of steel pipes and fittings varying in
diameter from 2,000 mm to 800 mm from Adiyan waterworks to and
within metropolitan Lagos; and supply and laying of additional 14 km of
pipeline of the same range of sizes to improve access in the northern part
of the city;
(ii)   Supply and laying of approximately 280 km of secondary pipeline ranging
in sizes from 800 to 300 mm and 877 km of tertiary pipes of diameter
smaller than 300 mmn together with valves and fittings; and
(iii)   Provision and installation of materials for approximately 110,000 new
service connections, together with 75,000 meters (consumer as well as
production and zonal) and 420 additional public standposts.
(c)    Rehabilitation of Existing Systems
(i)    Rehabilitation works, including the anti-salinity weir on the Ogun River to
eliminate salt water intrusion; the Ishasi waterworks; several mini
waterworks to bring them up to design output; rehabilitation of about 94
kn of pipelines including replacements for defective valves and hydrants,
and other spare parts and materials appropriate for improving the
performance of LSWC's facilities.
(d)   Administrative Infrastructure
(i)    Expansion, improvement and/or rehabilitation of offices, workshops,
depot and stores facilities and housing for operating personnel;
(ii)   Provision of vehicles and mobile plant and workshop, distribution system,
communications and training equipment and tools; and



3
(iii)   Provision and installation of data processing equipment.
(e)   Institutional Support
(i)    Consultant services (940 man-months) for a hydraulic analysis of the
Lagos Metropolitan Area distribution system; for detailed design of
primary, secondary and tertiary systems and supervision of construction
of Adiyan treatment plant and of the laying of primary, secondary and
tertiary mains and new service connections;
(ii)    A twinning arrangement (282 man-months) in the areas of project
management, accounting, billing & collection, computing and data
processing, decentralization and O&M;
(iii)   Development of traininig programs, overseas secondment of LSWC staff
for training in key areas of activity and 60 man-months of training expert
support,
(iv)   Support for semi-annual Implementation Planning/Review Workshops;
(v)    Studies of groundwater potential and usage and development of
appropriate sanitation technologies to cope with increased access
to public water supplies; and
(vi)   An organization and management study of LSWC.
Relevant Loan Covenants
6.    The project's objectives were reinforced by financial covenants requiring it to produce for
each year total revenues sufficient to cover the following proportion of cash operating expenses:
1989 - 50%; 1990 - 75%; 1991 - 100%. From 1992 onward, the LSWC was required to finance
from its revenues the sum of cash operating expenses and the greater of annual debt service or
depreciation: 1992 - 60%; 1993 - 75%; 1994 - 90%; and 1995 - 100%. Several other covenants
ntended to underpin the project's objectives related to timely counterpart fund flows, increased
autonomy of LSWC, timely submission of audits and assignment of staff to twinning partners.
Evaluation of Project Objectives and Covenants
7.    The project's objectives were clear and consistent with the underlying goal to develop
LSWC over a 15-year period. The major problem with the project's objectives which made it
difficult for the project to attain them is that they were too ambitious to be achieved in a single
project. The financial objectives were unrealistic given the very weak database on production and
consumption and the low level of operating efficiency. Secondly, the timeframe for achieving
financial viability is generally linked with physical progress. All of the previous water supply
projects in Nigeria experienced startup delays, but the SAR did not appear to consider the impact
of a possible start-up delay in setting the timeframe for reaching financial viability.
8.    The principal risk of the project was fairly well identified in the SAR as being LSWC's
lack of autonomy to oversee the project to its satisfactory implementation, including its inability to
implement a full economic, cost-reflecting tariff policy. Measures were mentioned in the SAR to
mitigate this risk. The autonomy was not granted, and a cost-reflecting tariff was not effectively
implemented. In retrospect, while a full economic tariff policy is desirable, the SAR was not
realistic in its expectations that this should be achieved within the timeframe of the project as this
would have required frequent sizeable tariff increases irrespective of the standard of service. This
was complicated by the fact that customer enumeration was non-existent; technical and logistical



4
issues related to full metering were not resolved; only a very limited number of customers were
billed and on a flat rate basis; staff were inexperienced in commercial billing and collection
procedures; and the population of Lagos expected to receive free water. The SAR also did not
provide for customer awareness programs combined with regular support from the state governors
for a rational tariff policy.
9.    Revenue generation covenants are adequate for most utilities, but they need to be tailored
to individual circumstances. In the case of LSWC, a cash generation covenant would have been a
more relevant indicator of liquidity and ability to meet cash obligations. While the revenue
covenant was met from 1993 onward, there was no cash to meet expenses because of continued
weaknesses in customer management (para. 10 below), which is a reflection of the weak design of
this covenant.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   Financial Objectives: LSWC was expected to generate sufficient earnings to eliminate
operating subventions, meet all operating costs and the greater of debt service or depreciation.
This was intended to be achieved gradually according to the table below. While the data suggests
that LSWC achieved its objectives from 1993 onward, it masks fundamental problems. There is a
disconnect between LSWC's published revenue figures and its customer registers. Prior to 1995,
due to poor management of customer databases, bills were produced and delivered without
expectation of collection. Revenue figures were grossly overstated while at the same time
operating expenses were understated to fit expected cash flows. Actual collections averaged about
20% of billings annually. The result is that LSWC remains dependent upon government recurrent
and debt service subvention.
Actual
Revenues as a % of             Collections as
% of Revenue'
Year  Cash Oper. Exp.   Cash Oper. Exp. +
Debt Service
Projected  Actual  Projected   Actual
1989   50%      n.a.      0%       n.a.        n.a.
1990   75%      11%       0%       n.a.        n.a.
1991   100%     41%       0%       n.a.        n.a.
1992   100%     81%      60%       35%         n.a.
1993   100%/o   114%     75%       46%         42%
1994   100%     99%      90%       61%         13%
1995   100%     98%      100%/o    79%        140/%2
l Collection data ecludes government billing and collection. The State Government (LASG) follows a
non-standard approach to providing recurrent subvention to LSWC. It was reported that the billed
amount is supposed to equal consumption by state agencies; LASG in tun procures chemicals on LSWC's
behalf. This method is neither transparent, nor does it support LSWC's attempt at efficient management.
2 Co11cions started an upward trend after 1995 to 22% and 30% in 1996 and 1997 respectively, as a
result of the untiring work of LSWC staff under a new Commercial Manager.



5
11.   The financial goals of the project could have been more modest given the very weak
starting point of LSWC which then operated as a State Government department subject to civil
service rules and regulations. Its experience in direct billing was very limited. There was the
prevailing sentiment of the Lagos population that water was free, and no attempt was explicitly
made in the SAR to address the need for continuous customer education. At appraisal, only about
10% of production was billed based on a negotiated flat rate charges to about 800 major
consumers (out of a potential of 83,000 direct consumer connections estimated at the time).
Financial viability would have required sizeable annual tariff increases, a full metering program in
conjunction with a comprehensive and well maintained customer register. Even though substantial
increases were granted in 1986, 1988 and again in 1995, it was unrealistic to expect that these
increases could have led to improved cash generation while water supply continued to be
intermittent, metering was spotty3, and commercial management (customer enumeration, billing and
collection) was very weak, highly centralized and not customer oriented.
12.   The project was however able to accomplish the following in partial fulfillment of its
financial and commercial objectives: project records have been well kept and audited annually;
accounting records are now partly computerized; accounting staff have received traming though
LSWC continues to lose trained staff to the pnvate sector where salaries are up to 25 times
greater, which makes it difficult to sustain improvements in accounting; LSWC has made progress
in rationalizing its revenue base; revenue collection is decentralized through banks with satisfactory
controls; a pilot metering program formed the basis for a tariff study. Assets were revalued in
1995; an asset register is in place.
13.   The commercial department was streamlined to help it focus on its objectives. As a result,
bills are being produced quarterly and delivered on time to live customers. Customer concerns
could now be attended to on a timely basis with the splitting of the Commercial department into
Sales and Customer Services Divisions and establishment of area and zonal offices. A Credit
Management Section has been created to focus on the collection of large accounts. A firm has
been subcontracted for revenue collection. Training is continuous. LSWC is now on the right
track but still has a long way to reach standard accounting and commercial management practices
and hence financial viability.
14.   A twinning arrangement was implemented with Northwest Water International (NWWI)
which helped to bring about positive improvements in management, finance and accounting,
commercial management and operations. NWWI was engaged in October 1993, almost three years
later than anticipated due largely to delays in LWSC's bureaucratic decision-taking. Their TOR
mentioned 365 manmonths, but the actual contract was curtailed to about 240 manmonths for
budgetary reasons. NWWI terminated in December 1997, though the major thrust of their work
was concluded about end-1996. NWWI-LSWC relationship was productive; the support of
NWWI inspired improvements; and the opportunity for LSWC staff to visit the NWWI
headquarters in the UK boosted morale and staff productivity. However, the improvements
brought about by the twinning arrangement proved not to be fully sustainable, and in hindsight, it
might have been better to introduce more sustainable incentives which the private sector could
provide.
3Though metering was given a boost just prior to loan effectiveness, and deliberate efforts were made to
install about 100 meters per month, the lack of a meter workshop, inadequate spare parts, technical
problems with water operators and faulty record-keeping made it difficult to maintain the meter
installation momnentum.



6
15.   The econonic objectives have been partially met. The economic gains of the project are
tied to achieving the physical and financial goals. Additional water has been introduced into the
system. Implementation of the leakage detection program has helped to reduce physical losses and
illegal connections (thus providing additional water to consumers), though the predetermined
targets have not been achieved. Demand for water far exceeds the available supply. Using the
value of water as determined by a recent Willingness to Pay study,4 the ex post ERR for the
project has been calculated at 10%, which compares well with the SAR estimate of 13%. The
sensitivity analysis indicates the range to be 7 to 10% due largely to the continued scarcity of water
which has driven up its value.
16.   The physical objectives have been partially achieved. Tables 12 and 13 show physical
targets against actual and the planned and actual implementation time for key activities. The
contracts for expansion of the water works (Adiyan) and the laying of additional primary trunk
mains which were awarded in 1982 and 19835 respectively were executed satisfactorily, but with
significant cost overruns arising from cost escalation, contractors' claims and additional works.
These were financed from the French commercial banks. The timely completion of these contracts
in mid-1991 enabled LSWC to increase daily supply to Lagos metropolis by about 280,000 -/day.
The prnmary trunk mains have eased the water supply distribution constraint with consequent
increase in supply pressures. However, due to finding constraints, a vital trunk main (Trunk Main
E) for supply to Victoria Island was not executed. Victoria Island therefore remains handicapped
even after the subsequent improvement in its distribution.
17.   For the design, management and operation of the distribution system, Lagos was divided
into 21 Planning Control Units (PCUs) while additional 5 PCUs were identified in the surrounding
areas. The total network length was curtailed to 800 km of secondary and tertiary pipelines, and
connections were reduced to 72,000 in order to stay within the SAR budget. Bid prices eventually
turned out lower than estimated, but only 640 km of pipelines were executed (three major contract
packages) due partly to the cancellation of the loan from the European Investment Bank (see para.
26 below).
18.   Partly as a result of the reduction in the new distribution system, the target for house
connections was not met. A total of 42,000 connections were done under the project, many of
which were replacement of existing long service connections. The connections were provided
under the distribution contracts up to the property lines; and final connections were made to
consumer premises by LSWC after payment of a lumpsum fee of N 5,000 by the consumer. Few
consumers have so far met this requirement and less than 50% of the connections have been
finalized.
19.   Existing connections as recorded at SAR (1985) were 83,000 (75,000 domestic and 8,000
industrial). Water supply coverage through connections was 38% of 1985 population. On the
basis of the 1991 census figures and the masterplan studies under the project, the 1985 population
4Urban Servioces Improvement: A Willingness to Pay Study. December 1997. Stoveland Consult for
Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning, Lagos.
5 While the contracts were awarded in 1982 and 1983 the funds were not immediately available due
largely to political uncertainties. Nigeria's creditworthiness was a serious issue between 1983 and 1986
until the structna adjustment program was initiated in 1986. The involvement of the World Bank
encuraged the French commercial banks to conclude the Loan Agreement with LASG.



7
has been re-est d at 4.7 million (against SAR estimate of 6.3 million), of which 1.8 million
were served through direct connections. Presently, with about 30,000 new connections, additional
population served by the project through connections is only about 600,000. Metering of
connections also fetl short of SAR expectations - only about 5,400 meters installed compared with
65,000 (SAR estimate).
20.   Rehabilitation of the existing transmission and distribution systems and house connections
were not implemented as envisaged in the SAR. A rehabilitation needs study of the existing
distribution system in four PCUs was undertaken from September 1993 to June 1996. The scope
of works included investigation of existing pipelines, reservoirs and the remodelling of Lagos
distribution system. Due to funding constraint and evaluation of priorities at the time of the study,
some of the key recommendations were not implemented.
21.   Rehabilitation of the Ishasi water works was completed satisfactorily and production at
design capacity (18 MLD) is now feasible. Rehabilitation of three of the seven mini water works
was undertaken under another project.(NWRP). The four mini waterworks (capacity 43,200
MLD) not yet rehabilitated were not operational in 1997, an indication of the state of these
waterworks. Production from Iju waterworks (the second largest) declined from 74% of capacity
in 1985 to 38% in 1993, and 17% in 1994. Its rehabilitation was consequently undertaken under
the project at a cost of $24 million (excluding engineering services). With the completion of a new
anti salinity weir on the Ogun river (1996) all source works based on this river (Adiyan and Iju)
now operate without risk of saline water intrusion.
22.   There was steady decline in capacity utilization at the water works (Adiyan, Iju, Ishasi and
the seven minis) from 79% in 1985 to 57% in 1997. If account is taken of expected increase in
production at Iju in early 1998, overall capacity utilization may be as low as 66%. Such low level
of capacity utilization is unacceptable, and action should be taken to set it up to at least 80%. As
agreed in the operational plan, LSWC should take early action on the repair of standby generators
at Adiyan, supply of spare parts for maintenance, and retaining of an external workshop for
maintenance of heavy duty equipment. Further training of maintenance staff is required especially
as relevant training of such staff was omitted under some of the source works contracts.
23.   The objective of improving the administrative efficiency of LSWC through the provision
and rehabilitation of administrative infiastructure and equipment has been partially met.
Headquarters staff have been relocated into a new building. Adequate accommodation has been
provided for about 70% of the Area Offices and 30% of the zonal offices to facilitate
implementation of LSWC's decentralization policy. Vehicles, equipment and tools were supplied
and have facilitated operations.
24.   Unaccounted-for-water (u-f-w) due to physical losses was estimated at 60% of supply in a
pilot study carried out on the distribution system, much higher than the SAR estimate of 30% (para
42). Up to 60% of the leaks occurred in service connection pipes due to poor quality of the
connection materials, long lengths and poor workmanship. The use of special equipment for leak
location was not a priority as many leaks were visible. Consequently, the project's focus on
passive leak detection methods to prune down the high level of loss in the system was appropriate
in the short term. These procedures were easy to implement and have now been institutionalized.
LSWC estimates that physical losses (including illegal connections) have been reduced to 35%, but
the achievement needs to be confinned through another detailed pilot area study. To achieve the
objective of reducing this figure to 25% of production, replacement of all old consumer connectons



8
would be required and further efforts to locate illegal connections. District meters (procured under
the project) should also be instaled and the leak detection and repair campaign intensified.
25.   Preventive maintenance was initiated in two of the water works (Adiyan and Ishasi).
Though the program is stil functional, corective maintenance is delayed due to lack of spare
parts. Flow metering and chlorinating equipment, and one ofthe standby power generating sets at
the Adiyan waterworks now requires rehabilitation due partly to the perilous state of the regular
power supply in the country. Maintenance of heavy duty and special equipment would have been
more effective and efficient if done through outsourcing.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.   Factors Not Subject to Govermnent Control: Cancellation of EIB Loan ($47.4 m). The
cancellation of the EIB loan in early 1992 had considerable impact on the targeted outputs as well
as on the realization of project objectives. The EIB loan was intended to finance one of the four
distribution contracts (about 200 kIn) and the design and construction of the anti salinity weir. By
early 1992, the distribution contract had not been awarded, and appointment of a consultant for the
design of the anti salinity weir was just finalized. However, EB felt that delays in project startup
would result in its components not being completed by the original Loan Closing Date of
September 1993 and was concerned with the lack of progress in establishing LSWC on sound
financial and commercial footing. It therefore cancelled. The EIB components being very critical
to the project were subsequently financed by reallocation from the IBRD loan, but overall project
outputs were curtailed. It is quite conceivable that EIB would not have cancelled if the Borrower
had been able to progress as originally planned.
27.   Factors Subject to Government Control: Delays in Contract Implementation and Inmort
and Port Clearance. Completion of several contracts were delayed by 150 to 200% of the intended
completion periods due partly to the following factors: (i) the time required for revalidation of Duty
Exemption Certificates following changes of key government officials; (ii) cumbersome procedures
for clearance of goods from the ports; and (iii) changes in pre-shipment inspection agents resulting
in delays in the issuance of the Import Duty Report. A few contractors exhibited lack of
understanding of the procedures for opening and confirning Letters of Credit. Due to the above
difficulties the assumption that imported pipes and materials for the distribution contracts could be
delivered to site within 6 months of start of contract was not realized. The political unrest in mid-
1994 (folowing the annulled Presidential election of 1993) delayed implementation of two of the
major contracts.
28.   Scarcity of Bitumen. Bitumen was required by the contractors on distribution system
contracts for the re-istatement of roads damaged during pipeline construction. Bitumen was
produced locally at one of the four refineries in Nigeria (Kaduna Refinery) and sold at a subsidized
and controlled price. Bitumen became unavailable when the Kaduna Refinery was damaged in a
fire incident and thereafter supply was rationed which made it difficult for the contractors to
complete roadworks under their contracts. LASG Direct Labor Group with better access to
bitumnu supply has recently taken over the outstanding roadworks under all contracts, and the
exercise is still ongoing.
29.   Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control: Start-up Delay. There was a closing
delay of 21 months due mainly to delayed start-up. The fulfillment of the conditions of
effectiveness took longer tian planned (13 months) after Loan signature on March 31, 1989. The



9
design of the distribution system (which commenced prior to loan approval, financed mainly by a
grant from CIDA), was completed in May 1991 (18 months after the SAR expectation). Also, the
first of four contract packages for distribution system expansion was awarded in January 1993 due
to delay in the preparation of the bidding documents and protracted discussion over the packaging
ofthe supply and works components ofthe contracts. From 1990 to 1991, LSWC was unable to
keep to agreed action plan for project implementation and, in late 1991, monthly meetings between
LSWC management and Bank officials were introduced to assist in keeping implementation on
course. LSWC's inexperience in Bank's procurement procedures and in projects financed by
multilateral institutions as well as inefficient and centralized management were largely responsible
for the start-up delays. The pace of implementation improved in 1992 after management changes
inLSWC.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   This project was planned as the first of a three-phased expansion program to meet present
and future demand. The other phases of the program under which production capacity would have
increased again in 1995 and 2000 did not commence. Water distribution which is presently
skeletal in some PCUs was expected to be extended during subsequent stages of the expansion
program. Several other PCUs have no distribution system. To be sustainable, continued
expansion of the distribution network, including replacement of old leaking connections, is urgently
required.
31.   The standard of technical operation in LSWC has improved with support from NWWI
(para. 14). U-f-w has been reduced from about 60% to probably 35 to 40% of production.
However, a lower level of leakage may not be achieved and sustained until older consumer
connections are replaced with more durable pipes; district meters installed; and more intensive
program of leak detection and repair embarked upon. Implementation of these measures is
dependent on the availability of resources in the recurrent budget. Additionally, preventive
maintenance programs initiated in some of the key water works need to be continued, but this
depends again on the revenue generation capacity of the LSWC.
32.   Metering of consumers is not yet extensive and should be expanded to facilitate the
reduction of administrative losses. A large number of standpipes has been installed, and
privatization of the standpipes is now being piloted. Privatization of all standpipes needs to be
accelerated to reduce administrative losses, and ensure care and maintenance of the facilities.
33.   To summarize, sustainability of the project under current operating conditions in unlikely.
It would be very difficult for LSWC in its present operating environment to internally generate
enough cash in the short to medium term to cover its operations and maintenance, let alone provide
for depreciation based on revalued assets and contribute to its expansion. Salary levels which are
less than 10% of salaries earned by comparator utilities in francophone West African countries are
a major disincentive to staff productivity. Major transformation in LSWC's operating environment
is mandatory. Sustainability is probable if timely steps are taken to privatize operations, where
feasible, and to continue the second and third phases of the 15-year investment program envisaged
in the SAR.



10
F. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
34.   At appraisal, the Bank's assessment of LSWC's ability to achieve financial viability
within the timeframe of the project was unrealistic, underestimating the difficulties involved in
implementing major change within a very fragile institutional context. Additional analysis might
have led to recommending a gradual timebound set of measures, possibly with some degree of
conditionality. The Bank's assumption that huge annual tariff increases to meet financial
objectives could be effectively met, was thwarted by the poor quality of the service provided and
the weak billing and collection systems.
35.   Regarding supervision, the Bank's performance was satisfactory; the composition of
supervision teams, the mix of skills seemed to be adequate. There was continuity in Bank's
supervision staff which helped to foster trust and willingness on the part of LSWC to, at times,
take very difficult decisions within a very challenging operating context. In hindsight, the Bank
could have established new formal financial targets at the time of EIB cancellation (para 26) when
the physical components were restructured. This was not done, but the supervision team rated the
project against very modest incremental annual targets. The project was thus rated as satisfactory
due to LSWC's proactivity in attaining the revised targets for revenue generation and other areas
of operations. Some improvements were made, but they appeared to have ceased towards the end
of the project; although further actions were being considered, their effectiveness has not been
demonstrated.
G. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
36.   Performance of the Borrower is rated unsatisfactory for the following reasons: (i)
unplanned changes in LASG senior officials made it difficult to foster consistent policy dialogue;
(ii) lack of commitment to the project's objectives; (iii) failure to maintain LSWC's autonomy in
accordance with the LSWC edict and as covenanted, which basically strangled LSWC's ability to
operate as a business (i.e. set and achieve financial and performance targets), including its ability
to improve employment incentives (para. 33). LASG could have assisted the project if it had held
LSWC management responsible for some agreed annual operational performance targets and set
up a mechanism for monitoring performance and taking action on the basis of its findings.
37.   Performance of LSWC, the executing agency has been rated fairly satisfactory.
Management of the project in its early stage was difficult. With the change in General Manager
(who remained with the project for 4 years), and continued guidance and dialogue with Bank
missions, LSWC was able to focus on introducing many of the required changes in a systematic
way. It made effective use of the twinning arrangement in the areas of engineering, commercial,
finance and accounting. The corporation has been transformed from being a highly centralized,
bureaucratic organization to one that is restructured and decentralized with a corporate focus and
responsiveness to its customers. LSWC's operating standards have been upgraded, but there is
much room for improvement.
H. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT'S OUTCOME
38.   The project's outcome is rated unsatisfactory. The project's physical objectives called for
more than doubling of production capacity to serve additional population. Capacity was doubled
from 301,500 `3/day in 1985 to 621,500 3/day in 1998, but capacity utilization at the various



11
production works is currently low (57-66%) which reduces the population with effective coverage.
In addition, the distribution did not increase commensurate with production. Metering of
consumers is unsatisfactory. Service through standpipes was expected to increase, but standpipe
coverage is uncertain due to poor record-keeping. The project's financial objectives required
LASG to eliminate recurrent subvention support to LSWC as the latter improved its commercial
management and revenue generation. Cash generation has improved, but is very far from SAR
expectation, thus LASG recurrent subvention could not be eliminated. The project was also
intended to improve the economic efficiency of water provision through implementation of an
economic tariff, cost effective production of water via improved maintenance, increase in total
supply through additional production facilities and reduction in physical losses, and enhanced
economic benefits through increased distribution to areas with the greatest water scarcity. The
unexpectedly low capacity utilization and relatively high leakage levels have caused an attrition in
the projected economic benefits.
39.   From another perspective, LSWC would have been in a far worse position without this
project from a financial, commercial and technical point of view. The project was instrumental in
effectively channelling technical expertise into the corporation through the twinning arrangement
with NWWI. This had the beneficial effect of (a) exposing staff to state-of-the-art techniques in
water supply management; (b) raising expectations of their own potential at LSWC. Even though
phase II of the investment program, of which this project was a part, did not commence as
envisaged at appraisal, capacity has been strengthened within the institution and preparations are
well advanced for future development of the sector with private participation. LSWC would not
have been able to take this initiative without the exposure provided by the project.
1. FUTURE OPERATION
40.   A plan for the project's future operation has been prepared and attached to the Aide
Memoire of the Completion mission. The plan includes appropriate technical, financial,
commercial and institutional arrangements to ensure effective project operation.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience
41.   Pressures to come up with estimates, at the time of project appraisal, on indicators such as
u-f-w, number of existing connections, number of billed consumers etc lead to weak bases from
which to forecast expectations; the result is a wide gap between forecast and actual outcome.
Forecasts which are continually updated during implementation are a much more useful measure of
development impact.
42.   Expectations for project startup should be carefully examined in line with an implementing
agency's prior experience with Bank projects (particularly with procurement rules), prior
experience of similar agencies within a given country, and the types of management system on the
ground i.e. whether highly centralized and lethargic or effectively decentralized which might form
the basis for more realistic expectations. Realistic startup dates could then be applied.
43.   During implementation, many consumers were unable to make the initial lumpsum deposit
for household connections and this delayed the take-up rate. The connection policy should be
established upfront, requirements should be assessed realistically and issues dealt with accordingly.



12
Sustainability
44.   Though an improved water supply has been provided with relative improvement m
institutional and operational capacity, many weaknesses continue within LSWC which would limit
its ability to sustain project investments. Sustainability is therefore unlikely. Significant resources
are required for continuation of the commercial and financial management improvements, further
expansion, continuation of the u-f-w reduction and metering programs, as well as for the
maintenance of the facilities provided. LSWC's cash flows cannot sustain even the required
recurrent expenditures. These constraints are difficult to address permanently within LSWC's
existing operating environment of continued subvention, politicization of tariff approval, very low
staff salaries, and unplanned staff changes at the senior management level. LSWC and senior state
management have recognized the constraints, and have agreed to seek private sector participation
for further investments and operations. LSWC is fairly advanced in preparing bid documents for
privatizing two of its systems (Lekli and Ikeja). Additionally, a contract has been signed for
preparation of a coherent set of recommendations for the development of the sector in its entirety
utilizing the private sector to as great an extent as possible. These are encouraging initiatives.
Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector
45.   The main lessons learned from this operation are as follows:
(a)    Transformation of a public corporation into a financially viable one is a very
gradual process which cannot be achieved in one project unless major reform
involving private participation occurs. The barriers to success include civil
service culture, uncompetitive salaries, inexperienced management, and
government's unwillingness to grant autonomy.
(b)    The timeframe envisioned for a project's institutional goals must be realistically
matched with existing capacity. LSWC's development plan was probably too
short or the plan itself was too ambitious. A number of initiatives were
programmed to take place simultaneously which taxed the capacity of an
institution in change. Nevertheless, institutional development was a key
concern, and the overall institutional measures planned were individually sound.
(c)    The twinning arrangement made some progress and was probably a necessary
bridging mechanism given LSWC's very weak capacity at appraisal, but twinning
alone cannot achieve sustainable results, particularly with respect to staff
motivation and productivity.
(d)    Financial covenants need to be tailored to specific agency conditions. The fact
that the revenue covenant was complied with in some years even though the
outcome is unsatisfactory reflects on the poor design of the covenant (paras. 9 &
10).
(e)    Close attention needs to be given to consumer connections and customer
management in project design and implementation. Replacement of most of the
existing poor quality consumer connections in Lagos was probably a more cost
effective approach to u-f-w reduction especially physical losses (of which about



13
60% was lost through consumer cormections). Such new connections could have
been designed to facilitate identification of connections with overdue accounts. In
this way, technical operations and revenue generation could have been effectively
linked.



14
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Studies Included in Project
Table 6A: Project Costs
Table 6B: Project Financing
Table 7:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 8:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11: Financial & Operating Indicators
Table 12: Targeted and Achieved Outputs
Table 13: Implementation Schedule



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives          Substantialtial ial               Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies                      E0                                                   0
Financial Objectives                 [J               [                   J                0
Institutional Development     0                       [3 0 
Physical Objectives                   0               (                 (J                  J
Poverty Reduction                    E]               E                  0 
Gender Issues                        [J               [                 [ 
Other Social Objectives                l                                                  [ ]
Environmental Objectives              n                o                E                  0
Public Sector Management             [                [                (3                  0
Private Sector Development           [                 5                 Q                 0
Other (specify)                       5                5                 Q                 E
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability                Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
(/)                       (V)                         (1)
C. Bank Performance                      satisfactory           Satisfactory                 Deficient
(/)                       (/1)                       (1)
Identification                      o                           0                          El
Preparation Assistance               0                          0                          0
Appraisal                           E                          E                           0
Supervision                         E                           0                          E
D. Borrower Performance                         satisfactory     Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)             (/)              (/)
Preparation                                    E                0               E
Implementation                                 El               E                0
Covenant Compliance                            E                E                0
Operation (if applicable)                      E                E
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
El)             El/               0/                 El/



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                       Purpose                        Year of         Status
l                                  |~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ approval |
Preceding operadons
Ln. 2528-UNI              (i) Provide adequate and reliable supplies of safe
water to Maiduguri from the Alau Dam and
Borno State Water Supply    Reservoir                                        1985       closed 6/30/95
Project
(ii) strengthen BSWB to ensure orderly future
development and expansion of the State's water
supply program and its efficient operation and help it
towards financial viability, and
(iii) provide the basis for an effective sanitation
program in Maiduguri through the proposed studies.
Ln. 1711-UNI              Improve the supply of drinking water in the city of
Kaduna by increasing quantity, improving quality and
Kaduna Water Supply       elimmate shortages caused by production constaints  1979      closed 12/3188
Project                   to reach at least 85% of the population and provide all
connected consumers with uninterrupted supply of
safe water.
Ln. 2036-UNI              Enhance living conditions in Anamnbra State by
Anambra Water Supply     improving water supply, solid waste collection and
Anambra Water Supply      disposal, urban infrastructure and health education.  1981    closed 7/31/91
Project                   Establish autonomous institutions with the necessary
human and financial resources to provide water and
sanitation on a fiancially sustainable basis.
Ln. 2620-'UNI             inprove solid waste disposal, improve storm drainage
for high density residential and industrial areas of
Lagos Solid Waste         MerpltnLgs1985                                                closed 9/30/93
Management Project        Metropolitan Lagos
FoUowing operations
Ln. 3322-UNI              Provide limited funds to each state for urgently
Nat'lReha. Proneeded rehabilitation works and equipment. Assist
Nat'l Rehab. Project      institutional strengthening by improving workshop  1991       Closig date
and laboratory facilities, billing and collection,            6/30/99
manpower audit and training needs analysis,
providing vehicles for maintenance.
Cr. 2372-UlN              Improve both the quantity and reliability of water
State Water I Project     supply to the more important towns in the two states,  1992   Closing date
help in commercializing the water boards.                     9/30/99
Cr. 2517-UNI              Reduce flooding of dwellings, business and tmnsport
Lagos Drainage and  corridors, reduce deterioration of roads, elimination of
Lagos Drainage and        unsightly accumulations of garbage in drains and   1993       Closng date
Sanitation Project       reduce health hazards due to flooding by sewage.               6/30/98



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                             6/1979
Preparation                                       _                    5/21/1984
Appraisal                                          5/1986              5/1986
Negotiations                                              _            11/18-21/1986
Board Presentation                                                     7/28/1988
Signing                                                                3/31/1989
Effectiveness                                      9/30/1989           4/20/1990
Project Completion                                 8/30/1995           6/30/98
Loan Closing                                       3/31/1996           12/31/1997
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
................. E. .   . ...  E........ - . .........  . ...  ........   . ..  ...  . ..........   ....................
Appra llnimae                  Aua                     ctaipecn
1989                   23.40           -0.00                                   0.0
1990                   51.20                       2.08                        4.0
1991                   74.60                       3.68                        4.9
1992                  100.60                       6.02                        6.0
1993                  129.10                      20.03                        15.5
1994                  154.30            =64.72                                 41.9
1995                  169.10                      110.68                       65.5
1996                  173.20                      140.94                       81.4
1997                  173.20                      152.67                       88.1
1998                  173.20                      173.20                      100.0



18
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                        at Appraisal/Redefined            Status                        Impact of Study
1. Hydrological Studies of Lagos   To assess ground water potential in Lagos  Completed   hnproved management of ground water resources; provided data
State                                                                                for the review of the water supply development master plan
2. Owuru River Source Study   N/A                                        Completed  Infonnation obtained on additional resources to support the
expansion program
3. Otta Ikosi WTP Study and   N/A                                        Completed  -ditto-
Design
4. Osun River Source Study    N/A                                        Completed  -ditto-. The preparation of a concession arrangement for parts of
the south east of Lagos was based on the findings in the study.
5. Adiyan Phase 11 (Design of  N/A                                       Completed   used in the revision of the water supply master pla  and in
second phase water production                                                        planning for the expansion works. Ready for implementation
expasion)                                                                            when fmancing identified.
6. Review of Water Supply     N/A                                        Completed  updated cost estimates and phasing options.
Development Master Plan
7. Privatization of PCU-6 (Ikeja) -  N/A                                 Completed   Privatization options are still being developed. Study findings
Feasibility of PSP in the                                                            will assist in preparation of request for proposals.
management of the distribution
system
8. Water Pollution Control Study   A sanitation study was proposed to develop  Completed   Lead to preparation of phased program and designs for sewerage
strategy for dealing with increased waste water       in priority areas, under separate financing.
problems in the dry season resulting from the
project
9. Organization and Management  To outline and improve organization and  Completed   LSWC was reorganized according to recommendations in the
Study                         management structure for LSWC including                study report.
decentralization of management.
10. Hydraulic Analysis of     To outline water supply development options for   Completed   Provided framework for the phasing of the water supply
Distribution System           LSWC                                                   expansion, and the design of the trniks, secondary and tertiary
mains.



19
Table 6A: Project Costs
______________________________          Amraisal Estinate (US$M)            Actual/Latest Estimate(US5M)
SIN    Item                                Local      Forei n    Total       Local       Foreign       Total
1.      Water Suo&lv Ezpansion
)        AMivan Water Works                 9.8        131.1      140.9       35.3        117.7         153.0
)       Pri,marvMain-Contract4             9.3        62.8        72.1       39.6        84.2          123.8
C)     Add'l Primarv Mains                1-5        12.0       13.5        4.8         13.5          18.3
2       Rehabilitation Works                     _                           _
A)..  BPrimarv/Secondarv/TetiarvPines      451        26.2        30.7       0           0             0
b)      House Connections                  0.8        4.4        5.2         0           0             0
|c     _ Mini WaterWork,                   0.1        0.6        0.7         0           0             0
Anti-Salinit Weir                  0.5        5.4        5.9         5.1         4.3           9.4
e)     Ishasi                              1.5        0.1         1.6        1.1         3.8           4.9
j)      Offices Workshopg Stores           3.1        3.8         6.9        8.2         4.2           12.4
b)      Onerational Vehicles, and Plant     .7        1.7         2.4        0.3         5.2           5.5
gj    Metr(Production Distribution          04        7.5         7.9         0           1.2           1.2
d)                                         0._                               0  
4.      Istitutional Suonoit
a)      O&M Studies                        0.2        0.6        0.8         0           1.0           1.0
b)      llydraulic Analysis of Distribution  0.3      0.4         0.7        0           0.5           0.5
c)      Detailed Design of Secondarv and   1.1        3.2        4.3         0.4         4.0           4.4
dt.    Detailed Design of Add'l Primar=    0.1        0.2        0.3         0           0.1           0.1
ej      Constr./Snm (f) Secondar & Tertiar  1.5       7.8         9.3        6.5         21.7          28.2
fL      Technical Assistance               0.8        4.0         4.8        1.5         6.0           7.5
LI)     Other Studies                      0.3        0.7        1.0         2.8         10.2          13.0
h)    t Trainina                           0.1        17                     0       0.2       0       02
5       Proiect Preparation Fund                                                         1.7           1.7
TOTAL                              49.8      411.6       461.4       124.9      351.8          475.7
2(b) House Connections - Actuals included in l(d).
4(h) Training - Actuals included in 4(f)



20
Table 6B: Financing Arrangements
Financier          SAR Estimates (April 1988)     |            Actual Costs
Local   Foreign          Total       Local   Foreign          Total
Costs    Costs     Cost    ___   Costs    Costs         Cost       %
LASG                 23.8      48.8    72.6    15         12.8      25.9    38.7    10
Commercial                    164.8   164.8    36                  164.8   164.8   43
Banks (French)                                       _        _                  _
UNDP                  0.0       0.6      0.6                         0.6      0.6
CIDA                  0.0       3.2      3.2     1                   3.2      3.2    1
EIB                   4.7      42.7    47.4    10
IBRD                 20.2     153.0   173.2    38         20.2     153.0   173.3    46
Total                48.7     413.1   461.8               33.0    347.5   380.5



21
Table 7: Economic Costs and Benefits
Assumptions for ERR Recalculations
1.      Incremental capacity under the project is the sum of the capacity built within the project
plus the capacity attributed to plant rehabilitation under the project. Total incremental capacity is
assumed to come on-line in 1998.
2.       From  1998 onwards, production is rated at 80% of capacity, assuming repairs are made to
generators at Adiyan (para 22)..
3.      Physical losses remain constant at 25%.
4.       Incremental O&M  is proportional to incremental production until 1997. O&M  projections
for 1998 and beyond are based on the fixed costs of production (wages, repair, maintenance,
administration), and unit variable costs are based on actual expenditures for 1996.
5.      Incremental consumption is valued at the weighted average WTP of different consumers.6
80% of consumers have a WTP of N 41/m3 with 20% having a WTP of N 150/m3.
6.      Investment costs include both foreign and local components. Local costs are estimated at
15% of foreign costs.
7.      All Naira values are expressed in constant 1987 prices, using the CPI (base = 1987), and
converted to US dollars at the 1987 official exchange rate.
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993      1994     1995    1996    1997    1998 1999-
2026
System capacity (Mm3)         128.00  128.00  128.00  166.00  166.00   166.00   166.00   166.00  166.00  166.00   245.00  245.
fincreentl capac-ty (M3)                              117.00  117.00   117.00   117.00   117.00  117.00  117.00   147.00  147.
Wate produced (Mn3)            66.70   66.70   66.70   92.00  143.60   140.40   113.60   120.60  136.90  139.90   196.00  196.
1ncremental water produced      0.00,   0.00    0.00   67.50   93.60    93.60    93.60    93.60   93.60   93.60   117.60  117.6
Avap water lost                            I
Value of iner. water(1987P,M US S)  _                  34.41   47.72    47.72    47.72    47.72   47.72   47.72    59.96   59.96
knc.O&M (1987P, M USS)                                  4.62   11.90     8.71    12.83    14.64    9.55    9.96    11.51   11.51
Capital investent (1987P, M USS)  63.89   64.24   63.23   61.66    2.25    13.50    41.54    39.44   26.84   10.79    18.90
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rotal cost(1987P, M USS)       69.19   69.19   71.58   75.65   14.59    24.82    64.22    67.49   44.34   23.44    35.11   11.51
eBenefits                     -69.19  -69.19  -71.58  -41.24   33.13    22.90   -16.50   -19.77    3.38   24.28    24.85   48.4
~~~~~~~~IR. .. _
0/.O             - _-   __ _                        _     __                                _
6Based on the findings of a su*dy entitled Urban Services Improvement: Willingness to Pay Study,
December 1997.



22
Tuabb : Stats of Iegal Covenants
.. ..... ,..... .... ..... ... ..                                    -   ....    .. ..... ...  ...............   . .... . ..,, .................. ..
........................ ...................   - gr   .... ...... .... ..............   .... .... .... ............  .......
........................ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   .........    ..........  .....................................
3.01(a)      5             C                                             Enable LSWC and Lagos to    Ikere Gorge Dam comipleted
perfbnn obligations               to assure raw water
availability to LSWC
3.01(b)      3             C           06130/1990                        Relend funds to LASG under   Ageement signed 22 August
-  -- --------                                                                 First Subsidiary Loan              1989.
.  ...............    ..............  .  y    ...............  ..  N   ...............................  ................................. ..........................
2.01         3             C                                             Cau  LSWC to cay out the   Curently only m                 inorarrf s.
project and to provide finds,
___                              ~~~~~~~~~~~facilities, etc.
2.02         3             C           06/30/1989                        Relend proceeds to LSWC           In compliance
under Second Subsidiary Loan
AV-emett
2.05(i)      5             C           01/31/1987                        prepare plan for increased        Autonomny has varied with
autonomy of LSWC.                 changing state govermnents -
currently little autonomy.
2.05(ii)     5             CP                                            Carry out above plan as per    Currently LSWC has little
tinetable to be agreed with       autonony
BanuL
2.06(a)      2             C                                             Agree with Bank annually: (i)  LSWC finance continually
TariflE, (ii) Subvention + Debt discussed with Bank
Service Support to LSWC
2.06(b)      4             C                                             Pay quarterly in advance: (i)   No current arrears.
counterpart funds; (ii)
subvention + debt support.
2.07         5             C                                             Review annuaHly with Bank         OK
and LSWC the organization
staffing and training plans of
LSWC.
.. .. .. .. .. . ... . ..........       ..I .   ..   .. .. ..  ............   .   ...  ..  .    ...   .   .. . .  .. . . . . .. . . . . . ..    ......   .........:::  , . ..  .  .  ....  .
......T     ...                                                                         :   .   .    ...  .  .
2.01(a)      2             CP                                            Provide funds, facilities, etc.;   Partial com epliac
include. tariff action.
2.02(b)      5             C                                             Maintain Project Unit with
_               _                         _Engi [Engineeg Diredorate.
2.02(c)      5             c                                             Assign staffto wodcwith
consultants and contractos
2.01(d)      5             C                                             LSWCto discuss                    OK
organization, staffing and
taining plan with Bank and
LASG.
2.03         4             C                                             Establish and matain
countpart fund at
commercial bank
2.05          5            C                                             LSWCtopaform  obligations
under second Sub-Loan
_                        ____ A gree mpee_                                                                                         _          _
3.01         5             C                                             Adequate staffing
3.04         5             CP                                            2% of persmonnel budgetfor        Condrained by inadequae
training recurrent expenes.       cash flows
3.05         5             C                                             Recurrent expenes: (i) submit
conunerimal development plan



23
....anmt          Sadie.    Covenant   ..r ,ent  ,,~ginid                  hvi,ad          ,        eseripi. . '..   ........
.                                                                            . ... . ... . .  .   ,., .. , , ,.,, , .. j w ...... . ... .... ...... fiS .... ....................... .... . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . . .... . . . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . .. . .
type  jati.  Izlfi)Immst  Mlillmett           cevc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .........
.....~~~~~~~~~~~~............  .............   .....  .........................................    ........ ..... .................. .... . ............... ......  . ....................... .......    ..........    ............
3.05(ii)     5             C                                             (ii) implement plan in acclw.
3.06         5             C           02/28/1987                        (i) Prepar inecrnal scheme of
delegation in LSWC
3.06(ii)     5             C                                             (ii) implement iternal scheme  Internal delegation has varied
of delegations per agreed         with changing autonomy of
timetable.                        LSWC depending on state
administration.
4.01(a)       1            CP           12/31/1929                       Mainain adequate accounts
and records.
4.01(b)       1            CD                                            Prepare and submit audited
amwa account.
4.02          1            CD                                            SOEs/Special Account records
and audits
4.03(a)      2             NC                                            For FY91 generate revenues =
100% of cash operating
expenses.
4.03(b)      2             NC                                            For FY95 generate revenues    Curently revenue exceeds
equal to cash operating           cash operating expenses.
expenses plus 100% of             However, collection averned
depreciation or debt service,    only 22% during the period
whichever is higher.              1994 to 1997. ISWC is
workingto improve billing
and collection to a satisfactory
leveL
4.03(c)      2             C                                             Review budget and fuL
performance with Bank for
______ ____  ____  _____    _achieving targets.
4.04         2             C                                             Submit Cap. Inv. Prog. before
_  Ifinalrzation.
4.05         2             C                                             Net revenues to be 1.5 times    No known new debL
debt service.
Covenant types:
1.  =   Accounts/audits                                                   8.  = Indigenous people
2.  =   Financial performancrevenue generation from                       9.  = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                                   10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3.  =   Flow and utilization of project fiunds                           11.  =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4.  =   Countapart fiuxding                                                       allocation
5.  =   Management aspects ofthe project or executing                    12.  =  Sectoral or cross-secora policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                                   action
6.  =   Environmental covenants                                          13.  =  Other
7.  =   Involuntary resettlement
S.  Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



24
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned             Revised            Actual
Stage of Project Cycle           PaeRidAu
Weeks      US$         Weeks    US$    Staff    US$
(000)                (000)  Weeks   (000)
Preparation to Appraisal            NA         NA         NA       NA      112.8    131.6
Appraisal-Board                     NA         NA         NA       NA       70.3     153.8
Negotiations through Board Approval  NA        NA         NA       NA       29.9      57.1
Supervision                           62.7      109.0       51.0   99.6   192.2    378.0
Completion                            14.0      18.4       14.0   18.4    14.0       18.4
TOTAL                                76.7      127.4       65.0  118.0   419.2    738.9
Source:MIS



25
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Number               Sp_cied        Impnetation      Development
Stage of    Montht     of    Days in      Staff Skills      Status         Objectives      Types of
Projed Cycle    Year   Persons    Field     Repened_                                         Problems
Preearalion      6/79L....          3         C          _
Idification       j8      4                   F 36E            __                              __3__ 4  36  _A
P.on             6184     6         39        FA SE TS C
Prenartion       2        6         25        FASER OA
Ppra-on          518      5         15        FADDC.SEK OA
prearaion       j9185     2         12       rDDC SE
Paisal      ~~11 05    4    _ 49           AE OA, C
Preqparaion       JL~   j                                      ____1186  2  10  FA_SE 
Prenahation     .218L.....~26  2    _   27    TS C
____          _  3/86     5         30        DDC SE, FA, C
isal        ~~~5/86   4         66        DGSE. FA- C_
Pre-Neaoion    710/86    4          28        SP FA PS
Subeomion 1      7/99     2         7         UE* FA                 2                          AM CM F. P.
Suerdision 2     10/89    2         14        PFA SSE                2               1          AM. CM. F
Sunpvision 3      Li90    2         6              SSE                               1          AM, M P VF
Supervion 4               I                                   _ 8SEI                            PW. CM. F
SuND5ision 5     10190          2    7        PSE, PFA        _                      2          AM. M PW. CM. CF
Sunerviuion 6  r3191    1           9        T9 TPET                 3_3_ FSM. P.CM
Sunvison 7       7 l9         1    4        |_PSE7                                              P. F. CM
t &neran 8  _=I,9l  r 3  T 2      T SE, SE, 00                                        No Form 590
Suervisio 9       129    2*1                  SE, FAP
&si0dm  10                3         2.  * '   SSE, FA,SFA                                       P
Supavision 11    6/92     1                                                                     Limited upervision mission - no
_____________                          ____________                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Form    590
Supervision 12   9/92     4         20        SSE,CSECE,             3               3          AM,C,C, F, CF
CFA
Suevision 13     11192    1                                                                    Limited Supervision Mission - no
_____________                          ____________                     ~~~~~~~~~Form   590
Supervis.on  4   3/93     3                   SSE, SE, PS
Supervison 15    6193     2                   SSE,FA
Supervision 17   9/93     2         4         SSE, SE                2               2          CM, F
Supervision l8   11/93    4                   SSE, SE. C             2               2         CM C, F
(Eup), C (PA)
Subeavion 19     3/94     I                   SSE                                              No Form 590
Sunuv3nion 20    6/94     3         21        SSE, SE, POO           2_              2 
Supervision21    11/94    6                   SSE, C (4 C                                      No Form 590
(SE). SPA, SE,
Sunervision 22   2/95               _    _    SSE        =                                      AF. CF
_upevis  23      6195     3         8         SSE, A, SE             S               S
SuionM 24        9/95     3         7SSE, FA, SE                     S                         F CM
Supervision 25   2/96     2         4         SSE,FA                 S               S         F, CM
SunerVqWion 26   9196     3         7         SSE, FA, SE            S               S          AM
Surervi:ion 27   6197     1         6         SSE                    S               S
Comdetion    2198     4         5         SSE, SE, PA, EC       S



26
Specialization:                                                          Tvoes of Problems:
C            =          Consultant                                       AF              =          Availability ofFunds
DDC          =          Dqxuy Division Chief                             AM       .                  Agency Managment
EC           =          Economist                                        C                          Covenant Compliance
FA           =          Fiancial Analyst                                CF               =          Counterpat Funds
OA           =          Operations Assistant                             CM                          Commercial Management
00           =          Operations Officer                              F                =          Financial
PFA          =          Principal Finial Analyst                         M               =           Prc Management
PS           =          Proueme  Specialist                              P                           Physica Wofks
PSE          =          Private Sector Engineer                          PW=                         Procurement
SE           =          Sanitay Engineer
SSE          =          Sr. Sanitary Engineer
TS                      Traning Specialist
UE           =          Urban Engineer



27
Table 11: Financial and Operational Indicators
1990       1991        1992        1993        1994         1995        1996
Population (million)                5.7        5.9         6.2         6.4         6.7          7.0         7.3
% Served                          20%         300Yo       30%        30%          32%          33%         35%
No. of Systems                      16          17          17         17           17          17           17
Functioning Systems                 15          17          16         16           16          15           15
System Capacity (Mm3)              128        245         245         245         245          245          245
WaterProduced (Mm3)               66.7        92.0       143.6       140.4       113.6        120.6       136.9
Water Sold (Mm3)                  26.7        36.8        57.4        70.2        59.1         66.3        82.1
Unaccounted for Water (%) \1      60%         60%         60%        50%          48%          45%         40%
Average Tariff \2                 0.61        0.72        4.04        3.20        7.20        17.57        17.06
Connection Fee \3                  n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        5,000       5,000
No. of Service Connections \4      n.a.        n.a.       n.a.      69,124      70,474       97,186      100,000
No. of Metered Connections \5      n.a.        n.a.       n.a.        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.       4,000
No. of Standpipes \6
Billings (Naira OOOs) \7, \8
- domestic                           -        204      76,272           -      172,566     522,716      635,614
- industrial/commercial          8,736      22,097    115,242           -      183,411     549,704      669,715
- govermnent - federal               -           -          -           -      34,246       57,827       53,375
- state (direct)          -           -           -          -            -            -       3,995
- local                7,417      4,160      40,633          -       35,212       35,213      38,342
Total govemnment                7,417       4,160     40,633           -      69,458       93,040       95,712
Total Billings                   16,153     26,461     232,147     224,467     425,435    1,165,460    1,401,041
Other revenue                     5,721      2,756      10,225     166,932     210,209      153,595      34,049
Total revenue                   21,874      29,217     242,372     391,399     635,644    1,319,055    1,435,090
Otier state (indirect) \9        50,199     29,946     152,229     140,960      80,982      312,116     582,970
Coledions (Naira OOs)
- domestic                        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.     13,830       17,449      38,361       96,701
- commercial                      n.a.        n.a.        n.a.     20,452       14,781      49,410      118,190
- government - federal            n.a.        n.a.        n.a.    120,214       7,582       47,917       38,582
- state                 n.a.        n.a.       n.a.         12           86            -           -
- local                 n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       3,300      25,119       19,497      41,575
- connections                     n.a.        n.a.        n.a.      3,898           -        4,070       15,589
- miscellaneous                   n.a.        n.a.        n.a.      3,340      17,561       23,224        7,247
Total Collections                  n.a         n.a.       n.a.    165,047       82,578      182,478     317,884
State Indirect                              29,946     152,229     140,960      80,982      312,116     582,970
Salaries/Benefits                9,595      12,597      18,059     32,588       37,419       56,196      56,097
Purchase of Raw Water                -           -                      -        1,500        2,097       5,296
Power/Fuel - paid by State      22,689       1,070      25,405      25,855       4,392            -      42,000
- paid by Corp              -      15,082           -       8,380      43,703       90,991      69,697
- Total                 22,689     16,152      25,405      34,235      48,095       90,991      111,697
Chemicals - paid by State       47,237      29,946     113,017     115,448      60,982      208,116     364,926
- paid by Corp               -       1,918          -           -      109,827      67,321       32,943
-Total                  47,237      31,864     113,017    115,448      170,809     275,437      397,869
Repairs & Maintenance            6,433       1,268       2,690      12,065       7,655       33,400      53,913
Spare Parts                          -       1,453       2,825      4,032        1,631       21,046
Administration                   2,055       2,047       3,542       4,869      19,683       79,980      83,137
Miscellaneous                   111,731        243       1,147       1,636      17,153       16,121
Bad debt prov.                               5,767     132,217     138,425     338,153      770,317      579,971
Total Expenses                  199,740     71,391     298,902     343,298     642,098    1,345,585    1,287,980



28
1990       1991       1992        1993        1994        1995         1996
Income before depreciation   (177,866)    (42,174)    (56,530)    48,101      (6,454)    (26,530)     147,110
Depreciation \10                11,086     11,902     117,955    130,403     128,031      192,500     196,497
Interest                          406      10,593     186,916    180,211     264,116      140,915     488,186
Forex Losses                   323,160     66,165      98,213    202,695           -           -           -
Net Income                   (512,518)   (130,834)   (459,614)   (465,208)   (398,601)    (359,945)    (537,573)
Total Costlm3 produced            8.01       1.74       4.89        6.10        9.10        13.92       14.41
Total Costlm3 billed             20.03       4.35       12.22      12.20       17.51       25.31        24.02
Avg Ratelm3 produced              0.24       0.29        1.62       1.60        3.75        9.66        10.23
Avg Ratelm3 billed                0.61       0.72       4.04        3.20        7.20        17.57       17.06
Assets
Cash                            1,576      1,319     23,438      55,002      30,511      63,709      368,820
Accounts Receivable            12,986     25,468     48,120     159,659     132,921     470,812      658,173
S-t Investments
Inventory                       9,416     13,143     41,739      63,362      61,939      163,559     328,022
Total Current Assets            23,978     39,930     113,297    278,023     225,371     698,080    1,355,015
Work-in-Progress             2,030,026   4,315,668   620,913   1,325,191    1,169,198    4,090,666    6,302,881
Net Fixed Assets               206,922    207,004   4,363,879   4,478,804    5,701,278    5,388,106    5,252,362
Total Assets               2,260,926   4,562,602   5,098,089   6,082,018    7,095,847   10,176,852   12,910,258
Liabilities
Bank Overdrafts                 1,980     11,444      7,764        636        2,245           -            -
Accounts Payable              120,811    108,707    452,609      68,908      77,904      171,880     252,975
Total Current Liabilities      122,791    120,151    460,373      69,544      80,149      171,880     252,975
L-T Loans                    1,776,447   3,971,779   4,189,281   3,880,706    4,310,338    6,941,656    7,821,412
Total Liabilities          1,899,238   4,091,930   4,649,654   3,950,250    4,390,487    7,113,536    8,074,387
Equity
NetIncome                   (512,518)   (130,834)   (459,614)   (465,208)   (398,601)    (359,945)    (537,573)
Grants (local)                347,971    435,435    476,085     517,479     605,553     638,042      605,553
Grants (foreign)             222,622     222,622    222,622     222,622     232,368     232,368      232,368
Accumulated Fund             (26,284)   (488,603)   (588,468)   (895,377)  (1,212,715)  (1,530,401)  (1,211,437)
Revaluation Reserve           184,023    306,431    532,456     797,791     797,791     797,791      797,791
Construction Fund             95,675      95,675    113,125   1,813,501    2,599,982    2,973,345    4,366,199
Total Equity                311,489    440,726     296,206   1,990,808    2,624,378    2,751,200    4,252,901
Total Liab & Equity          2,210,727   4,532,656   4,945,860   5,941,058    7,014,865    9,864,736   12,327,288
Efficiency Indicators
Working Ratio                    9.13       2.44       1.23        0.88        1.01        1.02         0.90
Operating Ratio                 9.64        2.85       1.72        1.21        1.21        1.17         1.03
ARlCollection Period (months)    7.1        10.5        2.4         4.9         2.5         4.3         5.5  #
OperCostlm3 wtr prod.           2.99        0.78       2.08        2.45        5.65       11.16         9.41
Liquidity Indicators
Current Ratio                   0.20        0.33       0.25        4.00        2.81        4.06         5.36
QuickRatio                      0.12        0.22       0.16        3.09        2.04        3.11         4.06



29
1990          1991          1992          1993           1994           1995           1996
Leverage Indicators
Debt Ratio                              0.84          0.90          0.91          0.65           0.62            0.70           0.63
Debt Equity Ratio                       6.10          9.28          15.70          1.98           1.67           2.59           1.90
No. of Staff                             1,400         1,420         1,472         1,686          1,767          1,657          1,699
Production per staff (m3/yr)           47,643        64,761        97,554         83,274        64,290          72,782         80,577
No ofstaffperOOO connect.                 n.a.          n.a.           n.a.         24.4           25.1           17.0            17.0
Tariff Structure - Flat rate \1 1
Domestic I                               n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          720            800           1,200          1,200
Domestic 1I                              na.           n.a.          n.a.           40            100            250             250
Domestic m                               n.a.          na.           na.           100            400            400             400
Domestic IV                              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.             5            20              50             50
Commerciallndustril                      n.a.          n.a.          n.a-          130            390            500             500
Hospitals                                n.a           n.a.          n.a.           70            210             300            300
Public Institutions                      n.a.          n.a.          n.a.           70            140            250             250
Water Vendors/Car Wash                   n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          500            500           5,000          5,000
Florists                                 n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          500            500           2,500          2,500
Metered Consumptionlm3
Ind/Commercial                           n.a.          n.a.          n.a.           22             22              82             82
Domestic                                 n.a.          n.a.          n.a.           5.5            5.5             41             41
)1  U-f-w includes physical losses & iega connection. The losses stemming firn poor commercial mgt are not captured.
Figures for yeas 1990 to 1993 bas  on ngiing estmates; figures for 1994 onward based on pilot surveys.
82 The effed of\1 above is to depreps the average tariff.
N3   is is the sandard mmum connection fee.
)4 Derved from the number of bil issue both 9i rae and metered.
)S  Mdeer nmange       was almost non-existent prior to 1996.
)6A Atndpipe policy needs to be articulated; LSWCs records do not show the no. of standpipes it owns conpared with the no. owned by local govts.
,7 Accounting records did not allow for a proper classification of billing prior to 1994.
NB Computeized billing artued in 1991, but difficulties occurred which peaked in 1993; a new system was introduced in 1994 and is still in use.
N9 Recurrent subvention from the IASG comes in the form of chemical purchas.
\10 Assest revaluation was completed in 1995 and revised figures for F.A and depreciation included in 1995 accounts (esfimated and later adjusted).
11I The tariffs (basically a series of f3at rates) prior to 1993 were much lower, were not well applied and records not well kept
SOURCE: LSWC folowing 18 months of data collection (periodic) and a meetingwith senior management of LSWC and the ICR mission.



30
Table 12: Targeted and Achieved Outputs
1. Water Supply Expansion
a) Adiyan water works (intake and raw water punping station, 8.2  to construct and supply and  as planned              no delay, completed in mid-1991
km raw water main, 320,000 m3/day treatment plant, transfer  install
pumping station, 100,000 m3 storage reservoirs, workshops, stores,
administration building, and staff accommodation.
b) 65.5 km primary trunk mains                             to install                    57 installed                 trunk main E for supply to Victoria
Island omitted due to funding
constraint and cost overruns
c) 14 kn additional primary trunk mains                    to supply and install         as planned
d) 1157 km secondary and tertiary pipelines                to supply and install         640 km supplied and installed
e) 110,000 house connections                               to supply and install         42,000 house connections
f) 75,000 consumer and bulk meters                        to supply and install          5,400 meters installed        some district meters have been
received at the port
g) 420 stnies                                              to install                    378 standpipes installed                                        l
2. Rehabilitation
a) 94 km of pipes (48 km primary, 31.9 km secondary, and 14.1 km   to rehabilitate and reinforce  not implemented      some existing tertiary pipes in two
tertiary and some house connections)                                                                                   PCUs were replaced
b) Anti salinity weir                                      rehabilitate                  new weir constructed
c) Ishasi water works                                      rehabilitate                  completed                     more extensively rehabilitated than
envisaged
d) several mini water works                                rehabilitate                  not implemented               but 3 minis rehabilitated under NWRP
e) Iju water works                                         N/A                           complete rehabilitation
undertaken
3. Administrative Infrastructure
a) 660 n2 new offices at LSWC headquarters                 construct                     1,296 m2 of new headquarters
building completed and
equipped
b) Area and Zonal offices                                  N/A                           3,583 m2area and zonal offices
completed and furnished
c) Technical center at Ilupeju                             construct                     not implemented
d) 115 new vehicles                                        supply                        78 new vehicles supplied
e) Rehabilitate 85 vehicles                                rehabilitate                  not implemented
f) Mobile plant, workshop, communication and training equipment   supply                 completed, including          in use
motorcycles, back hoe, loaders,
mobile crane, wheeled



31
excavators, etc.             l
g) Data processing equipment for billing and collection, and  supply and provide training  hardware supplied
accounting
h) Tools and spares                                         supply                        completed
i) Accommodation for operating personnel                    construct                     provided under works contract
5. Institutional Support
a) 940 manmonths for hydraulic analysis, design and supervision  to be carried out during project   as planned
implementation
b) 282-manmonths of technical support for project management,  to be implemented early in the    completed but commencement
operation and maintenance, commercial mranagement, data     project                       delayed to late 1993
processing and information technology, financial management, and
personnel management
c) implement comprehensive scheme of in-house and overseas  to be carried out during project   completed but conmmencenent
training                                                                                  delayed
d) 12 mm institutional development workshops                to be carried out during project   as planned
e) Two studies (ground water and sanitation)               to be carried out during project   as planned                 6 more studies undertaken
f) O&M study of LSWC                                        to be implemented early m the    as planned
L_______ _______ ________ _______ _______ ________ _______   projec                       _______________ ___________ _  __e_t



32
Table 13: Implementation Schedule
No.   Project Components                     Commencement         Completion (month/year)
(month/year)
SAR         Actual        SAR          Actual
_____ ____ ____  ____    Estunate                  Estumate      _   _  _  _
1.    Adiyan Water Works
a)    Supervision                       Oct. 1988    Oct. 1998    Dec. 1990    May 1991
b3    Consutuction                      Jan. 1988    Oct. 1988    Dec. 1990    May 1991
2.    Primary Trunk Mains
a)    Construction                      Apr. 1988    Oct. 1988    Sept. 1990    Jun. 1991
b)    Supervision -                                  Oct. 1988                  Jun. 1991
3.    Additional Primary Trunk
a)_Design                        Jan. 1988     Jun. 1990    Sept. 1988    May 1991
b)_Construction                  Apr. 1989    Aug. 1992    Jun. 1990      Aug 1994
c)    Supervision                       Oct. 1989    Aug. 1992    Jun. 1990     Aug. 1994
4.    Secondary/Tertiaiy Pipes and
lHouse Conetons_
a) |  Design                    | Jun. 1987   Dec. 1988    Sept. 1989    May 1991
b)    Construction                      Apr. 1989                 Sept. 1994
Contract 5                                  Aug. 1993                  Dec. 1997
Contract 6                                  Jan. 1993                  Dec. 1995
Contract 8                                  Jan. 1994                  Dec. 1997
L c)   Supervision                      Feb. 1990    Feb. 1993     Sept. 1994    Dec. 1997
5.    Technical Assistance (Twinning)    Jan. 1988   Oct. 1993    Jun. 1991     Mar. 1997
6.    Administrative Infiasucture                                  _            _    __
a)    Design and Supersion              Jun. 1988    Aug. 1992    Mar. 1989    Dec. 1997
b)   Construction                       Feb. 1989    Nov. 1993    Mar. 1990    Dec. 1997
_           _7.    Training     _       Mar. 1988    Oct. 1993    Dec. 1990    Jan. 1997
8. HRehabilitationl                                 l
a)   _Ishasi                          LN/A           Jun. 1994    N/A           Dec. 1995
b)    Anti Salinity Weir                N/A                       N/A
Design and Supervision                        Sept. 1992                 May 1996
Construction                                  Apr. 1994                  May 1996
c)    Mini Water Works                  N/A          N/A          N/A           N/A
d)    Iju Intake Works                  N/A          Feb. 1994    N/A           Jun. 1996
e)    Iju Water Works                   N/A          Mar. 96      N/A           Dec. 1997
Distribution System              N/A          Sept. 1994    N/A          Dec. 1995



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT (LN 2985-UNI)
WORLD BANK MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE: FEBRUARY 1998
1. A World Bank mission visited Lagos State February 6 to 16, 1998 to conduct an
implementation completion mission of the Lagos Water Supply Project (Ln 2985) which closed
on December 31, 1997. The mission consisted of David Henley (Team Leader), Eleanor Warner
(Financial Analyst), Eugene Okongwu (Sanitary Engineer), and Kavita Sethi (Consultant -
Economist). This Aide Memoire summarizes the mission's observations of the project status and
agreements reached. The mission wishes to express its appreciation to the General Manager,
Engr. 0. Kamson, and staff of the Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC) for their assistance
and cooperation.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
2. At the end of each Bank-financed operation, an ICR is prepared. The mission commenced
preparation of the ICR and advised the LSWC on its requirement to prepare an evaluation
reflecting LSWC's views. The mission explained that LSWC's ICR should not exceed 10 pages,
should include a summary and be sent to the Bank by end-April 1998 for inclusion in the final
joint ICR document to be presented to the World Bank's Board of Directors by June 30, 1998.
3. A two-day implementation completion workshop was convened by the LSWC providing a
forum for all stakeholders to share their views on the project. The level of interaction of all
participants was impressive as was the level of awareness of senior LSWC staff on the
importance of adequate cash flows to sustain the project's benefits. An outcome of the
workshop is the decision to have all of the department heads prepare Action Plans for
maintaining LSWC's assets. The mission recommended that these Action Plans should focus on
time-bound plans to fully operationalize all of the project's investments over the next 12 months,
including detailed maintenance procedures matched by adequate cash flow. A 5-year financial
plan will be prepared reflecting appropriate levels of expenses matched by a tariff that covers the
full operating costs as a first step. This will include commercial targets on metering, household
connections, reduction of unaccounted-for water. Collection efficiency will be monitored to
ensure that the cash is available when needed.
Achievement of Project's Objectives
4. New production facilities with a capacity of 315,000 cubic meters per day were provided
under the project as expected at appraisal. In addition production facilities with a capacity of
222,000 cubic meters per day were rehabilitated, more than the 18,000 cubic meters per day
anticipated at appraisal. The need for additional rehabilitation became evident at a mid term
review in 1992.
5. An estimated 1,157 km of additional secondary and tertiary distribution network was to be
provided however due to the withdrawal of the EIB from the project in 1992, and high priority of
additional rehabilitation needs, the funds were not sufficient to complete the additional
distribution system; about 640 km of additional distribution network was provided. The result is
that instead of doubling the number of connections (110,000 estimated at appraisal) 42,000 was



achieved; thus the expectation that the population access would increase to 6.5m was not
fulfilled.
6. Less than 50% of the connections have been finalized because of consumer reluctance to pay
the connection fee of N 5,000. The mission recommended that LSWC urgently review its
connection policy to reduce the lump sum payment with provision for payment of the lump sum
by installments. LSWC agreed to conduct a consumer education program to encourage
connection and to allow payment by installment. This will ensure that water is effectively sold
and project benefits materialize.
7. Though considerable efforts and achievements have been made in reducing unaccounted for
water (physical losses), there is a need to intensify leak detection and repairs in order to achieve
further reduction. This could involve drawing a program for replacement of existing galvanized
iron service pipes which have been shown to account for 60% of the physical losses in Lagos
with medium density polyethylene pipes over a five-year period.
8. At appraisal the mini water works with a total design capacity of 80,000 m3/day were
producing at 60% of total design capacity however after rehabilitation financed under the NWRP,
the current operating level is only 10%. Power supply is largely responsible for this, and there is
a need for LSWC to investigate the options and rectify the situation as soon as possible.
9. Preventive maintenance system is now operational in two out of the three major water works.
This program should be extended as soon as possible. More importantly, the LSWC should
arrange for regular supply of spares and budget enough resources to keep the preventive
maintenance program functional.
10. The LSWC still has a data management problem. Operating information is being collected at
various production centers. However this information does not appear to be summarized in an
appropriate format and channeled to the appropriate management level to be used as a
management tool. The mission recommends that priority be given to the preparation and
implementation of an effective MIS system.
11. Meters (zonal) have been procured to monitor consumption in particular areas, but not yet
delivered from the ports. A program should be drawn up and the responsible department held
accountable for bringing it to completion. These meters should be used along with pressure
surveys to monitor the level of leakage in various zones of the distribution system.
12. Based on limited information available, chemical consumption at the various treatment plants
appeared to be very high and should be reduced. The LSWC should pay attention to monitoring
procedures both at the treatment plant and on stock management at headquarters. It may be
necessary to install pH sensors in key water treatment plants to routinely monitor the parameters
affecting chemical usage.
13. There are still various outstanding issues in the Iju intake works contract completed in 1996
(snag list); a program should be agreed with the contractor for the completion of items in the snag
list in the next three months to ensure that operation of the facility is not hampered by defects in
the installed plant.



14. The project was to lead to the reduction of recurrent subvention and indirectly improve public
expenditure policies. LSWC has yet to cover its cash operating expenses from water sales
because of a low average tariff, and delays in implementing improvements to commercial
management procedures. Consequently Government subvention (recurrent and debt service)
continued throughout the life of the project. At current total level of expenditure, the project
facilities are not sustainable
15. Institutionally, the administrative infrastructure has been strengthened including erection of
fully equipped new headquarters building and 5 zonal and 4 area offices. Vehicles, operating
equipment and some spare parts have been purchased and delivered although with considerable
delay. Although only limited quantities of consumer meters were procured under the project,
installation is proceeding very slowly, and the pace needs to be increased to meet appraisal
targets. LSWC has improved in technical expertise, managerial and commercial, financial and
accounting areas with the support of twinning partners, North West Water International (NWWI).
The foundation has been laid, albeit delayed largely because the starting base was very weak.
LSWC must now build upon it. It has a very long way to go; its revenue is far below potential
because of a weak tariff policy; collection procedures need to be further strengthened. It must
continue to improve on its leakage (administrative and physical); to increase metering; and to
pursue programs for improvements in maintenance, accounting, budgeting, financial
management, commercial management, and staff development. The challenge lies in preparing
various departmental plans and holding the department heads accountable for achieving them.
The successful implementation of the departmental programs will depend in part on the level of
motivation and commitment of the staff; there is therefore a need for upward review of the
salaries of the staff tied however to improvements in revenue generation.
Summary of Assessments
16. In summary, although a reasonable volume of water has been introduced into the system with
the completion or rehabilitation of substantial production facilities, there remains deficiency in
the distribution network which ultimately affects coverage. Despite considerable efforts at
upgrading commercial procedures the financial objectives of the project have not been met. This
has been partly due to delays in providing logistical support, the late appointment of the twinning
partners, and delays in recruiting a commercial manager. LSWC financial performance has been
assessed as less than satisfactory overall when compared to projections at appraisal.
The Way Forward
17. The LSWC needs to quickly consolidate the project's achievements and move to the next
stage in its development. Estimates of capital outlays to meet demand through year 2020 range
between US$1.8 and 2.5 billion. It is unlikely that donor funds would materialize in light of
increased competition for these funds; LSWC's internally generated revenue would not be
sufficient; alternatives for private sector participation needs to be aggressively sought with the
possibility of World Bank guarantee against specified risks. LSWC's own evaluation is that
internal revenue generation must be improved, private sector participation must be promoted, and
additional financing needs top be identified to continue the expansion of the distribution system,
including financing of the shortfall in distribution compared to expectation at appraisal.



Next Steps
18. It was agreed that the Bank would forward a copy of its draft ICR to LSWC for review and
comments no later than March 31, 1998. LSWC has agreed to forward its own final evaluation
report on the project together with comments on the Bank's draft ICR within a month of receipt
of the draft ICR. The Bank will also make available the draft ICR to the other cofinanciers
(UNDP and CIDA) for their comments. The final ICR incorporating LSWC's own evaluation
will be produced in June 1998 as mentioned in par. 2 above.



Lagos Water Supply Project (Ln.2985-UNI)
Operation Plan
A. Project Finalization
Advise Bank of all final contract values              LSWC                March 15, 1998
Complete LSWC section of the ICR                      LSWC               April 30, 1998
Final disbursement request received in Washington     LSWC                April 30, 1998
Correct defects in the M&E works at Ogun Intake and Ishasi  LSWC, Contractor   May 31, 1998
standby power supply
Complete installation of consumer meters and district meters  LSWC       December 31, 1998
received under the project
B. Engineering Operations
Continue current program of leak detection and repair to  LSWC           February 28, 1998
cover all 17 zones at least annually.
Prepare strategy and action plan for the installation of  LSWC            April 30, 1998
additional service connections and water meter.
Prepare a program for the replacement of existing galvanized  LSWC        April 30, 1998
iron service connections with polyethylene pipes
Finalize arrangements for local supply of essential spare  LSWC           May 31, 1998
parts for the PMP program
Rehabilitate water production meters at Adiyan water works   LSWC        May 31, 1998
and Ogun intake works
Review connection policy and finalize all connections  LSWC              June 30, 1998
established under the Project
Improve the operating efficiency of the mini water works  LSWC            September 30, 1998
Extend preventive maintenance program (PMP) to all major   LSWC          December 31, 1998
water production works including use of extemal workshops
for planned maintenance of some major equipment
C. Commercial Operations
Appoint self financed consultants for arrears reduction and    LSWC      February 28, 1998
revenue collection for twelve month period.
Appoint head of Information Technology Department and  LSWC              March 31, 1998
commence disengagement fro the existing computer bureau,
using existing hardware.
Prepare two year metering program by the commercial   LSWC               March 31, 1998
department to install and repair meters.



Prepare departmental five-year action plans indicating  LSWC            May 31, 1998
expenditure and tariff requirements.
Operationalize meter repair workshop.                LSWC               May 31, 1998
Appoint consultant under NWRP to strengthen customer  LSWC              June 30, 1998
enumeration.
Prepare and implement new tariff policy and update   LSWC               June 30, 1998
annually.
D. Accounting Functions
Commence regular quarterly update and maintenance of  LSWC              March 31, 1998
fixed assets register.
Obtain accounting software and computerize accounts in line  LSWC       March 31, 1998
with establishment of IT department.
Produce regular timely annual audits.                LSWC               April 30, 1998
E. Manpower Development
Maintain regular in house training program focusing  LSWC               March 31, 1998
particularly on accounting, commercial, and technical
operations.
F. Planning and Development:
Obtain Ministry of Finance agreement for Bank support for   LSWC        March 15, 1998
the Lekki project.
Commence consultant studies of options for packaging  LSWC              March 31, 1998
current operations and future developments for private sector
participation.
Establish Lagos State (LASG) stakeholders committee for    LSWC/LASG    March 31, 1998
Lekki project.
Lagos Stakeholders Committee (LSC) meet Federal Ministry  LSC           April 30, 1998
of Water Resources to present proposal.
Federal Coordinating Committee to review proposal.   FMWR               May 31, 1998
Finalize Request for Proposal document for Lekki and the  LSWC          June 30, 1998
Islands water supply concession and initiate bidding process.



FEDERAL REPUMSIC OF NIGERIA
LAGOS WATER SUPPI,Y PROJECT LN2985UN
IMMPEION                        PLETION REPORT
1.0   INTRODUCTION
1.1   Lagos State is the smallest but most densely populated in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, with
a 1991 official population estimate of 6.0 million. Metropolitan Lagos accounted for about
90% of the State population. The high population of the metropolis was brought about as a
result of immigration and natural growth rate.
1.2   Due to high population, the demand for potable water supply in Lagos metropolis by far
outstrip the available supply and in effect the existing facilities cannot keep pace with
requirement. This is in terms of the production and distribution. In this regard Lagos State
Government took a bold step to initiate a solution to the potable water requirement of
metropolitan Lagos by effecting studies to be carried out and accompanying projects packaged,
for implementation in phases. This population explosion placed tremendous pressure on the
provision of water supply to the inhabitants. Due to this enormous demand for water supply
Lagos State Government established Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC) with an edict in
1980 entrusting her with the state wide responsibility to provide potable water supply to the
inhabitants.
1.3   The outcome of the project package revealed that the estimated investment cost for the
implementation by far outweigh her resources hence the need to invite mutilated funding
agencies for assistance. Lagos State Government through Federal Government of Nigeria
obtained the assistance of the World Bank (IBRD) as well as other donor agencies for the
prosecution of Lagos Water Supply Expansion Project.
2.0   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1   The original objectives of the project were to:
(a)   increase population access to public water supplies (doubling of production capacity)
laying of primary, secondary and tertiary distribution network and house connections);
(b)   Eliminate recurrent subvention support from LASG and thus, indirectly, improve
public expenditure policies;
(c)   strengthen the executing agency LSWC, including divisional operations, training
facilities and programmes, manpower management and accountability;
(d)   Improve the administrative efficiency of LSWC's operations and maintenance
(administrative infrastructure and support services including offices, depots,
workshops, stores, vehicles, spare parts, rehabilitation of existing assets);
(e)   and improve the economic efficiency, financial performance and future viability of



2
LSWC (Cost recovery tariff policy, metering, billing and collection procedures and
new accounting systems)
2.2   PROJECT COMPONENTS
The project consists of the following components:-
(a)   Expansion of Water Supply facilities: This involves the construction of an Intake
structure on the Ogun River at Akute, raw water pumping station and 7.6km of
1600mm diameter raw water main to a 320,000m3/day treatment plant located at
Adiyan Waterworks and covers flocculation, clarification, aeration, rapid sand
filtration, disinfection, treated water pumping, transmission and storage at Oke Aro
reservoir (00,000nm3) and standby generators.
(b)   Transmission and Distribution system:-
(i)    Laying of approximately 65.5km of existing steel and ductile iron pipes and fittings of
sizes ranging from 2000mm diameter to 800mm diameter from Adiyan Waterworks to
and within Metropolitan Lagos.
(ii)   Supply and Laying of additional 14km of pipeline of diameters 1200mm and 800mm in
diameter to improve access to potable water supply in the north-eastem part of Lagos
metropolis
(iii)   Supply and Laying of approximately 280km of Secondary pipeline ranging in sizes
from 800mm to 300mm in diameter and 877km of tertiary pipes of diameter smaller
than 300mm with valves and fittings; and
(iv)   Provision and installation of materials for approximately 110,000 service connections
together with 75,000 water meters and 420 additional public standposts.
(c)    Rehabilitation of Existing Systems: this involves rehabilitation works including the
anti-salinity Weir on the Ogun river to eliminate salt water intrusion, the Ishasi
Waterworks, several mini waterworks to bring them up to design output; rehabilitation
of about 94km of pipelines including replacements of defective valves and hydrants
and other spare parts and materials appropriate for improving the performance of
LSWC's facilities
(d)   Administrative Infrastructure:
(i)    Expansion, improvement and/or rehabilitation of offices, workshops, depot and stores
facilities and housing for operating personnel;
(ii)   Provision of vehicles, mobile plant and workshop, distribution system,
communications and training equipment and tools.
(iii)  Provision and installation of data processing equipment.
(e}   Institutional Support
(i)    Consultancy Services for a hydraulic analysis of the Lagos Metropolitan distribution
system, for the detailed design of primary, secondary and tertiary systems and
supervision of construction of Adiyan treatment plant and of the laying of primary,
secondary and tertiary mains and new service connections.
(ii)   Technical Support Services for project Management, accounting, billing and collection,
computing and data processing, decentralization and operation and maintenance;
(iii)   Development of training programme, training consultancy, overseas secondment of
LSWC staff for training in key areas of activity and involvement of training expert



3
support.
(vi)  Implementation of Semi-annual Planning and Review Workshops;
(v)    Studies of ground water potential and usage and development of appropriate sanitation
technologies to cope with increased public water supplies.
(vi)   An organization and management study of LSWC.
3.0    ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The overall achievement of the project has been broken into two segments viz. Physical
achievements and others.
3.1   PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENT: The overall project achievement are as listed below.
(a)    Expansion of Water Supply Facilities:
A 320,000m3/day (70mgd) treatment plant with all required facilities was constructed
and commissioned out of the Trench Syndicated Loan
Result: The project was 100% achieved.
(b)    Transmission and Distributions systems:
(i)    Laying of 54km out of 65.5km of steel pipes and fittings ranging from
2000mm to 800mm diameter. Rehabilitation of 6km of Ductile Iron pipes of
diameter 24 inch and fittings under Eko Bridge was implemented.
(ii)   Laying of 14.4km of pipes having diameter 1200mm to 600mm accomplished.
(iii)   Supply and Laying of Secondary Ductile Iron pipes and fittings of diameter
800mm to 300mm and 596km of Tertiary Ductile Iron pipes and fittings of
diameter 300mm and below.
(iv)   Installation of Polyethylene pipes and fittings for 40,000 service
connections as well as 377 public standpost were implemented 4,200 water
meters were procured and installed.
From the foregoing the overall physical achievement is estimated at about 55%
(c)    Rehabilitation of Existing system:
(i)    Construction of and entirely new Anti-salinity weir was carried out.
(ii)   6Nos. Mini Waterworks were rehabilitated under National Water
Rehabilitation Project.
(iii)   Rehabilitation of Ishasi Waterworks and its Intake works was completed.
(iv)   Re - lining of 55km of old secondary mains having sizes 24" and 28".
Result: Overall achievement is about 120%.
(d)          Administrative Infrastructure
(i)    Construction of a befitting Headquarters building with floor area of 1,296m2 in
5 floors;
(ii)   Construction of 9no. Area / Zonal offices
(iii)  Provision of 85 Nos. utility vehicles, mobile plants, as well as provision of
tools and equipment.
(iv)   Provision and Installation of data processing equipment
Result: Component accomplished - 120%



4
(e)   Institutional Support
The identified studies were fully carried out. Assistance of Consultant was utilized in
all aspect of supervisions. Twinning Arrangement local and overseas training for staff
development were accomplished.
Result: Component 100% achieved
3.2    CONSTRAINTS
i)    The overall physical achievement could not be fully realised as a result of the
withdrawal of EIB loan of $47.4 million from the total loan package.
ii)    Late effectiveness of the loan as a result of
-     High rate of staff turn-over
-     Political Instability and others.
3.3    OTHER ACHEVEMENTS
The project implementation contributed immensely in the manpower development of the
Corporation. The professional skill, were adequately tasked and developed.
Secondment of staff of other department of the Corporation to assist on project implementation
has gone a long way in skill acquisition and development of the affected staff.
The establishment and development of the Commercial department charged with the
responsibility of revenue generations have made a steady progress in their operation.
4.0    MILITATING FACTORS AGAINST FULL PROJECT REALISATION
The following factors have directly or indirectly affected smooth implementation of the
project.
(i)   Instability of the value of Naira against other International currencies like Dollar,
pound sterling etc.,
(ii)   Frequent Changes in government policies
(iii)   Political unrest.
(i)   INSTABILITY OF NAIRA VALUE
Over 2000% depreciation of the value of Naira during the life of the project has
resulted in cost overrun in most cases. This has also led to the inability of LASG to
provide counterpart fund. It would have resulted in the cancellation of the project if
not for the timely intervention of the PTF.
(ii)   GOVERNMENT POLICIES
Physical and monetary policies that had effect on the project were introduced at
random by FGN e.g. Appointment, cancellation, re-appointment of Inspection
Agencies, introduction of IDR, VAT, removal of Duty Exemption etc. All these have
effect on project implementation and completion as well as costs.
(iii)   POLMCAL UNREST
Political instability arising from the aborted transition to Civil Rule has considerable



5
effect on project implementation. Works were frequently disrupted as a result of riot,
demonstration and mob actions. These had resulted in the extension of Project
completion time and reduced level of accomplishment
5.0   FACTOR THAT ASSISTED THE PROJECT
As at the time the release of counterpart fund from Lagos State Government was on a decline,
the Petroleum (Special) Trust Fund (PTF) (a financing body set up by FGN) took over the
aspect of the Counterpart Funding as well as part funding of Iju waterworks. The PTF
contributed immensely to the completion of the project.
6.0    OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE
6.1   The potable water production facilities that were implemented under the Lagos Water
Supply Project include:-
(a)    The construction of Adiyan waterworks with a design capacity of 320MLD
(70MGD);
(b)    The Rehabilitation of the existing Iju waterworks to produce 204MLD (45MGD), and
(c)    The rehabilitation of Ishashi Waterworks to produce 18MLD (4MGD).
6.2   Sequel to the commissioning of the water treatment plant and the raw water pumping station at
Adiyan, the plant ran quite steadily for sometimes as the required applicable water treatment
chemicals were used. The use of lime which contained high impurities later constituted a major
problem as the dozing pipelines became clogged.
6.3    Copper sulphate was rarely used in the treatment process, which caused high formation of
algae. This was later controlled to ensure a high performing water treatment process.
6.4   The water treatment plant was designed to use polyelectrolyte for accelerated flocs.
formation in the clarifiers. Though this was used right from the test running day and
subsequently after commissioning, the high cost of the chemical, its unavailability
locally, affected its continuous use in the long run.
6.5    While normal design capacity of the treatment plant is 320MLD (70MGD) this was never
achieved due to losses in the system. The highest production figure achieved to date is about
68MGD. This has been an almost steady figure since the plant was commissioned except for
days when there were power outages and diesel oil for running the standby generator sets were
not readily available.
6.6   In all, the plant has performed well as adequately trained technical staff were attached right
from the pre-commissioning days. The maintenance of the installed plant and equipment by
LSWC's Engineers and technical staff is commendable except for maintenance of the 3.8MVA
Generating set at the raw water pumping station, which broke down due to the use of wrong
grade of Engine oil for its service.
6.7   Before its rehabilitation, Ishashi waterworks could only produce less than fifty percent of its
designed capacity. Among the objectives of its rehabilitation is the up-grading of the process
facility, with the use of programmable logic control (PLC). This is to allow for reduction in the
human element of its operation. This was duly achieved and the plant sometimes produces
slightly more than 100% of its design capacity of 4MGD.



6
6.8   Again lack of use of appropriate low impurity type lime contributed to the initial problems of
chemical mixing, piping and injecting into the raw water. The piping system for the lime had to
be modified accordingly.
6.9   Other problems identified was in the assembly of the internal piping for the sand filters. These
were subsequently corrected to ensure smooth running of the treatment process.
6.10   Though certain spare parts were being used up, additional items were procured to ensure the
sustainability of the plant.
6.11   There were problems with one of the installed 750KVA Perkins generators as it could not carry
adequate load while in use. This was rectified.
6.12   Adequately trained manpower have been provided for the operation and maintenance of the
treatment plant right from the period of test-running, commissioning and handing over. This
have ensured adequate and reliable performance of the treatment plant till date.
7.0   SUSTAINABILITY
Lagos Water Supply Expansion Programme has transformed Lagos State Water Corporation
into a major utility concern.
7.1   The status are as detailed below:
*  Water supply facilities has been increased to 630,000mn3/day (140mgd) installed capacity.
*  Transmission mains stand at 180 kilometers.
*  Distribution mains is about 2,000km, while consumer connections has increased to 110,000
and standpost to 3,200Nos.
*  Office accommodation has been substantially increased while a large number of mobile
plants, trucks, seldom cars have been added to the fleet of vehicles.
*  The labour force has been substantially increased in accordance with need.
7.2   These special developments have placed enormous responsibilities on the Corporation and
thereby require basic sustenance strategies. The continuous sustenance of these facilities have
been divided into segments.
*  The water treatment plants require chemical and spare parts while the standby generators
need fuel and lubricants. The chemical which are stocked and are replenished regularly are
procured at an average amount of =N=60million monthly. Lagos State Government
provides the bulk of this money in lieu of water bill for government offices.
* The spare parts required are funded from the internally generated revenue. This
requirement is usually in the neighbourhood of N10.Om per month while the materials for
the repairs of network are constantly procured also from Internal revenue.
7.3   From the above analysis a minimum monthly revenue of =N=80.Omillion will be required for
sustenance. However, the average generation is about =N=50.Omillion. The continuous
contribution by LASG on chemical procurement augment the expenditure. There has been a
progressive improvement which gives an indication of positive growth and eventual attainment
of the initial goal of =N=80 to =N=100 million monthly as internally generated revenue.



7
8.0   DESIGN FOR PHASE II WATER SUPPLY
The concept of the Lagos Water Supply Expansion Programme was originally developed in
1975 when the firm of Messrs. GKW consult of Germany was commissioned to prepare a
master plan for water supply to Lagos Metropolis up to the year 2005 AD. This was later
updated in which the emphasis was on the prioritization of projects to be implemented under
external financing. In the course of implementation of the expansion projects, these outlined
studies were carried out.
* The studies on future water supply requirement for Lagos State as well as the review of the
Master plan r i to the year 2020 AD.
*  Design of A, 'yan Waterworks phase II with capacity of 320MLD(7OMgd) with provision for
Adiyan Waterworks phase III having capacity of 320MLD (70mgd).
* Design of Otta-Ikosi Water Works with capacity of 220MLD (44mgd).
* Design of Secondary and Tertiary Distribution network and service connections for the
balance of the areas/street in Lagos metropolis e.g. Contract 7 and balance of executed contract
packages.
* Study of the groundwater potentials of Lagos State.
* Design for Primary mains extension to service Ikorodu town.
These above studies have prepared ground for the future expansion programme that will take care of
part of the ultimate Lagos State Water Supply requirement.
9.0   LAGOS STATE WATER SUPPLY EXPANSION PROJECT DEFICIENCES
OBSERVED
9.1   The contract implementation completion time particularly on the supply and laying aspect of
the projects are not realistic. The time allocated for supply i.e. 6 months was unrealistic.
9.2   The application of the fluctuation formula depleted greatly the available project fund. The
factors usually obtained with the use of the formula are far more than the inflation factors
within the country. A provision for each material being treated individually will be more
financially prudent and beneficial rather than the use of a basket of materials as obtained in the
formula.
9.3   The early financing of most equipment, electrical, mechanical, instrumentation to be
incorporated into the works will reduce the effect of application of fluctuation and overall
project cost although this front loading concept is often frowned at by IBRD.
9.4   The Bonds submitted particularly by overseas companies are usually difficult to call or
renewed especially when there is need for this. The Banks or the Issuing houses should be
forced to operate in collaboration with a locally recognised financial institution as provided by
the local laws.
9.5   The overall quality of supervision is above average on all the projects, although the consultants
always would insist in using expatriate personnel at the expense of development of local
expertise.
10.0   COMMENT ON BANK PERFORMANCE/STAFF
The project witnessed three task managers during its life. The third Task manager Mr. David
A. Henley stayed longest and really implemented the project. We wish to commend and really
ascribe the success of the project to his effort. While he is very firm on issues he exhibited a
lot of understanding and provided the much required guide on the project. He is a total success
on this project.



I



MAP SECTI



BR A20020
NIGERIA
LAGOS WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                                               (JOWATERWORKS
EXISTING AND PROPOSED WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES                                                                                                  0  ISAGA RESERYOfR
AND STORMWATER DRAINAGE
Existng Primr-y Network
Existing Secondory Network
Built-up Arems with Existig Service                                                                                     EGE
O     Overhead Tanks                                                                                                                              E4
*     Mini Waterworks                                                                                            I
Planning Control Unit Boundonies                                               *
Built -p Areas without service, to be included
in Stage  (~990)
Under
Proposed   Construction   Existing
A    6i    A                A      Sewage Treatment Systems
X   - -                               Channels and Conduits
International Boundaries
MILES                                                                 *ISASI WATERWORXS
U        2        4         6        E        ix\                                                                                                                                 /             r /   \ 6
KILOMETERS
>'-.a    so e      's           *ww\C;nAn \ 
_ \ _
BENIN )g Tt                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2bU
1    ~            ~~~~~ R-, IA
CA.EROOS
SEPTEMBER 1986



