Page  1
                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2985 UNI
                    Loan Agreement
          (Lagos State Water Supply Project)
                        between
              FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                 Dated March 31, 1989
                                   LOAN NUMBER 2985 UNI
                    LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1989, between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  Lagos State of Nigeria (Lagos State) intends to
obtain from a consortium of French Commercial Banks (the
French Commercial Banks) two loans (the French Commercial
Bank Loans) in an aggregate amount equivalent to one
hundred thirty-seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($137,500,000) to assist in financing Parts A and
B (1) of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in agreements (the French Commercial Bank Loan
Agreements) to be entered into between Lagos State and
the French Commercial Banks;
     (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the
Page  2
European Investment Bank (EIB) a loan (the EIB Loan) in
an amount equivalent to forty-seven million seven hundred
thousand dollars ($47,700,000) to assist in financing
Parts B (2), B (3) and C (1) of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the EIB Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
EIB;
     (D)  the Government of Canada (CIDA) has agreed to
make a grant (the CIDA Grant) in an amount equivalent to
three million two hundred thousand dollars ($3,200,000)
to assist in financing Part E (1) of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CIDA
Grant Agreement) dated June 10, 1986 between the Borrower
and CIDA;
     (E)  the Borrower has obtained from the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP
Grant) in an amount equivalent to five hundred fifty-four
thousand dollars ($554,000) to assist in financing Part
E (6) of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement) dated
October 4, 1985 between the Borrower and UNDP;
     (F)  the Project will be carried out by Lagos State
Water Corporation (LSWC) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will relend
to Lagos State the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement;
     (G)  Lagos State will in turn make the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower available to LSWC
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and LSWC and the Lagos State Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and Lagos State;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement,
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and LSWC of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement;
     (b)  "Lagos State Agreement" means the agreement
between the Bank and Lagos State of even date herewith,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Lagos State Agreement;
Page  3
     (c)  "First Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Lagos State pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the First
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to he entered into between Lagos State and
LSWC, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Lagos State
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Second
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (e)  "LSWC Edict" means the Lagos State Water
Corporation Edict, No. 25 of 1986 as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower
pursuant to exchanges of letters dated January 16, 1985,
March 5, 1985, August 18, 1986 and September 29, 1986,
between the Borrower and the Bank.
                      ARTICLE II
                       The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy-three
million two hundred thousand dollars ($173,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all
unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31,
1996 or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  4
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for
each Interest Period equal to one-half of one percent per
annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for the last
Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month
               period commencing on each date specified
               in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
               including the Interest Period in which
               this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the
               cost of the outstanding borrowings of the
               Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982,
               expressed as a percentage per annum, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank.
          (iii)     "Semester" means the first six
                    months or the second six months of a
                    calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. The Director General, Federal Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall within the
limits of its constitutional powers, cause LSWC and Lagos
State to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement and the Lagos State Agreement all the
obligations of LSWC and Lagos State therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all actions, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable LSWC and
Lagos State to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent
or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the
Loan to Lagos State under a first subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
Lagos State, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank and which shall include annual
interest at the variable rate referred to in Section 2.05
Page  5
of this Agreement and repayment of principal in twenty
years (including a five-year grace period) and the
assumption of the foreign exchange risk by LSWC.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the First Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works, and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by LSWC
pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
                      ARTICLE IV
                 Remedies of the Bank
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  LSWC and Lagos State shall have failed to
perform any of their obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Lagos State Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that LSWC and Lagos State will be able to
perform their obligations tinder the Project Agreement
and the Lagos State Agreement.
     (c)  The LSWC Edict shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of LSWC to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of LSWC or for the
suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph:
               (A)  the right of the Borrower or Lagos
                    State to withdraw the proceeds of
                    any grant or loan made to the
                    Borrower or Lagos State for the
                    financing of the Project including
                    the French Commercial Bank Loans,
                    the EIB Loan, the CIDA Grant and the
                    UNDP Grant) shall have been
                    suspended, cancelled or terminated
                    in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                    terms of the agreement providing
                    therefor, or
               (B)  any such loan shall have become due
Page  6
                    and payable prior to the agreed
                    maturity.
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower or Lagos State
               (as the case may be) establishes to the
               satisfaction of the Bank that such
               suspension, cancellation, termination or
               prematuring is not caused by failure of
               the Borrower or Lagos State to perform
               any of its obligations under such
               agreement and adequate funds for the
               Project are available to the Borrower or
               Lagos State from other sources on terms
               and conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this
               Agreement or Lagos State under the Lagos
               State Agreement.
     Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur,
subject in the ease of the event specified in paragraph
(e) (i) (B) of that Section to the proviso of paragraph
(e) (ii) thereof.
                       ARTICLE V
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and Lagos State;
     (b)  the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of Lagos State and LSWC; and
     (c)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness
of the French Commercial Bank Loan Agreements and the EIB
Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 5.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by LSWC and is legally binding
upon LSWC in accordance with its terms;
     (b)  that the Lagos State Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Lagos State and is legally
binding upon Lagos State in accordance with its terms;
     (c)  that the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and
Lagos State and is legally binding upon the Borrower and
Lagos State in accordance with its terms; and
Page  7
     (d)  that the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by Lagos State and LSWC
and is legally binding upon Lagos State and LSWC in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VI
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic
Development of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Honourable Minister
          Federal Ministry of Finance and
               Economic Development
          PMB 12591
          Federal Secretariat, Ikoyi
          Lagos, Nigeria
          Cable address:           Telex:
               FEDMINFIN                21248 (ITT)
               Lagos
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
               By /s/ Hamzat Ahmadu
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  8
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
                      SCHEDULE 1
        Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
(1) Equipment,         60,300,000       100% of foreign
    materials and                       expenditures
    vehicles                            or 85% if pur-
    (including                          chased locally
    spare parts)
(2) Civil works        81,300,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures and
                                        50% of local
                                        expenditures
(3) (a) Consultants'    8,500,000       100%
        services
    (b) Technical       5,700,000       100%
        assistance
        and training
(4) Refunding of        1,500,000       Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                    suant to Section
    tion Advance                        2.02 (c) of this
                                        Agreement
(5) Unallocated        15,900,000
       TOTAL          173,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after May 31, 1986.
                      SCHEDULE 2
Page  9
              Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase
population access to public water supplies; (ii) to
eliminate subvention support from Lagos State to LSWC for
recurrent expenditures; and (iii) to strengthen LSWC
including its management, operations and maintenance,
training facilities and programs, manpower management,
accountability, economic efficiency, financial
performance and future viability.
     The Project which forms the first phase of a 15-year
expansion program consists of the following Parts,
subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and
the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:   Expansion of Water Supply Facilities
     Construction of: (i) an intake structure on the Ogun
River at Akute; (ii) a raw water pumping station, and 8.2
km of 1600 mm diameter raw water main to a treatment
plant (320,000 m3/d) to be constructed as part of the
Project at Adiyan, including facilities for the pumping
and transmission of water to be stored at Oke-Aro
reservoir (100,000 m3); and (iii) standby generators.
Part B:   Transmission and Distribution System
(1)  Laying of approximately 65.5 km of steel and ductile
iron pipes and fittings from the Adiyan waterworks to and
within metropolitan Lagos.
(2)  Supply and laying of an additional 14 km of
pipelines to improve access in the various parts of
metropolitan Lagos.
(3)  Supply and laying of approximately 280 km of
secondary pipelines and 877 km of tertiary pipes together
with valves and fittings.
(4)  Provision and installation of materials for
approximately 112,000 new service connections, together
with 75,000 meters (consumer as well as production and
zonal) and 420 additional public standposts.
Part C:   Rehabilitation of Existing Systems
     Rehabilitation works including: (1) the anti-
salinity weir on the Ogun River to minimize salt water
intrusion; (2) the Ishasi waterworks; (3) several mini
waterworks to bring the rehabilitation works up to design
output; (4) rehabilitation of about 94 km of pipelines
including replacements for defective valves and hydrants;
(5) supply and laying of tertiary pipes to reinforce the
existing distribution system hydraulically including
connections and metering; and (6) provision of other
spare parts and materials appropriate for improving the
performance of LSWC's facilities.
Part D:   Administrative Infrastructure
(1)  Expansion, improvement and/or rehabilitation of
LSWC's offices, workshops, depot and stores facilities
and housing for operating personnel of LSWC.
(2)  Provision to LSWC of vehicles and mobile plant and
workshop, distribution system, communications and
training equipment and tools.
(3)  Provision to and installation for LSWC of data
Page  10
processing equipment.
Part E:   Institutional Support
(1)  Assistance to LSWC in carrying out: (a) a hydraulic
analysis of the Lagos Metropolitan Area distribution
system; and (b) detailed design of primary, secondary and
tertiary systems and supervision of: (i) construction of
the Adiyan treatment plant, (ii) the laying of primary,
secondary and tertiary mains, and (iii) the laying of new
service connections.
(2)  Provision of technical support services to LSWC in
the areas of project management, accounting, billing and
collection, computing and data processing,
decentralization and operation and maintenance.
(3)  Development of training programs and training of
LSWC staff, (including overseas training).
(4)  Implementation Planning and Review Workshops for
institutional development and miscellaneous support to
LSWC.
(5)  Assistance to LSWC in carrying out studies of
groundwater potential and usage and of appropriate
sanitation technologies to cope with increased public
water supplies.
(6)  An organization and management study of LSWC.
                   *   *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by September
30,
1995.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                 Amortization Schedule
                                   Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  (Expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
     beginning February 1, 1994
     through   February 1, 2008              5,775,000
On August 1, 2008                            5,725,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar
     equivalents determined as of the respective dates
     of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
     3.04 and 4.03.
                Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the
purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
Page  11
     Time of Prepayment                 Premium
                         The interest rate (expressed as
                         a percentage per annum)
                         applicable to the balance
                         outstanding on the Loan on the
                         day of prepayment multiplied
                         by:
Not more than three years               0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but               0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                 0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not          0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not         0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before         1.00
     maturity
                      SCHEDULE 4
                    Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1, to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made
as follows:
     (a)  on the basis of a request or requests by the
Borrower for a deposit or deposits which add up to the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  12
     (b)  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such
intervals as the Bank shall specify. on the basis of such
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account for which the Borrower requests
replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior
to or at the time of such request, such documents and
other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3
of this Schedule, no further deposit into the Special
Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the
following situations first arises:
          (i)  the Bank shall have determined that all
               further withdrawals should be made by the
               Borrower directly from the Loan Account
               in accordance with the provisions of
               Article V of the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
          (ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
               allocated to the eligible Categories,
               less the amount of any outstanding
               special commitment entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions with respect to-the
               Project, shall be equal to an amount
               equivalent to twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph
4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will
Page  13
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount
for crediting to the Loan Account.
