Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 21708-ME
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAI, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3790-ME)
December 29, 2000
Environmental and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Managemen t Unit
Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela, Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange rate as of December 2000
Currency Unit: Mexican Peso
1US$ = 9. 40 Pesos
BORROWER FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDS        Social Development Agreement between Federal and State Governments
COPLADE  State Planning Council
DRD I      First Decentralization and Regional Development Project
DRD II    Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project
ITG        Inter-State Technical Group
MSIF       Municipal Social Infrastructure Funds
MPWG       Municipal Presidents Working Group
MTR        Medium Term Review
NAFIN      Nacional Financiera
PCU        Project Coordination Units
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SECODAM  Ministry of the Comptroller and Administrative Development
SEDESOL  Ministry of Social Development
SHCP       Ministry of Finance
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
SRA        State Roads Agency
SWA        State Water Agency
Vice President:    Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Director:   Mr. John Redwood
Sector Leader:     Mr. Adolfo Brizzi
Task Team Leader:  Mr. Julio Cordoba



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3790-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE....................................................................................................................................... I
EVALUATION SUMMARY...........................................................................................................I
A. PROJECT DATA..1
B.       PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS ........................................................................2
C.      ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN ...............................................2
D.      ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS ...................................................... . .6
E.      MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME .................................... 14
F.       SUSTAINABILITY .....................................................                                    s15
G.       BANK AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ................................. 15
H.   LESSONS LEARNED .................................                                                           17
I.   PARTNER COMMENTS .................................                                                          18
K.   ANNEXES .................................                                                                   21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3790-ME)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Decentralization and
Regional Development Project in Mexico, for which Loan 3790-ME in the amount of $500 million was
approved on September 13, 1994, signed on October 2, 1994 and made effective on February 2, 1995.
2.     The Project closed on June 30, 2000, one year after the original estimate of June 30, 1999.
Moreover, in order to permit pending loan disbursements, the Bank conceded an administrative extension
to October 12, 2000. The loan was almost fully disbursed (94 percent) and the remainin.g resources were
cancelled ($29.3 million).
3.     The ICR was prepared by Julio Cordoba (Task Manager, ESSD) and Manuel Lasaga
(Consultant). Adolfo Brizzi (Sector Leader) and Anna Sant'Anna (past Task Manager, HD) reviewed the
ICR. Preparation of this ICR was begun during the final Supervision/ICR Mission, which took place in
September 2000. The ICR is based on materials in the project file, interviews with Bank staff involved in
project preparation and implementation, interviews with the Mexican Government's staff in Mexico, and
site visits to participating states and municipalities. The Borrower (NAFIN) prepared the Project Review
from the Government of Mexico's perspective. Comments on the draft ICR received from NAFIN and
SEDESOL have been largely incorporated into this final version.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3790-ME)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1. The Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project (DRD II) was designed as a
continuation of the predecessor DRD I. Increasing decentralization and strengthening the
authority and capacity of state and local governments to manage public finance, to establish
investment priorities and to provide basic infrastructure services has been a central goal of the
Federal government during the past decade. During the implementation of the l)RD II project
the government further defined strategies for accelerating the decentralization process,
improving the targeting and quality of investment programs and strengthening state and local
institutions involved in rural development and rural poverty alleviation.
Project Objectives and Design
2. The objectives of this project were reasonable and consistent with the Bank's country
assistance strategy. The project's decentralization objective dealt with the reinforcement of state
and local institutions' capacity to manage infrastructure projects, while the regional development
goal was defined in terms of investments in social and economic infrastructure in the rural areas
of the eight participating states (Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero, Puebla, Michoacan, Hidalgo,
Veracruz, and Zacatecas). Compared to its predecessor, DRD II covered a broader geographical
area while focusing on basic infrastructure and institutional development. Whereas DRD I dealt
with investment programs implemented by both the states and the municipalities, DRD II's
targets and focus shifted more towards municipalities in rural areas.
Project Implementation and Outcome
3. The DRD II started as an investment program for rural communities with institutional
strengthening of municipalities, states and the Federal government. The implernentation of the
project had two distinct phases: a) from effectiveness to the end of 1997, the project supported a
federal program led by SEDESOL under the umbrella of an array of programs that were intended
to fight poverty, known as Ramo 26 1; b) from January 1998 to-date, the project supported the
decentralized Municipal Social Infrastructure Fund (MSIF), under the umbrella of a new line-
item of the budget known as Ramo 33 (Contributions to States and Municipalities).
1 A "Ramo" is both a line item in the National Budget and the set of purposes, norms and institutiDnal arrangements
under which the programs financed through this line item are to be executed. Frequently, Ramo refers also to the
programs themselves.



ii
4. The project was able to achieve its objectives of increasing access of rural communities to
basic infrastructure and supporting the government's decentralization strategy. A modification
of the decentralization framework in January 1998 implied major policy changes by
unexpectedly accelerating the decentralization process of the social investment program towards
the municipalities, and requiring a major restructuring of the project implementation
arrangements.
5. The SEDESOL post-implementation report for the first phase (1995-97) provided abundant
information on the number of sub-projects, their characteristics and a basic demographic profile
of the beneficiaries. It may be still too early to assess the impact on poverty reduction. However,
empirical evidence shows the remarkable contribution of the FMIS to address the needs of the
rural populations and facilitating access to basic services and infrastructure, thus improving their
standards of living. The state governments that participated in the second phase of the project
(1998-to-date) have not been able to provide as yet, a consistent and harmonized set of
information.
6. The 1998 change in the federal decentralization policies altered the nature and the scope of
the program being supported by the Bank, including the elimination of the involvement of
SEDESOL as executing agency, and of SECODAM as administrative controller. While there
were sufficient reasons to possibly proceed with the cancellation of the loan, the Governnent
and the Bank decided to embark in a major restructuring effort so as to adjust the legal
documents of the project to the new framework. These made it possible for the Bank to play a
role in solving practical issues regarding monitoring and auditing processes during the transition
process from federally mandated to state and municipal social investment programs and
establish, for the first time, a direct operational dialogue at the state level.
7. Some of the merits in the outcome of the project are not quantifiable. The project helped to
further solidify the success of the decentralized infrastructure investment approach through the
promotion of community participation. The reliance on standardized policies and procedures
reinforced fiscal discipline at the state and local levels.
8. The contribution to the institutional capacity at the state and local levels to assume greater
responsibility in supporting rural development was a major achievement, although it was not as
envisioned in the SAR.
Sustainability
9. The sustainability of the project is judged to be likely since there is evidence that the
government will continue to support the decentralization process. The decentralized approach
has become an important vehicle for community involvement in infrastructure investments. A
critical area for improvement is the strengthening of institutional capacity of the states and
municipalities, which is key to sustainability.
10. A most important result of the project was the consolidation of its main operational
arrangements into the Fiscal Coordination Law, during the 1998 reform.  This major
achievement ensures the sustainability of the conceptual and methodological approach of the



iii
DRD I and DRD II projects. It also puts a greater responsibility on state and municipal
implementation as a key element to sustainability and to the delivery of quality services.
Bank and Borrower Performance
11. Bank performance was up to the task except for some weaknesses in project design and
supervision. In general, the project was well designed and focused on few important sub-sectors.
The Bank's decision in 1998 to continue with the project despite the operational obstacles and its
persistence in searching viable restructuring options proved to be an important factor of project
success.
12. The commitment of the government to support regional development and decentralization
initiatives goes back to the late 1980s with the creation of the Solidarity program. After a
positive outcome for DRD I, the government was very supportive of this follow-up operation and
committed considerable resources to it. However, the drastic shift in decentralization policies in
1998 caused a period of uncertainty during which SEDESOL lost most of its jurisdiction over the
matters covered by the project, not only in project implementation but also in monitoring, a
function that was not really taken over at the federal level. After 1997, SEDESOL stopped
providing data about municipal spending although the law allowed it to maintain this function.
However, SEDESOL produced a very valuable report on the implementation experience of the
first phase (1995-1997).
13. During the transition from Ramo 26 to Ramo 33, NAFIN was heavily involved in
coordinating some aspects of project implementation and monitoring, and considerably helped
the states in organizing disbursement arrangements. Its participation was instrumental in the
successful outcome of the project. SECODAM, while it had to relinquish its authority to
supervise the use of public funds at the state and municipal level under Ramo 33, was
nevertheless helpful in providing its assistance to the definition of a new audit compliance
scheme.
Lessons Learned
14. Several lessons are to be learned:
*  The follow up to an earlier successful project is likely to also succeed. In the case of DRD II
the very successful Municipal Funds Program introduced during DRD I provided an
important vehicle for continuation and expansion of the government's decentralization
strategy.
* Unforeseen changes in the external environment can lead to important modifications of the
operational arrangements of a project without necessarily compromising the final outcome.
Persistence, combined with a flexible approach to project implementation and restructuring,
backed by strong Bank's management commitment, can result in a successful outcome.
* Decentralization of resources for rural development, in the absence of careful supervision
and strengthening of those entities responsible for project planning and implementation, may



iv
compromise the returns on community investments and result in uneven coverage and quality
of the infrastructure services being delivered.
* The usefulness of simple project design cannot be over-emphasized. A simple and well-
focused project (though very large) has a much greater likelihood of success and of
contributing to national development objectives.
* The promotion of a participatory approach to the delivery of basic infrastructure will
contribute to a greater understanding of the project benefits, enhanced maintenance and
sustainability of the investments.
. The 1998 reform demonstrated that municipalities and state governments were able to
proceed with project implementation in the absence of the federal agencies previously
responsible for it. However, the monitoring and evaluation function, while still carried out at
the state level, was largely lost from the federal perspective due to the lack of central
coordination.
•  As seen from the Borrower's perspective, the project contributed to gathering the following
lessons: (i) the good experience of municipal authorities working together with communities;
(ii) the use of formulas as a non-discretionary way of allocating funds to municipalities; (iii)
the importance to adapt Bank's procedures to prevailing circumstances and to changing
strategic directions; and (iv) the importance to put in place monitoring requirement in the
context of complex decentralized projects with a large number of local actors.
- A major lesson can be derived from the practical problems faced by the project after 1998.
In this new scenario, there is no clear way to implement Bank-financed projects or programs
that address sectoral issues that are being decentralized to local governments. A joint effort
of the federal government and the Bank to study local legislation and institutional capacities
could lead to establish new schemes and procedures to make possible international financing
of relevant decentralized programs.



MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 3790-ME
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A.  Project Data
Report Date             December 29, 2000
Name                    Second Decentralization and       L/C Number: :3790 ME
Regional Development Project
Country/Department      Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela    Region: LAC
Sector/Subsector        ESSD
Original                         Revised/Actual
Key Dates
PCD                     04/07/1993                       04/07/1993
Appraisal               01/31/1994                       01/31/1994
Approval                09/13/1994                       09/13/1994
Effectiveness           01/03/1995                       02/02/1995
MTR                     03/31/1997                       05/23/1997
Closing                 06/30/1999                       06/30/2000
Borrower            NAFIN
Implementing Agency SEDESOL
Other Partners       SHCP, States and Municipalities



2
Staff                       Current                    At Appraisal
Vice President             David de Ferranti           Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager            Olivier Lafourcade          Carl Dahlman
Sector Manager             John Redwood                Michael Baxter
Team Leader of ICR         Julio Cordoba               --
ICR Primary Author         Manuel Lasaga               --
Team Leader of Appraisal   --                          Andrea Silverman
B. Principal Performance Ratings
1. The principal performance ratings are the following:
Outcome                          Satisfactory
Sustainability                   Likely
Institutional Development Impact  Satisfactory
Bank Performance                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance             Satisfactory
QAG                        ICR
Quality at entry                 N/a                         Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time      N/a                         Yes
C.  Assessment of Development Objectives and Design
Background
2. The Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project (DRD II) was designed as a
continuation of the predecessor DRD I. The government expressed strong interest in DRD II,
which would continue and further develop the successful experience of the first project, while
expanding its geographical scope. Increasing decentralization and strengthening the authority
and capacity of state and local governments to manage public finance, to establish investment
priorities and to provide basic infrastructure services has been a central goal of the Federal
government during the past decade. During the implementation of the DRD II project, the
government further defined strategies for accelerating the decentralization process, improving
the targeting and quality of investment programs and strengthening state and local institutions
involved in rural development and rural poverty alleviation.
2 See ICR for DRD I, Loan 33 1O-ME, Report Number 16229-ME.



3
3. DRD I underlined the importance of decentralization in order to improve the effectiveness of
municipal investments in basic infrastructure. The key lessons from the earlier project pointed to
some specific problems, like: (i) spread of investments over too many sectors with a large
number of implementing agencies; (ii) insufficient development of the techrical capacity of
SEDESOL; and (iii) lack of strategy for the implementation of the productive investment
component.
General Objectives
4. The DRD II started as a federal investment program for rural communities with components
that also addressed institutional strengthening of municipalities, states and the federal
government.  It was then caught up in a major institutional change -in 1998-, which
unexpectedly accelerated the process of decentralization of the social infrastructure program
towards the municipalities. Although it was not anticipated at appraisal, the pro ject had two well
differentiated phases: (i) from effectiveness to the end of 1997, it supported a federal program for
municipal infrastructure development, closely following the original institutional design, and (ii)
from 1998 to its closing in June 2000, it supported a program with the same content, but
managed by local governments. These changes did not mean modifications of the project.
5. As per the Staff Appraisal Report and the Loan Agreement, the project development
objective was designed as follows:
To increase access of rural poor and indigenous communities to basic social and economic
infrastructure and to income-generating activities, and thus alleviate poverty; and to strengthen
the institutional capacities at the state and local levels to assume greater responsibility in
supporting rural development.
Project Components
6. In order to achieve these general objectives, the project was designed with the following five
components, as defined in the SAR:
(a) Municipal Investment and Institutional Development (US$737 million). This component
would finance small-scale community selected and managed works, for water supply
development, rural roads, school rehabilitation, productive activities, and other small
infrastructure works of priority to rural communities, through SEDESOL's Muiicipal Funds and
school rehabilitation (Escuela Digna) programs. The component would also develop the fiscal,
administrative and technical capacity of rural and semi-rural municipalities, through studies,
technical assistance, training, and support for legislative and regulatory reforms at the state level.
Individual infrastructure investments in this component would not exceed US$50,000.
Communities would be required to provide 20% of total project cost in cash or kind.
(b) Rural Water Supplv (TJS$178 million). This component would provide potable water to small
rural localities (between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants), by financing investments whose technical
complexity and cost make them inappropriate or ineligible for the Municipal Funds program.
The component would also improve the capacity of state water agencies and municipalities to



4
manage water supply investment and operations and maintenance efficiently and effectively.
Sub-projects would be selected and contracted by state water agencies, using established
investment selection criteria and standard parameters for engineering design.
(c) Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$133 million). This component would
finance the rehabilitation and maintenance of priority sections of the rural road network, while
developing the capacity of state road agencies and municipalities to do so efficiently and
effectively. Rehabilitation investments would be managed by state-road agencies, selected based
on an established set of criteria, and designed according to standard engineering parameters and
costing on average US$7,000 per kilometer. Municipalities and communities would have an
active role in implementation, with labor intensive works contracted to municipalities through
inter-governmental agreements. A municipal maintenance program to cover roads rehabilitated
would also be financed.
(d) Income-generating Component (US$12 million). This component would provide technical
assistance, training, and limited investment to develop and pilot new strategies to support
income-generating projects in rural areas, by strengthening income-generating activities in the
Municipal Funds program and by supporting the development of income-generating programs by
state agriculture agencies in one or two pilot states.
(e) SEDESOL Institutional Development and Project Coordination (US$35 million).
SEDESOL's capacity to manage the project-financed programs would be strengthened.
Financing would be provided for a program of institutional development technical assistance and
training, contracting of technical expertise required for the supervision and review of each
component, and continued development of the project information and monitoring system.
Annual project audits would also be financed.
7. The objectives of the project were reasonable and consistent with the Bank's country
assistance strategy. The project's decentralization objective dealt with the reinforcement of state
and local institutions' capacity to manage infrastructure projects, while the regional development
goal was defined in terms of investments in social and economic infrastructure in the rural areas
of the eight participating states of Chiapas, Oaxaca, Puebla, Veracruz, Hidalgo, Guerrero,
Michoacan and Zacatecas.
8. The design of DRD II addressed the main problems raised by the evaluation of DRD I. First,
the majority of the project resources were directed to the Municipal Social Infrastructure Fund,
based on its successful track record during the earlier project. The program would be reinforced
through enhanced monitoring and technical assistance. Second, other investments at the state
level were limited to three sub-sectors: water supply, rural roads, and income generating
activities. Third, as a consequence of the reduction of the scope and nature of the investments,
the number of implementing agencies was reduced in each state.
9. While DRD I dealt with investment programs implemented by both the states and
municipalities, the focus of DRD II showed a clear shift towards municipalities for the
implementation of basic infrastructure, especially in rural areas. Also, DRD II expanded the
coverage from four to eight states, covering 1,437 municipalities. While there were fewer



5
sectors, the vast number of communities and sub-projects created a major challenge for project
implementation and supervision. The Bank's financing was aimed at an investnment program of
$1.1 billion, but most of the sub-projects were limited to $50,000.
10. The Municipal Social Infrastructure Fund was driven by community participation both in
terms of the selection of projects and in their implementation. Community participation in
investment selection effectively complemented the use of eligibility criteria and improved the
quality and the relevance of the selected projects. The MSIF had been initially conceived in the
DRD I as a small sub-component of that project. However, due to its recognized success, its size
was more than tripled through successive increases of the budget allocations, so that DRD II
effectively captured the importance of this vehicle in its design.
11. The rural water supply and road rehabilitation components were introduced in order to
handle larger projects that exceeded the Municipal Fund Program criteria of $50,000. As per the
SAR for DRD II, these sub-sectors were expected to maintain a similar profile as in DRD I, i.e.
about 18 percent and 15 percent respectively of project's total investments. One of the
innovative features of this project was the introduction of a maintenance and repair crew for rural
roads (peones camineros) to be contracted by the municipalities.
12. The income-generating component was perhaps the more controversial component of the
project design. It did not fit well within SEDESOL's operational structure. This component also
detracted from the basic structure of the project, which was the development of social
infrastructure by municipalities in rural areas. The management of this component called for a
new set of policies and procedures regarding sub-project appraisals and evaluations thus adding
to the already burdensome policies of the Operational Manual. This component could have been
developed as a separate project.
13. The municipal institutional strengthening component was comprised mostly of technical
assistance to municipalities in: i) works planning and programming; ii) the development of
municipal budgeting and accounting practices; and iii) the promotion of community
participation.
14. The backbone of the project's operations was the Project Operational Manual, which was
developed by SEDESOL and distributed to the participating states. This was an extensive
document with numerous procedures required by the Bank that went beyond the technical
capacity of many municipalities. Perhaps a more simplified document may have been more
effective for the implementation of the project. The Bank also included specific selection criteria
for the sub-projects, which added to the administrative burden during implementation. For
example, some municipalities were excluded based on economic status, and the amount of funds
that could be invested in the seat of the municipality (cabecera) was also limited. While these
conditions seemed logical in terms of ensuring the coverage to the neediest areas, they may have
proved contradictory with an increasing focus towards decentralization and devolution of
decision making at the local level.



6
Quality at entry
15. Quality at entry of the project is rated as Satisfactory. Project objectives were consistent with
CAS and Government priorities. Project design complied with safeguard policies, although no
specific studies were made on its likely impact over indigenous peoples, since DRD II was
considered as a continuation of a former project. Quality of design was satisfactory at entry:
most of the changes the project suffered afterwards were attributable to non-foreseeable
circumstances. One of the few weaknesses of the design was the supervision burden of working
with over 100,000 sub-projects spreading over 8 states, meaning over 1,400 municipalities and
near 100,000 communities, and monitor detailed data for each of them. This proved to be
excessive.
Risks
16. During implementation, the project was at risk on two different occasions. In 1997,
disbursements were suspended for a few months due to considerable delays in the provision of
audits; this occurred at a time when monitoring reports had also a considerable lag.  Things
straighten up and disbursements resumed promptly. In 1998, the project suffered a hard blow
when changes in the Mexican Law made impossible the operation of the existing institutional
scheme, on which the project operation was based. It took two years to the Borrower and the
Bank to re-design the institutional framework, restart monitoring and production of SOEs and
resume disbursements. During this lapse, both the Borrower and the Bank considered the option
of canceling the project, but decided to give it an opportunity to re-organize under an
unprecedented scheme that could be the base for future operations.
D.  Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
17. This section separately discusses the implementation experience during two main periods:
first under the original federal institutional environment (known and referred to as Ramo 26);
and second, under the decentralization scenario established in 1998, under local governments
responsibility. This last scenario is known and referred to as Ramo 33. The section concludes
with an assessment of the final outcome.
IMPLEMENTATION UNDER RAMO 26
The municipal investment program
18. The project became operational in February 1995, with the adoption of the Operational
Manual by SEDESOL. Physical implementation of sub-projects under the Municipal Fund
Program proceeded in a satisfactory manner. However, project management by SEDESOL was
slow in the areas of monitoring and evaluation, state level project management, and institutional
development. While these delays could be attributed to project start-up, their full justification on
this ground may be questionable in view of the fact that DRD II was a follow-up project on four



7
out of the eight states covered. On the other hand, although the conceptual design of DRD II was
less ambitious than that of its predecessor, the addition of four states and nearly 500
municipalities, coupled with the enhanced role given to communities as executors, added
complexity to its operational design. Also, the unsuccessful efforts of SEDESOL to secure
budgetary allocation to carry out the annual audits, caused delays to the ability of SEDESOL to
comply with this requirement. As a consequence, in February 1997 the Bank rated the project as
Unsatisfactory and suspended disbursements. The audit issue was eventually resolved and
disbursements were resumed in October 1997.
19. The implementation of the Municipal Fund Program was largely successful, repeating the
performance of the earlier DRD I. The quality of the information improved gradually, although
there were significant lags with some of the indicators such as the proportion of investments in
the seat of the municipal government (cabecera) and the rest of the municipality, where the
poorer communities were located.
20. The quality of the output under the Municipal Fund Program was satisfactory as indicated by
the field audits. Based on a random sample of sub-projects for the eight states, the field review
found the community-based projects of the Municipal Fund Program to be more efficient than
those managed by outside contractors. The costs of community-managed sub-projects were
found to be 30 percent below the comparable cost of a contractor. At the same time, the quality
of the sub-projects that were managed by community groups (Comites de Obras) was found to
be significantly better than the ones managed by the municipal government directly. This was
also due to the fact that works decided by communities were generally simple and small. Comites
de Obras would have also benefited from additional guidance and training in exploring
alternative sub-projects.
21. Community participation in the identification, design and implementation of Municipal Fund
Program projects was mixed across the participating states. According to supervision reports,
participation in the execution of works was considered good, in selection and maintenance
uneven, and in the design and control aspects only marginal. SEDESOL and some states could
have put more emphasis on the promotion of community participation and the fimctioning of the
Comites de Obras. However, the lack of resources prevented a more ambitious approach to
strengthening communities' capacities. One of the independent evaluations carried out under the
project concluded that the success of the works under the Municipal Fund Program was
dependent on the degree of participation by the beneficiary population.
Rural water supply and rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance
22. This component was originally included to finance investments whose technical complexity
and cost made them ineligible for the Municipal Fund Program. Disbursements for these
components were exceedingly slow. One of the reasons for the delay was the insufficient budget
allocation for this component due to the Government's strategy to put an always increasing focus
on budgetary allocation to the municipal level, therefore reducing the scope and resources for the
3 See PROINFRA, Estudio de Evaluaci6n Sobre la Sostenibilidad de las Inversiones del Fondo de Desarrollo Social
Municipal, February 1998.



8
state components. In 1997, 65 percent of Ramo 26 funds were destined to the Municipal Fund
Program, while the remaining 35 percent were for regional development, which included the
state's rural roads and water components.
23. The characteristic of the rural road component was not clearly understood by the states and
municipalities. The focus was on low cost rehabilitation and maintenance of the most important
road links. The concept of the pe6n caminero was considered mostly a job creation instrument
rather than as a mean to carry out low cost routine maintenance. Fortunately, the spot
improvement approach was also well adapted to the Municipal Fund Program, particularly the
small drainage works that could be implemented by communities on rural roads.
24. In general, states did not provide any specific funding to the state water agencies (SWAs) for
implementing the rural water component. In addition to the reasons mentioned above, the
project's rules and strategies were not sufficiently disseminated to the participating agencies.
Field reports indicated that although systems appeared to be well constructed, little assistance
was provided to the communities and municipal governments to help them form water
committees, set tariffs, and train system operators.
25. As a result of the limited institutional and budgetary capacity, the rural roads and water
components were eventually modified and reconfigured by the municipalities to fit the
organizational structure of the Municipal Fund Programs. The size of the sub-projects was
reduced in line with the $50,000 Municipal Fund Program ceiling. The spot improvement
concept for rural roads was compatible with the Municipal Fund Program strategy. Thus, when
the decision was made to cancel these two stand-alone components, the communities were still
able to benefit from these works through their incorporation into the Municipal Fund Program.
Income-generating
26. Disbursements under the component were quite low, less than one percent of allocated
project funds at the time of the Mid-term review. As explained in the earlier section, this
component did not fit well within the structure of this project. While municipalities are eager to
develop economic development programs and productive investments, they consider basic social
infrastructure as a priority for the well being of their communities.
Institutional Development
27. Delays in initiating a number of institutional development activities caused disappointing
performance early on. Little progress was registered in the technical assistance to municipalities.
One of the limitations of this component was the lack of resources allocated within this program
to the implementing agency -SEDESOL- to promote, identify, and design technical support
programs for hundreds of municipalities. Nevertheless, SEDESOL widely addressed municipal
development through other programs. The existing complexity of budget mechanisms made not
possible for SEDESOL to include these programs (belonging to the budget Ramo 20) as part of
the component financed by the loan (which was classified as Ramo 26 in the budget). Delays in
institutional strengthening of state water agencies, local water organizations, and state road
agencies impaired their capacity to manage operations effectively. On the other hand, the



9
institutional strengthening of SEDESOL exhibited satisfactory progress. The main thrust of
SEDESOL's strategy to improve its own management capacity was the hiring of long-term
consultants to provide technical expertise to the central and state-level PCUs. However, at the
time of mid-term review less than 2 percent of allocated funds for this component were
disbursed.
28. The project successfully instituted an equitable formula for distribution of SEDESOL's
resources among the states, which took into account the incidence of poverty as well as
population. It was applied nationally and published in the Official Gazette every year.
Loan Amendment 1 (1998)
29. After the first two years of project implementation and coinciding with the mid-term review,
the Bank and the Borrower proposed several amendments to enhance the effectiveness of the
project.  These changes dealt basically with the operational aspects of the project.  The
modifications to the Loan Agreement were as follows: (i) the elimination of the rural roads and
water components with the re-allocation of the funds to the Municipal Fund Program; (ii) an
increase in the disbursement percentage in certain categories, from 50 percent to 65 percent,
given the devaluation of the peso in December 1994, and the poverty focus of the project; (iii) an
increase in the aggregate amount for civil works under direct contracting for the Municipal Fund
Program; and (iv) minor adjustments to definitions of various components of the project.
IMPLEMENTATION UNDER RAMO 33
Municipal Social Infrastructure Fund
30. Without prior waming, in December 1997, the Federal Congress included the Municipal
Funds among the seven national programs for which the law of Fiscal Coordination was
amended. This changed the rules of the game regarding the transfer and management of funds to
the states and municipalities, creating a new concept -that of Aportaciones- and a mechanism
known as Ramo 33. According to this mechanism, budget funds alloc;ated to cover the
program's actions would be transferred directly to the states and municipalities, with no direct
intervention by federal agencies4. Actually, transferred funds cease to be federal and are to be
managed under local jurisdictions.
31. With respect to the operational structure of the DRD II project, the new system of funds
transfers under Ramo 33 created several problems. First, SEDESOL could no longer act as
implementing agency. Second, the national Operational Manual, which was used by this project,
was no longer valid, since it was up to the states to develop their own policies and procedures.
And third, sub-project supervision and audits were delegated to the states, without the need to
4In Mexico, all expenses of Bank supported projects are paid out of already budgeted funds. Disbursements from
the loans are received afterwards by the Treasury. The budget law allocates resources regard less of the sources of
finance. Executing agencies never can spend against the loan proceeds if not previously budgeted by law. This is
the "non-additionality" principle. Additionally, under the Mexican Constitution, local governments cannot borrow
from international sources, which prevents the Bank from directly financing prograns that axe not federally
supported.



10
report back to the Federal government, thus posing a major problem in terms of information
gathering and compliance with the Bank's auditing policies.
32. It took about a year to understand the implications of Ramo 33. In the meantime, it created a
vacuum in the project, and the generation of SOEs was discontinued during 1998-1999, stopping
new disbursements. During all that period, however, the program continued entirely under
domestic financing. The new law had also created some ambiguities regarding the assignment of
responsibilities between the states and municipalities, as well as the role of SEDESOL, which
was mostly relegated to some institutional development of these entities. The Bank held
workshops during 1998 in the eight states in order to discuss the new fiscal structure and its
implementation. At that time the Bank faced two options regarding the implementation of the
project: either find a way to adapt to the new structure, or cancel the project. In October 1998.
the Borrower requested the Bank to consider the possibility of restructuring the project. This
coincided with a new reform to the Fiscal Coordination Law that cleared up some of the
ambiguities from the original version of the legislation. On this basis the Bank made the
decision to pursue an acceptable mechanism that would allow the project to continue.
33. These changes did not affect the objectives of the project, but rather the strategy to achieve
those goals. It "de facto" established new clients at the state level whose views of the project
varied.  The responsibility shifted to the states as regulators and supervisors and to the
municipalities as independent entities with the authority to make their own decisions regarding
the application of funds to individual social infrastructure projects. The relevance of the Bank's
role was now in strengthening states' and municipalities' capacities needed for implementation of
monitoring and auditing under conditions of Ramo 33, as well as in providing support to discuss
options and national and external experiences that may contribute to a better understanding and
management of decentralization processes.
34. SEDESOL's loss of status as the implementing agency did not necessarily eliminate its role
within the project. It was still responsible for the implementation of institutional development
programs in the states and municipalities. At the same time, the new law assigned SEDESOL
the responsibility to compile information on the use of the Social Municipal Infrastructure Fund
under Ramo 33. Nevertheless, SEDESOL stopped providing the detailed information from the
states and municipalities to the Bank. The Federal government as well did not insist on
maintaining a flow of information on social infrastructure expenditures. The Bank and NAFIN
thus had to negotiate with state governments the development of an appropriate mechanism for
each individual state in order to gather the necessary information.
35. Continuation of the project hinged on the adoption by the states of adequate policies and
procedures regarding investment expenditures in social infrastructure. In January 1999, the Bank
and NAFIN, which by then had assumed some of the functions of the implementing agency,
began to meet with each of the eight participating states to determine their interest as well as the
compliance of their Operational Manual with Bank's requirements. The new scheme was first
tested in the state of Zacatecas, which had established satisfactory procedures and was able to
prepare the SOEs in conformance with Bank guidelines. By then the Bank and the Government
were able to reach an agreement with three other states: Guerrero, Puebla, and Veracruz.



11
36. The restructuring of the Loan Agreement was finalized on November 29, 1999. During the
first phase of the project under Ramo 26, the Bank had disbursed $355.9 million, the remaining
$144 million would be disbursed under this new arrangement.
Basic Infrastructure
37. During this phase of implementation, the project focused exclusively on the MSIF, since the
other components had been cancelled by the April 1998 amendment. Some of the states had
signed an agreement with the respective municipalities, which established priorities in the
investment program such as water, electricity and roads. Disbursements were made in 2000,
based on actual expenditures accumulated during 1998-1999. Each of the participating states
presented the corresponding SOEs to NAFIN, which then processed them for final presentation
to the Bank.
38. Community participation continued to be a critical factor in the success of the MSIF although
performance varied. In most of the municipalities the use of Comites de Obras for the
contracting and supervision of works was continued and strengthened while in others
communities were basically providing the unskilled labor. In general, despite initial fears that
the exit of SEDESOL from the program would have affected implementatiorn performance, the
MSIF continued to perform strongly with enhanced accountability at the local level and good
participation. However, the weak management capacity of many small municipalities appeared
to be a main source of concern.
Institutional Development
39. The restructuring of the project involved, in effect, the redefiniticn of the project
implementation arrangements with four, instead of one implementing agency. Since many
municipalities exhibited significant weaknesses in project management, the focus of this second
phase of the project was on assisting the states and municipalities with the management of the
MSIF. The continuation of this project allowed Bank staff to initiate a productive dialogue with
the states regarding the new institutional requirements of Ramo 33.
40. The Ramo 33 included a Municipal Institutional Development program with an optional
amount for each municipality of up to 2 percent of its MSIF, which led to an excessive
atomization of resources. During both the pre-1998 period and the Ramo '33 period, resources
for institutional development were clearly insufficient. This is even more striking if compared
with the considerable resources transferred to municipalities for infrastructure development.
41. The Bank's diagnosis of the institutional weaknesses of the states in administering the new
Ramo 33 program led to the negotiation of an IDF grant for $500,000, that would assist in the
strengthening of the states' oversight of public administration. The purpose of the grant was to
strengthen the states' auditing and monitoring capacity through the offices of the General
Accounting Office (Contadurias Mayores de Hacienda) and the States' C'omptroller's Office



12
(Contraloria del Estado). 5 The goal was to provide those agencies with the knowledge and skills
needed for upgrading their auditing standards to levels compatible with international practices
and to improve their control and monitoring systems in line with the new responsibilities of the
States within the context of Mexico's decentralization framework. The IDF grant was approved
in August 1999 and became effective in December 1999.
42. According to the new Fiscal Coordination Law, the distribution of funds for social
infrastructure to the states and the municipalities was determined by a formula that weighed
more favorably those areas with greater incidence of poverty. The distribution arnong states was
based on a poverty index comprised of the following variables: household income per capita,
average educational level per household, adequacy of housing, availability of adequate sewer
infrastructure, and availability of electricity and fuel for cooking. The states were in turn to use a
similar formula in determining the allocation across municipalities.
Loan Amendment 11 (1999)
43. The loan amendment basically restructured the operational characteristics of the project. The
objectives, components and description of the project remained essentially the same, except that
each of the states would now assume the role of the implementing agency. The institutional
development component focused on municipal strengthening and community participation;
therefore the sub-component dealing with the institutional strengthening of SEDESOL was
eliminated.
PROCUREMENT POLICIES, PROJECT INFORMATION, AND QUALITY CONTROL
44. Procurement procedures were maintained wisely simple by keeping a ceiling of $50,000 on
all works to be financed by the Bank. For works contracted through the Comites de Obras, this
permitted to carry out direct contracting through community participation, which permitted the
project to be executed relatively smoothly. The ceiling was slightly relaxed to $100,000 in 1997
for some water supply contracts, which required a larger economy of scale and, an inter-
municipal approach. In general, community participation in each sub-project ensured a higher
quality of the output and better sustainability. For this reason no ex-ante feasibility studies
needed to be reviewed by the Bank, the identification and appraisal process was mostly
delegated to the municipalities. The relevant sub-project documentation was contained in the so-
called "technical file" (expediente tecnico) which field supervision generally found to be
satisfactory. However, cases of weaknesses in the technical design of the project such as the
engineering drawings or the lack thereof, implementation problems or unfinished works were
also detected by the audits.
45. The project's complexity in terms of scope and large volume of sub-projects required a
highly efficient implementation system comprising of: (i) a computerized data base that could
provide timely information; (ii) intensive supervision; (iii) frequent reports; (iv) independent
evaluations by consultants; and (v) periodic meetings of participating agencies. The system was
5 The General Accounting Office is in charge of auditing the use of all public funds at any level of govermment, and
reports directly to the corresponding State Congress. The State Comptroller's office resides within the executive
branch of each government.



13
to a large extent put in place by SEDESOL; however, its complexity caused significant delays in
submitting the progress reports and the audits. SEDESOL, eventually produced an extensive and
very detailed report on pro ect implementation during 1995-1997, after the completion of its
participation in the project.
46. The basic instrument for disbursements was the SOE. The $50,000 ceiling permitted to filter
the most complex or problematic works. The Bank assigned a staff member full-time to inspect
and review these documents. It was through his analysis that many discrepancies were identified
and passed on to the Borrower for further action. The information system that was established
was not very user-friendly with respect to disbursement processes, whic;h required constant
screening to ensure compliance with the Operational Manual.
47. From the perspective of the sub-projects, the restructured operation after 1998 did not allow
the type of detailed monitoring that had been achieved under SEDESOL, mostly because the
very high cost of monitoring had no visible rewards for the local governmenlts.
48. Under Ramo 26, SECODAM had been responsible for auditing the project. By the end of
1998, the decision was made that the responsibility for auditing the project was with the state
legislatures. For the purposes of this project, the Bank accepted that the states would contract the
audits with the assistance of SECODAM. The cost of these audits became an issue, since the
Ramo 33 did not earmark money for additional audits as requested by the -Bank, and the audits
normally carried out by the states would not be considered satisfactory to the Bank. This was
eventually resolved with the federal government taking over the cost of carrying out the Bank-
required audits.
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
49. The project was able to achieve its objectives of increasing access by irural communities to
basic infrastructure and assisting with the government's decentralization strategies.  The
SEDESOL's post-implementation report provided abundant information on the number of sub-
projects, their characteristics and a basic demographic profile of the beneficiaries. The available
information is not sufficient at this time to establish the impact of the project on poverty
alleviation, and the benefits of a number of the infrastructure improvements as well as
institutional development initiatives may still take some time to be realized. However, empirical
evidence shows the remarkable contribution of the FMIS to address the needs of the rural
populations and facilitating access to basic services and infrastructure, thus improving their
standards of living. The decision to continue with the project, when there were reasonable
grounds for its cancellation, made it possible for the Bank to play an influential role during the
transition from federally-mandated programs to state and municipally-led social investment
programs.
50. Some of the merits in the outcome of the project are not quantifiable. T]he project helped to
further solidify the success of the Municipal Fund Program through the promotion of community
participation. The reliance on standardized policies and procedures reinforced fiscal discipline at
6 SEDESOL, DRD II, Reporte de Conclusi6n del Proyecto 1995 - 1997.



14
the state and local levels. There was good targeting of sub-projects. Field supervision missions
reported an improvement in the quality of basic services.
51. With respect to poverty targeting, this project helped to institutionalize the use of formulas in
the allocation of investment resources, thus eliminating discretional and ad-hoc approaches. The
new Fiscal Coordination Law established explicit formulas and required that all states and
municipalities publish the information related to the distribution of funds as well as their
destination in the Official Register. The operational infrastructure supported by this project
under the Ramo 26, subsequently served as a valuable input for the states and municipalities as
they began to build their own institutional framework under Ramo 33. On the other hand, the
development of institutional capacity at the municipal level could have been enhanced. The
relatively short duration of municipal governments (a mayor is elected for a non-renewable term
of three years) combined with the limited resources earmarked for this purpose, hindered the
possibilities to make a major contribution to institutional development issues at the local level,
while acknowledging that the capacity of municipalities has improved considerably compared to
where it was ten years ago.
E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
52. Problems of Incentives and Non-Additionality in Bank Lending to Mexico. The public
sector in Mexico operates under the policy that lending from the Bank -as well as other
multilateral agencies- does not provide additional resources to the government's expenditure
program.  Based on the annual target of budget deficit, the government determines the
expenditure budget and the Bank's financing are considered part of the foreign currency
financing of the overall deficit. In effect, the direct impact of the Bank's financing is on the
government's macro-economic management of the fiscal deficit in terms of the domestic and
foreign currency financing components. Therefore, the Bank's loan did not provide additional
resources to states and municipalities. Because of non-additionality of financial resources, Bank
projects lack incentives. Some states expected that the Bank project would bring them additional
resources over and above what they had been assigned by the Federal budget. One of the
problems with the rural road and water components, that eventually led to their closure, was that
the Federal government had not assigned sufficient resources to the state budgets to cover the
cost of these sub-projects.
53. Factors outside the control of government. During 1999, heavy flooding in some of the
participating states delayed implementation and resulted in a reallocation of MSIF resources
towards the affected communities; however, this did not have a negative impact on
implementation.
54. Factors generally subject to government control.  Perhaps the key factor from  the
government's perspective was a strong commitment to decentralization. Beginning with DRD I,
the government was convinced that the process of regional development was most effective
when managed by the communities themselves. There was some resistance early on in the
project, which mostly reflected the traditional centralized nature of public administration.



15
However, the policy shift in December 1997, which was triggered by the legislature, clearly
indicated that the decentralization trend was going to strengthen.
55. Factors generally subject to implementing agency control.  There vwere two kinds of
implementing agencies during this project. SEDESOL served as implementing agency during
the first part of the project, and when Ramo 33 was approved, this responsibility was assigned to
the participating States with the help of NAFIN. SEDESOL's staff was highly qualified, but
there were significant delays in providing basic project information. However, it has to be
recognized that without a regular flow of information from the municipalities, SEDESOL's tasks
were made more difficult to execute and it was not possible to disburse on schedule. With the
change to Ramo 33, the states became the implementing agencies, although institutional
weakness in terms of management effectiveness and lack of experience in monitoring investment
programs was a cause of concern. However, although these entities had not been considered for
this role at the time of project preparation, the new policy called for a much stronger
involvement of sub-national governments, and therefore highlighted the importance to assist
them in implementing this new role.
F. Sustainability
56. The sustainability of the project is judged to be likely, as there is evidence that points to the
continuation of the decentralization process. The Municipal Fund Program zand its successor, the
MSIF, have both been successful and they have become an important vehicle for community
involvement in infrastructure investments, which is key to sustainability.
57. The consolidation of part of the features contained in the Operational MAanual as articles of
the law of Fiscal Coordination is a major achievement regarding the sustainability of the
conceptual approach of the project.
58. A critical area for improvement is the institutional capacity of the states and municipalities.
The states welcomed the Bank's support in the implementation of their regional development
strategies and the opportunity to establish a direct dialogue with the institution. The Bank's
initiatives resulting from a continuous dialogue with the States are expected. to expand, building
on the achievements of this project. A Bank follow-up operation in this area will help to sustain
the benefits accumulated so far. The IDF grant to strengthen the monitoring and auditing
capabilities of the states is a step in the right direction.
G. Bank and Borrower's Performance
Bank
59. Bank performance was up to the task except for some weaknesses iri project design and
supervision. In general, the project was well designed in focusing on fewer sectors. The Bank's
decision to continue with the project despite the operational obstacles and its persistence in



16
searching for viable restructuring options proved to be an important factor in its success. The
Bank was thus able to support institutional development and, to some extent, support the re-
organization of the flow of information from the states under the Social Municipal Infrastructure
Fund of Ramo 33, a function which was not sustained by the federal government.
Lending
60. The identification and preparation phase was facilitated by the success of the earlier project.
Nevertheless, Bank staff worked diligently in terms of the sector work and extensive project
analysis contained in the SAR. On the other hand, the appraisal was not as accurate in its
evaluation of the commitment by SEDESOL to the provision of project information and to the
institutional development program. Part of the problems were attributed to differences of
opinion between the Bank and SEDESOL regarding some of the implementation criteria such as
the ranking of municipalities according to their so-called "development needs," which is not
normally used by the government in targeting the rural poor.
Supervision
61. The complexity of the project made on-going supervision a critical factor.  The
decentralization of the Mexico Department made it possible to keep abreast of project
developments and to meet frequently with the implementing agency. A possible setback was the
turnover in project task managers. From appraisal to closing, the project had four task managers.
This created some bumps along the way, particularly for the Borrower, as each change in task
manager led to a temporary loss of momentum in terms of the implementation. The frequency of
supervision missions was not an issue in the sense that the project was managed out of the
regional office. Nevertheless, more intensive and frequent field supervisions by the Bank may
have been advisable.
Overall Bank Performance
62. After consideration of the above-mentioned factors and of the outcome of the project, the
overall performnance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
63. The commitment of the government to support regional development and decentralization
initiatives went back to the late 1980s with the creation of the Solidarity program. After a
positive outcome for DRD I, the government was very supportive of this follow-up operation and
supported its preparation fully. However, it was the notable shift in decentralization policies that
presented significant challenges to the project. The implementing agency was legally impeded to
respond to the 1998 changes in operational aspects of the project, although it eventually
produced a valuable report on the implementation experience.
Government and Implementing Agency Performance
64. Overall, government performance was satisfactory. However, performance of the
implementing agency was not satisfactory during the initial years of implementation, because of



17
extensive delays in reporting and auditing compliance. This was largely due to the difficulty of
organizing an harmonized and regular flow of information from thousands of communities and
municipalities to the central level. As stated above, the government's strong commitment to
decentralization was instrumental in maintaining the project's momentum and contributing to its
positive outcome. During the transition to Ramo 33, NAFIN was heavily involved in monitoring
and supervision, in view of the absence of SEDESOL as implementing agency. Its participation
was instrumental in the successful restructuring of the project.  However, collection and
coordination of the flow of information from the States remained an issue. SECODAM, while
not empowered under Ramo 33 to supervise the use of public funds by states and municipalities,
was nevertheless helpful in providing technical assistance with field audits.
Overall Borrower Performance
65. After consideration of the above-mentioned factors and of the outcome of the project, the
overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory.
H. Lessons Learned
66. The principal lessons derived from the outcome of this project include the following:
v     lThe follow up to an earlier successful project is likely to also succeed. In the case of
DRD II the very successful Municipal Funds Program introduced during D)RD I provided an
important vehicle for continuation and expansion of the government's decentralization strategy.
*     Unforeseen changes in the external environment can lead to important modifications of
the operational arrangements of a project without necessarily compromising the final outcome.
Persistence, combined with a flexible approach to project implementation and restructuring,
backed by strong Bank's management commitment, can result in a successful outcome.
*     Decentralization of resources for rural development, in the absence of careful supervision
and strengthening of those entities responsible for project planning and implementation, may
compromise the returns on community investments and result in uneven coverage and quality of
the infrastructure services being delivered.
*     The usefulness of simple project design cannot be over-emphasized. A simple and well-
focused project (though very large) has a much greater likelihood of success and of contributing
to national development objectives.
*     The promotion of a participatory approach to the delivery of basic infrastructure will
contribute to a greater understanding of the project benefits, enhancecl maintenance and
sustainability of the investments. The 1998 reform demonstrated that municipalities and state
governments were able to proceed with project implementation in the absence of the federal
agencies previously responsible for it. However, the monitoring and evaluation function, while



18
still carried out at the state level, was largely lost from the federal perspective due to the lack of
central coordination.
*     The possibility for the Bank to continue supporting and financing decentralized programs
under Ramo 33 at the State and Municipal level will require to consider and adjust to the legal,
economic and financial framework that govern the relationship between the three levels of
government.
*     As seen from the Borrower perspective, the project contributed to gathering the following
lessons: (i) the good experience of municipal authorities working together with communities; (ii)
the use of formulas as a non-discretionary way of allocating funds to municipalities; (iii) the
importance to adapt Bank's procedures to prevailing circumstances and to changing strategic
directions; and (iv) the importance to consider monitoring requirement in the context of complex
decentralized projects with a large number of local actors.
*     A major lesson can be derived from the practical problems faced by the project after
1998.  In this new scenario, there is no clear way to implement Bank-financed projects or
programs that address sectoral issues that are being decentralized to local governments. A joint
effort of the federal government and the Bank to study local legislation and institutional
capacities could lead to establish new schemes and procedures to make possible international
financing of relevant decentralized programs.
I. Partner Comments7
SEDESOL's comments
67. The Decentralization and Regional Development Project (DRD II) addressed social
development issues defined in the National Development Plan 1995-2000, emphasizing the
strengthening of the new federalism process promoted by the Federal Executive Branch.
68. In this context, the project accentuated the participation of municipalities and communities,
leading to an increased demand for transfers of Ramo 26 resources to be invested directly by
Municipalities according to the priorities defined by the Municipal Development Councils.
69. This strategy developed a symbiosis: on one hand, with the DRD II the government at its
federal, state and municipal levels promoted the social and microregional development and, on
the other hand, the population obtained tangible benefits by diminishing infrastructure deficits to
improve standards of life, while fostering local economy by using regional materials and local
labor force in the execution of the works, thus mitigating the ancestral poverty that characterizes
the social environment of the project areas.
70. Permanent efforts of coordination by SEDESOL and state governments were required to
achieve these objectives, mainly in the situation created by the change of mayors every three
years, which implies to carry out training actions practically on a permanent basis.
7 The full Completion Report prepared by Sedesol is available upon request. Here reported is a translation of the
Executive Summary.



19
71. The great motivation and participation of rural communities in the implementation of the
project is worth noting. This was made possible thanks to the credibility on the three levels of
government. It resulted in responding to the requests for social and productive works in
thousands of small and disperse localities.
72. It is equally important to mention that the involvement of the municipalities -and mainly of
the beneficiaries-, in the execution of the project, has resulted in lowering time and costs of
execution of the works. For this reason, the DRD II through the MSIF presents an innovative
aspect in the consolidation of the "federalism," which the Mexican goverrinent and the World
Bank can implement in other development projects.
73. For all the above-mentioned, it follows that the success of the DRD II was based on targeting
investments for the population with the highest degree of poverty, who generally inhabits the
rural and indigenous areas. In fact, 61 % of the investment was targeted on. the municipalities
considered of high and very high marginality, and a strategy was implemented to give
preferential attention to those localities outside municipal government seats ("cabeceras").
74. Also, it is worth to point out that the monitoring of investments and follow-up processes
allowed to successfully achieve the disbursement goals, in spite of the devaluation of the
Mexican peso during 1995.
75. In this same order of ideas, it should be noted that although only 295.2 million dollars were
disbursed [under SEDESOL's execution], equivalent to 590%/0 of the 500 million dollars loan, this
was due to the ending of the contract 3790-ME with the World Bank, caused by the transfer, in
1998, of the resources formerly allocated to Ramo 26 to the Municipal Social Infrastructure Fund
of to the newly created Ramo 338.
76. The success of the execution of the DRD II according to the results presented in the report, is
corroborated with the conclusions and recommendations mentioned in the Aide Memoire of the
mid term evaluation mission of the World Bank. Among those conclusions it is worth to
menlion the following ones:
* "a) The organizational arrangement implemented at municipal level, centered in the
Council of Municipal Development and the local Community Committees; b) the opportunity
given to poor peasants to manage investments that improve their conditions of life; c) the social
pressure felt by the local committees to deliver complete works at the smallest cost to their
communities; d) the demonstration effect arnong localities in the same Municipality and among
municipalities, that leads to seek better performance levels; e) the honor that participants of local
committees experience when feeling that they are contributing to improve the opportunities of
life of the future generations in their own communities; and f) the fact that the payments made on
the basis of actual concrete progress in the execution of the works."
* "The diffusion of the MSIF should be promoted with special emphasis in the most isolated
localities. For doing that, among other actions, it is advisable to reinforce the training of the
promoters of COPLADES and SEDESOL."
x Actually, under local governments execution (referred to as Ramo 33), the loan kept on disbursing, up to a total of
470 millions, before closing on 2000.



20
*"The mission considers as positive the performance of the project in general, although
problems still exist. Note that due to the high number and the great dispersion of works, it
becomes difficult to register accurately specific indicators of execution and performance of the
investments."
* "It should also be noted that although the project is definitively contributing to the
reduction of poverty, it is difficult to exactly specify the measure of this impact. However, it
could be enough to say that when the project provides basic infrastructure, it is satisfying high-
priority necessities of the poor with regard to water, electric power and schools, among others."
* "The prioritized goals for the future of the project, in its current consolidation phase, could
be summarized in six main actions: a) to consolidate the social participation of the communities
and of the beneficiaries; b) to promote and support the execution inside the MSIF of inter-
municipal works such as rural roads, to facilitate the development of the rural production through
better connections with markets and better conditions of rural transport; c) to improve the
monitoring system and to develop easier indicators for both the project and Ramo 26; d) to
consider the inclusion in the project of urban municipalities that have necessities of basic
services, and to foster social participation in the development of the MSIF in the cities; e) to look
for mechanisms to guarantee an efficient maintenance and operation of the infrastructure; and f)
to develop and implement a systematic program to support the institutional development of
municipalities and communities."



21
K. Annexes
Annex 1 Key Performance Indicators
a) Output Indicators: number of sub-projects
Indicator                 Projected Ln SAR/PAD   Aciua/Latest Estimate*
MUNICIPAL FUNDS (Total)                            40,000               106,427
*  Escuela Digna                                   20,000                10,991
*  Potable water                                    1,300                12,344
*  Rural roads                                      1,560                10,203
*  Support to production                                                 9,056
*  Schools                                                               17,431
*  Electrification                                                       7,027
*  Sewage systems                                                        7,457
*  Pavement                                                              7,322
*  Urbanization                                                          8,661
*  Housing                                                               5,219
*  Health centers                                                        1,768
*  Sports infrastructure                                                 2,371
*  Community services                                                    3,347
*  Others                                                                3,230
POTABLE WATER                                                      _
*  Construction                                                           35
*  Enhancement                                                             13
*  Rehabilitation                                                          14
RURAL ROADS
*  Rehabilitation                                   1,388                 164
*  Maintenance                                                            36
* Data for 1995-1997 only. From 1998 on, there are no statistics available



22
b) Disbursement: geo2raphical indicators
DISBURSEMENTS
Millions of Dollars
STATE              1994-97           1998-2000             Total
CHIAPAS                   63.8                                   63.8
GUERRERO                  36.2                13.2               49.4
HIDALGO                   43.6                                   43.6
MICHOACAN                 32.2                                   32.2
OAXACA                    34.9                                   34.9
PUEBLA                    49.9                41.6               91.5
VERACRUZ                  78.7                29.7               108.4
ZACATECAS                 13.7                30.2               43.9
SEDESOL                    2.8                                    2.8
TOTAL                     355.9              114.7               470.6
c) Disbursement: component indicators
DISBURSEMENTS
Million dollars
Original              Actual
Municipal Funds                    308.5                465.5
Roads and water                    146.5                 2.4
Income generation                   9.0                  0.0
SEDESOL                            23.0                  2.8
Unallocated                        13.0                  29.3
.__ __ __ __ __ __ __ _   500.0     500.0



23
d) Disbursements: by categories (thousands of dollars)
Category                 Original          Real
Municipal Funds
* Works under direct contracting    236,500         463,589.7
* Construction materials             10,000             0
* Goods (different from               8,000           577.3
construction materials),
* Technical assistance and training  27,000          1,318.8
Rural Roads and Water
* Works under direct contracting     40,000          2,409.1
* Works other than direct            90,000
contracting                   ___
* Goods                              2,000
* Engineering services                6,500
* Technical assistance and training   8,000
Income zeneration
+ Works                               3,000             0
* Goods                               1,000             0
* Technical assistance and training   5,000            1.1
Institutional Development SEDESOL
* Goods                              2,000            75.3
* Consultants (long term)            13,000          1,699.5
* Technical assistance and training   5,000           635.1
* Audits                              3,000           357.2
Non allocated/Unused                  13,000           29.3
Total                                500,000         500,000



24
Annex 2 Proiect Costs and Financing
a) Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Component        Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest       Percentage of
Estimate           Aporaisal
Municipal Funds                      336.5              465.5               138.3%
Rural Roads and Water                142.0               2.4                 1.7%
Income generation                     5.5                0.0                 0.0%
Institutional Development             3.0                2.8                93.3%
SEDESOL
Unallocated/Unused                   13.0                29.3               225.4%
b) Proiect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure           Procurement Method                   Procurement Method
Cateories             ADraisa Estimate                    ActlLatest Estimate
ICB    NCB   Direct  NBF   Total   ICB   NCB    Direct   NBF   Total
I Works                80    882             962                   466.0
2 Goods                16     20             36                     0.6
3 Services                    97             97                     4.1
4 Misc.                                            _
Total                  96    999             1095                  470.7
c) Disbursements: timing
Year (calendar)            Programmed (millions)            Actual (millions)
1995                          80.0                           112.9
1996                          91.0                           58.8
1997                          116.0                          85.3
1998                          147.0                          98.9
1999                          66.0                            0.0
2000                           0.0                           114.7
Total                         500.0                          470.7



25
d) Proiect Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                Appraisal estimate        Actual/Latest           Percenitage of
. _    _                                              aiEt  r nateasal
Bak  1=lvm    C Ok                GX_           w          0V-
mnt                    mi n     S              m.en
Municipal Funds           281.5       152.8      465.5       231.6      165.37%     151.6%
Rural Roads and Water     138.5       136.7       2.4         2.4        1.74%       1.8%
Income Generation          4.0         3.1        0.0         0.0        0.00%       0.0%
Institutional             63.0         1.7        2.8         0.2        4.39%       9.3%
Development                                                                      .
Miscellaneous/Unused       13.0                   29.3                  225.38%
TOTAL   500.0                        294.3      500.0       234.2               .  79.6%



26
Annex 3. Cost Benefit Analysis
NOT APPLICABLE



27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Site Visits
'.       5=e of ProjM t/erycles a r                                          -              R
irnpkpientation    Development
_______________________________      ProR ess         O jec ive
Identification/Preparation    _                                  _                 _
Appraisal/Negotiations
Supervision                Feb-95          4 (Institutional Development,          JHS              HS
Participation, 2 Engineers)
Dec-95         3 (Portfolio Manager, 2 Engineers)      S                 S
May-97         6 (Mission Leader, 2 Engineers,         lJ               U
Financial, Environmental, Social)
Feb-98         6 (Mission Leader, Sector Leader,       U                 S
Sector Manager, 2 Engineers,
Financial)
Aug-98         6 (Mission Leader, Sector Manager,      UI                S
Engineer, Financial, Procurement,
Monitoring)
Dec-99         7 (Mission Leader, Sector Leader,        S                S
Sector Manager, Monitoring,
Procurement, Financial.,
Institutional)
Jun-00         5 (Mission Leader, Sector Leader,       S                 S
Monitoring, Financial,
Institutional)
ICR                        Jun-00          5 (Mission Leader, Sector Leader,
Monitoring, Financial,
Institutional)
Sep-00
3 (Mission Leader, Writer of ICR,
Institutional)
b) Staff
StgAt of Project Cycle                         /Ac/    t Estimage
Staff weeks         .
Identification/Pre aration                   87.7                           196.4
ApRsae a                                     54.6                            131.5
Supervision                                 295.2                           680.9
ICR                                          13.0                            29.8
Total                                       450.5                           1,038.6



28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives /Outputs by Components
Objectivesotuts       Hi         Hatfac                                     Not Unsatsfactory   : h  Not
:________________    Satsar0X:yL :___ _:__     Unsatisfactory  uAlicable
Macro Poiis                      ______X
Sector Policies                      X
Physical                              X
Financial                        _____                                       X
Institutonal                          X
Development
Envimronmental                   _____X
Perty Reduction                     X
Gender            _                                                         X
QLhLr LSR__   _ _i_f)                                                       x
Private Sector                                                               X
Development                                                                 _
Public Setor                          X
Manement
Other (spcif_)



29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
i                                        U      aSatisfactor    Unsatisfactorv
Bank Pe_fornance      _             _
Lending                                  X              _
Supervision          _                   X
Overal                                   X
Borrower Perfomance:                      _
Praration                                X                   _
Govern  tx
IMplementation
Performance
Oyerall                                  X                   _-



30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report: Report 13032-ME August 1994
2. Loan and Guarantee Agreements: October 1994
Amendment I April 1998
Amendment II November 1999
3. Supervision Missions Aide Memoires
4. Project Status Reports # 1 to 14
5. SEDESOL: Evaluaci6n sobre la sostenibilidad de las Inversiones del Fondo de
Desarrollo Social Municipal. April 1998
6. SEDESOL: Reporte de Conclusi6n del Proyecto 1995-1997



