Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13032-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
mEico
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 19, 1994
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =        Mexican New Peso (N$)
US$1               =        N$3.37
N$1 million        =        US$296,735
(June 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)               =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =      0.62 mile (mi)
I hectare (ha)            =      10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer (km)    =     0.38 square miles (m?) = 100 ha
I metric ton (m ton)       =     2,205 pounds



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS            National Public Works Bank (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios)
CDS                 Social Development Agreement (Convenio de Desarrollo Social)
CNA                 National Water Cornmission (Comisi6n Nacional del Agua)
CONAPO              National Population Council (Consejo Nacional de Poblaci6n)
CONASUPO            National Food Supplies Company (Compafi(a Nacional de Substancias Populares)
COPLADE             State Planning Commission (Comite para la Plant  del Desarrollo)
DRD                 Decentralization and Regional Development (Descentr, '-aci6n y Desarrollo Regional)
ED                  School Rehabilitation Program (Escuela Digna)
FONAES              National Solidarity Business Fund (Fondos Nacionales de Empresas de Solidaridad)
FMS                 Municipal Funds Program (Fondos Municipales de Solidaridad)
FRS                 Indigenous Regional Fund (Fondos Regionales de Solidaridad)
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
ICB                 Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDB                 Interamerican Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de DesarroUo)
INEGI               National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Information
anstituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografta e lqformdtica)
INI                 National Indigenous Institute (anstituto Nacional Indigenista)
ITG                 Interstate Technical Group
LCB                 Local Competitive Bidding
MES                 Women in Solidarity (Mujeres en Solidaridad)
MSC                 Municipal Solidarity Council
MSU                 Municipal Support Unit
MPWG                 Municipal Presidents Worling Group
NAFIN               National Finance Institution (Nacional Financiera, S. N.C.)
NGO                 Nongovernmental Organization
O&M                 Operation and Maintenance



OECD                 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PIDER                Integrated Rural Development Program (Programa Integral para el Desarrollo Rural)
PLANAT               National Assistance Plan for Rainfed Areas (Plan Nacional para la Agriculkura
Temporal)
PPE                  Project Physical Performance Evaluation
PROCAMPO             Trade Liberalization and Direct Producer Income Support Program
PRODERITH            Program for the Development of Humid Tropica (Programa de DesarroUo Rural
Integral para el Tr6pico Humedo)
SARH                 Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (Secretarfa de Agricufrura y
Recursos Hidrdulicos)
SHCP                 Secretariat for Finance and Public Credit (Secretarfa de Hacienda y Credito Pdblico)
SCT                  Federal Highway Administration (Secretarfa de Comunicaciones y Transportes)
SECOGEF              General Secretariat of Comptroller of the Federation (Secretarfa de la Contralorfa
General de la Federaci6n)
SEDESOL              Secrtariat of Social Development (Secretarfa de DesarroUo Social)
SOLIDARITY           National Solidarity Program
SWA                  State Water Agency
SRA.                 State Road Agency
TOR                  Terms of Reference



MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .........................                                              i
I.  RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION IN MEXICO .1
A. Poverty in Mexico .
B. Decentralization .2
C. Regional Equity .4
D.  Poverty Alleviation and the National Solidarity Program .4
E. RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION STRATEGY .                                           7
A. Introduction.                                                                         7
B.  SEDESOL's Strategy for Strengthening Capacity of Rural Municipalities.               7
C. SEDESOL's Strategy for Rural Water Supply .9
D.  SEDESOL's Strategy for Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance .10
E.   SEDESOL's Pilot Strategies to Increase Income Earning Potential .11
F. Lessons Learned from Past Operations .14
HII. THE PROJECT .16
A. Origin of the Project .16
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement            ..16
C. Project Objectives              ..17
D. Project Description and Components           ..19
1. Overview of Institutional Aspects .19
2.  Municipal Investment and Institutional Development Component .20
3. Rural Water Supply Component .24
4.  Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component .27
5. Income-Generating Component .30
6.  SEDESOL Institutional Strengthening and Project Coordination .30
E. Environmental Assessment              ..31
F. Poverty Category                ..31
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission which visited Mexico in
February-March 1994. The mission was composed of Messrs./Mmes. Andrea Silverman (Tak
Manager), Jean Claude Sallier, Fernando Aguilar, Maria Correia, John Glenn, Victoria Rodriguez,
Sergei Soares, and Rudy Van Puymbroeck. Peer reviewers are Messrs. Hans Binswanger, Tun
Campbell, Jean Delion, and Antonio Pereira. The Division Chief is Michael Baxter and the
Department Director is Edilberto Segura.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
G.  Project Costs and Financing ...................................... 32
1. Costs ...........................................                         32
2. Financing ...........................................     32
H. Project Organization and Management        ..32
1. Implementing Agencies .32
2. Procurement .37
3. Disbursements .40
4. Accounts and Audits .43
5. Monitoring of Project Implementation and Bank Supervision .43
6. Project Physical Performance Evaluations and Mid-term Review .44
I.   Project Benefits and Economic Evaluation              ..                     45
J.   Participation of Indigenous Groups and Women             ..                  46
K.  Project Risks ............................................... 47
IV.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................... 47
ANNEES
ANNEX A       Socio-oconomic Data for Mexico and eight Project States
ANNEX B       Project Costs
ANNEX C       Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
ANNEX D       SEDESOL Strengthening and Project Coordination Component
ANNEX E       Application of Lessons Learned from the first DRD Project
ANNEX         Municipal Investment and Strengthening Component
ANNEX 0       Rural Water Supply Component
ANNEX H       Rural Roads and Maintenance Component
ANNEX I       Income-Generating Component
ANNEX J       Supervision Plan
ANNEX K       Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
ANNEX L       Government Policy Letter
ANNEX M       List of Documents in the Project File
MAPS:
IBRD No. 25680: Mexico - Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project. Project States.
IBRD No. 25681: Mexico - State of Chiapas. Second Decentralization and Regional Development
Project. Rural and Urban Municipalities Participating in Municipal
Funds Program
IBRD No. 25682: Mexico - State of GuMr=ero. Socond Decentralization and Regional Development
Project. Rural and Urban Municipalities Participating in Municipal
Funds Program
IBRD No. 25683: Mexico - State of Hidalgo. Second Decentralizaion and Regional Development
Project. Rural and Urban Municipalities Participating in Municipal
Funds Program
IBRD No. 25684: Mexico - State of Michoacan. Second Decentralization and Regional Development
Project. Rural and Urban Municipalities Participating in Municipal
Funds Program



IBRD No. 25685: Mexico - State of Oaxaca. Second Decentralization and Regional Development
Project. Rural and Urban Municipalities Participating in Municipal
Funds Program
IBRD No. 25686: Mexico - State of Puebla. Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project.
Rural and Urban Municipalities Participating in Municipal Funds
Program
IBRD No. 25687: Mexico - State of Veracruz. Second Decentralization and Regional Development
Project. Rural and Urban Municipalities Participating in Municipal
Funds Program
IBRD No. 25688: Mexico - State of Zacatecas. Second Decentralization and Regional Development
Project. Rural and Urban Municipalities Participating in Municipal
Funds Program






MEXCO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Executing Agencies:  Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social (SEDESOL); Municipalities; Water Supply,
Rural Roads and Agriculture Agencies of the eight states of Chiapas,
Guerrero, Hidalgo, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, Veracruz, and Zacatecas.
Beneficiaries:      Poor communities of the eight project states, including a total population of
25.9 million and a primary target of 14.4 million rural population.
Loan Amount:        US$500 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including a five-year grace period, at the standard
variable rate.
Project Objectives:   The overall objective of the project is to increase access of rural poor and
indigenous communities to basic social and economic infrastructure (especially
roads, water supply and schools), and to income-generating activities and thus
alleviate poverty. The project would continue efforts initiated under the first
Decentralization and Regional Development (DRD) project to strengthen the
participation of poor, rural communities in local government investment
planning and implementation and to strengthen the institutional capacity of
state and local governments to support rural development efforts. The specific
objectives are to: (a) improve basic infrastructure and support income-
generating investments in poor rural areas of the eight states; (b) strengthen
institutional mechanisms and capacity at the federal and state levels to plan,
supervise, monitor, and evaluate rural water supply, rural roads and other
rural development strategies with the participation of municipalities and
beneficiary communities; and (c) strengthen the capacity of rural and semi-
rural municipalities to finance, plan, implement, and operate rural
infrastructure investments, using appropriate technologies and participation of
affected communities.
Project Components: The project would have five components:
(a)    Municipal Investment and Institutional Development (US$737
million). This component would finance small-scale community
selected and managed works, for water supply development, rural
roads, school rehabilitation, productive activities, and other small
infrastructure works of priority to rural communities, through
SEDESOL's Municipal Funds and school rehabilitation (Escuela



-ii -
Digna) programs. The component would also develop the fiscal,
administrative and technical capacity of rural and semi-rural
municipalities, through studies, technical assistance, training, and
support for legislative and regulatory reforms at the state level.
Individual infrastructure investments in this component would not
exceed US$50,000. Communities would be required to provide 20%
of total project cost in cash or kind. Approximately 54,000 small
investments would be implemented in the eight states under the
project.
(b)    Rural Water Supply (US$178 million). This component would
provide potable water to small rural localities (between 500 and 5,000
inhabitants), by financing investments whose technical complexity and
cost make them inappropriate or ineligible for the Municipal Funds
program. The component would also improve the capacity of state
water agencies and municipalities to manage water supply investment
and operations and maintenance efficiently and effectively.
Subprojects would be selected and contracted by state water agencies,
using established investment selection criteria and standard parameters
for engineering design. The average water supply sub-project
investment would be approximately US$120,000, with approximately
1,300 rural water supply systems to be constructed or rehabilitated
under the project.
(c)    Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$133 million).
This component would finance the rehabilitation and maintenance of
priority sections of the rural roads network, while developing the
capacity of state road agencies and municipalities to do so efficiently
and effectively. Rehabilitation investmnents would be managed by state
road agencies, selected based on an established set of criteria, and
designed according to standard engineering parameters and costing on
average US$7,000 per kilometer. Municipalities and communities
would have an active role in implementation, with labor intensive
works contracted to municipalities through inter-governmental
agreements. A municipal maintenance program to cover roads
rehabilitated would also be financed. Approximately 15,600 km of
rural roads would be improved and included in a municipal
maintenance program under the project.
(d)   Income-generating Component (US$12 million). This component
would provide technical assistance, training, and limited investment to
develop and pilot new strategies to support income-generating projects
in rural areas, by strengthening income-generating activities in the
Municipal Funds program and by supporting the development of
income-generating programs by state agriculture agencies in one or
two pilot states.



-4ii -
(e)    SEDESOL Institutional Development and Project Coordination
(US$35 million). SEDESOL's capacity to manage the project-
financed programs would be strengthened. Financing would be
provided for a program of institutional development technical
assistance and training, contracting of technical expertise required for
the supervision and review of each component, and continued
development of the project information and monitoring system.
Annual project audits would also be financed.
Benefits:           Project investments would result in an improved standard of living for
approximately 10 million individuals living in relatively isolated rural areas,
with the improvement of access roads, water supply, educational and other
basic infrastructure. The rural water supply component investments will result
in raising access to water of rural population in the eight states from 48
percent to 63 percent. Of the 50,000 kilometers of earthen, rural roads in the
eight states, 29 percent (or 15,600 km) will receive spot improvement and
maintenance, resulting in greater access of approximately 4 million rural
dwellers to social services and economic activities. Approximately 10 million
individuals are expected to benefit from the estimated 60,000 Municipal Funds
and Escuela Digna investments to be implemented during the project. More
importantly, the project will strengthen the capacity of municipal government
and communities to work together to define and address priority needs in poor
rural areas.
ERR:                 Not applicable, as the project finances small economic and social
infrastructure in poor rural areas, depending either on community participation
mechanisms or subproject eligibility criteria to ensure selection of high
priority and least cost solutions.
Risks:              Possible risks arise from: (a) the relatively weak institutions at state and
municipal levels, sometimes leading to insufficient technical input in
subproject selection and design; (b) number of institutions involved in project
execution leading to overly heavy supervision burden; and (c) the extent to
which general criticisms of Solidarity may reflect on the credibility of the
project. To address these risks, the project limits investment to technically
simple, but highly economic works (e.g., spot improvement of roads, small
water supply schemes, etc.) for which simple selection criteria have been
designed and agreed during project preparation. In addition, targeted
programs of technical assistance have been designed for each project
component to strengthen the state line agencies. To make project supervision
easier and improve the project management, inter-state technical groups would
be formed and would meet quarterly. In addition, the number of sectors to be
supported by the Second DRD project has been reduced from ten covered in
the first DRD project, to four, with strict criteria for subproject eligibility.
The computerized monitoring system deve!oped during the first DRD project
would continue to be upgraded by SEDESOL and used to provide timely
analysis of implementation progress and issues in each state. To maintain the
credibility of the project, the project will use clear and rational sets of



-iv -
subproject selection criteria, and will monitor implementation closely,
analyzing for possible biasing of investments based on other than poverty and
efficiency criteria.
Poverty Category:    PA - Poverty Alleviation; Program of Targeted Interventions. Project
investments will be targeted to the poor rural areas of eight of the poorest
states of Mexico. Targeting to the rural poor will be achieved through: (a)
the kinds of projects financed (e.g., small, inexpensive projects for water
supply, earthen roads, and school classrooms); (b) implementation by
community groups, avoiding the selection of investments not responsive to
community priorities; (c) payment of laborers for rural road rehabilitation and
maintenance works, resulting in employment generation for the poor; and (d)
distribution of resources by formula to provide greater funding to poor rural
areas. Indigenous communities and women's groups are to be specifically
targeted within the income-generating component.



-V -
Estimated Project Financing by Componenti
(US$ Million)
Project Components            |    Local        Foreign      Total
I. Municipal Investment & Institutional Dev.       549         149          697
II. Rural Water Supply                             120          49          168
m. Rural Roads Rehabilitation & Maintenance         92          34          125
IV. Income-Generating Component                      8           3           12
V. SEDESOL Inst. Strength. & Project Coord.         27           6           33
Total Baseline Costs                               796         240         1036
Price Contingencies                                 45          14           59
Total Project Costs                                841         254         109S
-   _Financing Plan            1     Local    1'Foreign_    Total
IBRD                                               246       .254           S00
Federal and State Governments                      443           0          443
Beneficiaries                                      152           0          152
Total                                              841         254         109S
1 Figurs nay not add up due to rounding.



-vi -
Estimated Project Financing by Componentli/2
(US$ Million)
SEDESOL  | Benefici-   Total -% Total
Component            IBRD      and State  |  aries  I            Base
Governments |         j            Cost
I. Municipal Inv.fInst.       299         266         133       697      67%
Investment                265         265          133      663
Tech. Assist./Inst. Dev.   33            1          -        34
H. Rural Water Supply          81          78          10       168      16%
Investment                 78          78          10       165
Institutional Dev.          3           012         -         3 
m. Rural Roads                 64          61          -        125      12%
Spot Improvement           55          55           -       109
Municipal Maintenance       6           6           -        12
Institutional Dev.          4           0           -         4
IV. Income-generating           8           2           1        12       1%
Component
Investment                  2           2           1         6
Institutional Dev.          5           0                     6
V. SEDESOL Strengthen.         21          12          -         33       3%
& Project Coord.
Total Baseline Cost           473         419         144      1036      100%
Price Contingencies            27          24           8        59
Total                         500         443         152      1095
Estimated Disbursements (USSmillion):
Bank FY            I l99 1997        1m22      1     9 1
Annual              8012     91       116       147      66
Cumulative          80       171      287      434       500
/Fiures may not add up due to rounding.
2/Less than .5 is rounded to 0.
3/lncludes an initial deposit to the Special Account of USS40 million and up to USS40 million in retroactive financing for
eligible expenditures incurred after Febnrary 1, 1994.



MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECr
I. RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION IN MEXCO
A. Poverty in Mexico
1.1    As Mexico joins the OECD and gradually moves into the ranks of the industrialized countries,
poverty remains a major problem affecting almost half of its population. Mexico's National Statistics
and Geographical Information Institute (INEGI) estimated that in 1992, 44 percent of Mexico's 84
million people were living in poverty, with 16 percent living in conditions of extreme poverty.
Although the majority of Mexico's population (66%) live in urban areas, extreme poverty continues
to be disproportionately a rural phenomenon, whose impact is greatest on the country's indigenous
people. In 1992, INEGI estimated that 56 percent of the extreme poor lived in rural areas' and were
engaged in agricultural activities. The eight disadvantaged states, which are the focus of the proposed
project, include 32 percent of Mexico's population, but contain approximately 54 percent of its poor
and 69 percent of its extreme poor.2
1.2   Poverty increased dramatically in Mexico with the onset of the 1982 macroeconomic crisis, as
per capita GDP and public expenditures declined considerably. Between 1982 and 1988, real per
capita GDP dropped by 10 percent from US$4,162 to US$3,723. Federal expenditures dropped by S
percent while rural development expenditures (excluding social sector expenditures) dropped by 38
percent between 1983 and 1989. Reflecting the overall decrease in expenditures, targeted poverty
alleviation programs developed in the 1970s (including the Bank-supported Integrated Rural
Development Program, PIDER, 1975-1988) were severely curtailed. As a result, from 1984 to 1989,
INEGI estimates that the total number of poor grew from 30 million to 38 million, while the
population living in extreme poverty grew from 11 million to 15 million.
1.3   Since 1989, the overall economy has begun to recover and per capita GDP has risen slightly
to US$3,961 in 1992, although it still remains below its 1982 level. In addition, expenditures on
health, education and poverty programs have increased sharply and the rate of extreme poverty in
Mexico has declined almost to its 1984 level. Nevertheless, regional differences remain very strong,
with the poverty rate in the poorest states being ten times that of richer states. The greatest
differences are seen between the states of the center and north which are either industrialized or have
large expanses of irrigated agriculture and those of the southeast which have little industrial
development and depend on rainfed agriculture. Regional differences are also clearly apparent in
illiteracy rates, infant mortality, access to potable water supply, and other basic services (see Annex
A).
1. Based on INEGI analysis of 1992 Household Survey; for the purposes of this survey,
rral ares are defined as areas where no locality exceeds 15,000 population. All other uses
of the term umi in this report refer to individuals living in localities of 5,000 or less
popubtion.
2. These figures ae based on World Bank analysis of the 1989 INEGI Household surv.



1.4    Rural poverty has been aggravated by the low level of growth and productivity in the
agriculture sector. GDP growth in the sector has been very uneven, averaging 2 percent since 1983,
while the productivity of agricultural labor has also remained poor, improving only marginally during
the last three decades. During the past decade, agricultural profitability has declined with the removal
of many input and output subsidies combined with the decline in world prices for many crops. It is
not yet clear what immediate impact the recent ejido land reform will have on rural poverty, as gains
are expected to be seen over the long term and principally in the more productive regions of the
country. The phased elimination of the guarantee price supports for maize and beans in exchange for
direct income payments to producers (the PROCAMPO program) will extend benefits to poor farmers
who previously did not have a market surplus. Again, because this program was only recently
initiated, the extent of its impact on poverty it is not yet clear how much impact it will have on rural
poverty. Moreover, the elimination of guarantee support prices and the shift to equivalent wvrld
market prices under NAFTA may possibly have a short-term, negative impact on the sector and
reduce the demand for rural labor.
1.5    The Mexican Government under the Salinas administration is addressing the issues of poverty
alleviation and development of poor regions using several strategies. During the past five years it
has: (a) begun to reorient agricultural research and services to place higher priority on rainfed
agriculture; (b) increased decentralization of investments and services, strengthening the participation
of state and municipal government and communities; (c) modified the fbrmula for distributing federal
revenue sharing, making the per capita distribution more equitable and increasing resources going to
poorer states; and (d) provided new sources of public investment targeted to poor areas through
regional development programs and the reorientation of social sector investments in health and
education. The reorientation of public investment in agriculture is being addressed in the Agriculture
Technology Project (Ln. 3465-ME, 1992) and in the recently signed Rainfed Areas Development
Project (Ln. 3778-ME, 1994). The improved poverty targeting of educational and health services is
addressed in the Second Primary Education Project (Ln. 3722-ME, 1994), the Initial Education
Project (Ln. 3518-ME, 1993), and the Basic Health Project (Ln. 3272-ME, 1991). The following
sections summarize Government's poverty alleviation efforts as they relate to increasing
decentralization, improved regional equity in resource transfers, and the use of the National Solidarity
Program ('Solidarity') to carry out poverty alleviation activities across sectors.
B Decentralization
1.6   In spite of being a federated system, national govermnent in Mexico collects and manages the
greatest share of public resources. Currently, the federal government (excluding the Federal District)
collects approximately 93 percent of aggregate public sector revenue from taxation and users fees, of
which approximately 15 percent is transferred back to the 31 states and municipalities' through
revenue-sharing. The largest source of state revenue in all states comes from federal revenue-sharng
(79%), with only 5 percent coming from taxation, 4 percent from user fees, and 12 percent from all
other sources.
1.7   Increasing decentralization and strengthening the authority and capacity of state and local
government to manage public finance, establish investment priorities and provide services have been a
3. Municipalities are local jurisdictions which are often a mixture of runal and urban areas;
they ae similar to 'districts, or counties' in other countrieL.



central goal of the last two presidential administrations of Miguel de la Madrid and Carlos Salinas.
The goal of decentralization has been to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of public services,
and to provide greater opportunity for citizen participation. During the past decade these
administrations have taken several important steps in this direction, including: (a) the constitutional
reform of 1983 increasing the authority and responsibility of locally elected municipal governments;
(b) deconcentration of federal agencies; (c) increased use of coordinated investments by federal
agencies with state governments; and (d) actual devolution of responsibilities in some sectors to state
agencies and local governments.
1.8    The sweeping constitutional reform of Article 115 in 1983 gave municipalities responsibility
for providing water supply and sewage, streets, public lighting, sanitation, and slaughterhouses, and
for collecting and retaining property taxes and user fees for such services. In practice, however, most
municipalities remain dependent on state government for financial, technical and administrative
support, and must receive State Congress approval for municipal budgets, establishment of local tax
rates and tariffs, and other local laws. State governments continue to collect local property taxes on
behalf of most municipalities. For rural municipalities, property taxes, however, are not a significant
source of revenue, and these municipalities depend on monthly revenue sharing transfers received
from the state for approximately 90 percent of their revenue.
1.9    Some progress in strengthening municipalities has been made, however, in the ten years since
the 1983 constitutional reforms. For larger, more urbanized municipalities, local initiative combined
with technical assistance provided by the private sector, the National Public Works Bank
(BANOBRAS) and the National Water Commission (CNA) have resulted in better local revenue
generation through property tax collection and increased cost recovery for municipal services. For
rural municipalities, the principal support has been provided through the municipal programs of
Solidarity as well as efforts of the State Secretaries of Finance, supported in part by the first
Decentralization and Regional Development (DRD) project (Ln. 3310-ME, 1990) (see paras. 2.3 to
2.6).
1.10   Since 1984, there have been reductions in the size of the federal bureaucracy and reforms
designed to increase the role of state and local governments in the allocation of resources within an
overall regulatory framework provided by the federal agencies. First, the input of state and local
governments in the allocation of federal resources was expanded. The federal government increased
its use of coordinated investmnent programs, investments which are agreed with state government and
where the state provides a share of the financing. This, when combined with the initiation of the
Solidarity federal-state matching grant program at the end of 1989 (see paras. 1.15 to 1.24), means
that state governments now have a much greater influence regarding and, potentially, accountability
for the investments that are made in their states. Second, state and municipal authorities are gradually
receiving more direct responsibility for and autonomy over public investment and services in certain
sectors. In education, the states are assuming the primary responsibility for many functions in the
sector, and federal resources are being transferred to the states to cover these expenditures. For
water supply, local semi-autonomous water companies, established at a municipal level, are now
managing systems previously managed by CNA. In the road sector, state road administrations have
been established to manage the network of secondary roads recently transferred to the states from the
Federal Highway Administration (SCr). In addition, authority over rural roads is to be transferred
from the federal to state governments, although this transfer has been delayed in most states due to a
disagreement between the tuo regarding the transfer of federal resources to states for maintenance and
rehabilitation.



- 4 -
1.11   The result of this decentralization effort is that state governments now have much more
influence, and in some cases direct control, over public investment and services in their states.
Municipal govermnents, particularly in the better-off states, are also beginning to assume greater
responsibility for local services. While these changes do not guarantee improvements in the public
sector, they are an important step toward more responsive and efficient government.
C. Regional Equity
1.12   Prior to 1990, federal revenue sharing was distributed to states based on a fbrmula negotiated
at the time of the tax act of 1980 (Ley de Coordinacion Fiscal), based on their individual tax
collection efforts. The result of this formula was that the poorer states received, on average, one-
third the per capita amount received by richer states. To provide greater equity, the Ley de
Coordinacidn Fiscal was revised in 1989 in a way that would result in the redistribution of resources
from richer to poorer states. Forty-five percent of the funds would be distributed according to the
total state population, another 45 percent would be distributed according to the historically determined
formula adjusted each year to reflect changes in state tax collection effort, while the remaining
amount would be distributed in an inverse proportion to the state's participation in the other two
components of the formula (population and tax collection). The stepwise implementation of this
fDrmula resulted in a 64 percent real increase in federal transfers to the four poorest states (Chiapas,
Guerrero, Hidalgo, and Oaxaca) during the period of 1989 to 1992, while the remaining states
received an average increase of 20 percent over the same period. The overall effect this reform has
been that the ratio of transfers to the 3 richest entities4 as compared to the 6 poorest states has been
reduced from 3:1 in 1989 to 2:1 in 1992. Such differences will be reduced further in the 1994 fiscal
year, when this new formula comes completely into effect.
1.13   Federally financed capital investments in the states are nearly twice that of revenue-sharing
funds, and unlike those funds, are not formula-driven. On a per capita basis, the disparity in federal
investment received among states is great, with a few states and the Federal District receiving three
times the average level of investment per capita of the rest of the states combined. This has a
significant effect as 70 percent of all public investmnents in the states are federal.
1.14 In the allocation of both revenue-sharing and federal investment, there is a great need for
further reforms which would: (a) increase the resources managed diecly by states and municipalities
either by increasing transfers, or, preferably, reforming the tax assignment structure in order to
increase revenues collected by these levels; and (b) direct greater resources to the poorer states to
meet their greater needs for basic social and economic infrastructure and to compensate for lack of a
strong tax base. It is also anticipated that, as Mexico increases the decentralization of the functions of
its central line ministries, related transfers will necessarily become formula-driven, based on a
measure of need for services and local ability to py for them.
D. Poverty Alleviation and the National Solidarity Program
1.15   Mexico has a wide-ranging experience in poverty alleviation efforts. In rural and regional
development programs, Mexico's experience includes the Bank-assisted PIDER projects (1975-1988),
the National Assistance Plan for Rainfed Areas (PLANAT, Ln. 1945-ME, 1980) the Program for the
4. Tle sAab of Nuew Le6n and Baja Califomia and the Federal District.



- 5 -
Development of Humid Tropics (PRODERITH I and II, Lns. 1553-ME and 2658-ME, 1978 and
1986, respectively), and now the National Solidarity program, which receives support from the first
DRD project.
1.16   The National Solidarity Program has been the central effort of the current government to
reduce poverty and to address the gap in social services that had widened in the 1980s; it was initiated
by President Salinas at the beginning of his administration in December 1988. Solidarity is managed
by the Social Development Secretariat (SEDESOL) and funded through a single federal budget line
(Ramo 26) which is combined with state funds based on the annual Social Development Agreement
(CDS) signed every year by SEDESOL with each state. The CDS establishes the broad framevwrk
for federal-state cooperation, within which budgetary allocations for each Solidarity program and
specific investments are agreed between SEDESOL and the state Planning Committee (COPLADEs)
each year.
1.17    Solidarity includes over 30 different sub-programs to target health, education, nutrition,
employment, infrastructure, and income-generating projects to the poor. Federal financing for
Solidarity, provided as a grant to states and municipalities, has grown from US$500 million in 1989
to US$2.2 billion in 1993, with each state government adding from 25 percent to 50 percent as
counterpart finance. For large infrastructure projects, Solidarity funds are mixed with credit provided
by national development banks (BANOBRAS and NAFIN), either to municipalities or to producers'
organizations.
1.18   What distinguishes Solidarity investments from those financed by the budgets of federal or
state line agencies are the following set of principles and guidelines: (a) community participation in
project selection and implementation through Solidarity Committees; (b) poverty targeting; (c)
decentralization and shared responsibility for Solidarity programs with state and municipal
governments; and (d) sharing of program costs among the federal government, states, municipalities,
and beneficiary communities. While these concepts are central to Solidarity, how they are applied
varies among the different Solidarity programs.
1.19 Although Solidarity covers a broad range of investments, it is not by itself a comprehensive
poverty alleviation program. Rather, the individual Solidarity programs are often designed to
complement and strengthen normal sector investments. In education, for example, Solidarity has
provided at least US$600 million in additional financing for the rehabilitation and construction of
educational facilities in poor communities since 1989. It has also financed a program of small grants
to individual poor students (Nflos en Solidaridad). In health, Solidarity funds have been used to
rehabilitate or build and equip new health posts, but not to provide medical services. In water supply
and drainage, Solidarity has provided additional financing to responsible line agencies, targeted to
poor urban neighborhoods and rural areas.
1.20 Solidarity is also supporting investment in agriculture through a number of distinct programs.
It is providing financing for agriculture-related investments identified by the COPLADEs and
implemented by state and federal agencies. Although the total investment is small compared to the
investment programs managed by the Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources (SARH),
Solidarity funds constitute a significant portion of state investment in agriculture in the four DRD
project states. In addition, Solidarity supports investments in income-generating projects by the new
National Solidarity Business Fund, Fondos Naclonales de Empresas de Solfdaridad (FONAES, see
paras. 2.21 - 2.23), the provision of small production credits by municipalities (Fondos de



- 6 -
Solidaridadpara la Producci6n), a special program to provide production credit and grants to small
coffee producers through the National Indigenous Institute (INI), and revolving credit funds managed
by indigenous organizations (Indigenous Regional Funds, FRS).
1.21   The impact of Solidarity on the poor is difficult to measure because it has financed everything
from large water supply schemes to individual scholarships for poor elementary school students, and
because many of its programs have yet to develop an effective monitoring system.5 Nevertheless, it
is clear that certain Solidarity programs, especially the Municipal Funds program, financed by the
first and proposed Second DRD project, are contributing in a number of important ways. The
Municipal Funds program has successfully increased the amount of financing available for
infrastructure in poor rural communities, doing so by involving those communities and their
municipal governments in establishing priorities for investment and ensuring that they are
implemented. Other Solidarity programs focused on rural areas, such as rural water supply, rural
road rehabilitation, and Escuela Digna, also supported by the tw projects, have provided important
additional resources to rural areas, increasing the level of public investment significantly.
1.22   As a very highly visible government program, Solidarity has attracted both criticism and
praise. Some of the most frequently cited strengths of Solidarity include: (a) providing a vehicle for
greater citizen participation in government decision-making through the Solidarity Committees and
Municipal Solidarity Councils, especially in programs managed at the municipal level; (b) effective
mobilization of citizens to contribute to the planning and implementation of public works and social
programs in their own communities; (c) implementing in a cost effective manner a large number of
badly needed small infrastructure projects in a short period of time; (d) promoting greater
decentralized control over public investment decision-making by states and municipalities; and (e)
providing a mechanism for getting investment to rural areas.
1.23   The criticisms vary by the kind of Solidarity investment. However, some Solidarity programs
have been criticized for the following: (a) that some investments may have been selected based on
considerations other than poverty and need; (b) having very limited community involvement in some
programs and works, especially those implemented by government agencies or contractors; (c)
bypassing grassroots organizations by working exclusively with Solidarity Committees established for
each small work; (d) presence of technical problems affecting the quality of implementation; and (e)
lack of attention to operation and maintenance (O&M) issues. The experience of the current Bank
financed first DRD project, which is supporting Solidarity investments in the four poorest states, is
reviewed in paras. 2.27 to 2.34 and Annex E.
1.24   The Solidarity Program therefore, should not be seen as a unitary program, but rather as a
general approach to poverty alleviation and regional development and an umbrella for many different
programs. Because of that, both the first and proposed second DRD projects are designed to support
only specific initiatives within Solidarity which best target poor populations and which best advance
decentralization and the strengthening of local institutions.
5. While the se of exftme rural poverty, as measured by INEGI, has decreased from 28
percent to 26 percent ftom 1989 to 1992, it is not possible to draw a relationship betwen
this decrease and Solidarity.



-7-
II. RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND DECENTRALIZATION
STRATEGY
A. Introduction
2.1    Through its management of Solidarity, SEDESOL has undertaken the central role in
developing national policies and program strategies for rural development, including the
decentralization of investment in rural areas to state and municipal governments and community
groups. The articulation of these strategies, until recently, have been confined to broad program
documents,6 the Manual Unico de Solidaridad, and the operational manuals and technical guidelines
for its individual programs (see references in Annex M). During the implementation of the first DRD
project and the preparation of the follow-up, Second DRD project, SEDESOL has further defined
strategies for improving the targeting and quality of implementation of investment programs and for
strengthening state and local institutions involved in rural development and rural poverty alleviation.
SEDESOL's general strategies for supporting poverty alleviation activities of state and local
government and communities are presented in the Policy Letter (see Annex L) signed by the Secretary
of SEDESOL. Its more specific strategies relating to the program areas to be supported by the
project (i.e. municipal development, small community investments, rural water supply, rural roads,
and income-generating investments) are presented in the draft Project Operational Manual, which was
completed prior to project negotiations. The contents of this manual are to be finalized as a
condition of loan effectiveness (see para. 4.1(a) and 4.2(a)). SEDESOL's strategies for supporting
rural development and decentralization are summarized in the four sections below (sections B through
E).
B. SEDESOL's Strategy for Strengthening Capacity of Rural Municipalities
2.2    Rural municipalities suffer from a series of important limitations: (a) nearly complete
dependence on external resources, mainly revenue-sharing distributed monthly by the state
government; (b) requirement that municipal legislation be approved by the State Congress; (c)
complete change in elected and nonelected municipal officials every three years, resulting in lack of
technical capacity and continuity in development activities; (d) lack of services provided by state and
federal agencies, as there are few incentives for civil servants to provide outreach to rural areas; and
(e) sufficient resources are not available to support priority public investment in basic services.
2.3    Solidarity is a significant provider of investment funds for rural municipalities. Solidarity
programs managed by municipalities include: Municipal Funds, School Rehabilitation (Escuela
Digna), Production Support Funds (Fondos de Solidaridad para la Producci6n), and Children of
Solidarity (Ninos en Solidaridad). The two latter programs, Fondos de Solidaridad and NMbos en
Solidaridad, are transfer programs designed to assist poor producers and poor school children,
respectively. Because the project focuses on strengthening local capacity to manage local investment
activities, especially rural infrastructure, SEDESOL's strategy for these twv areas is not addressed
here.
6. For exmple, La Solidaridad en cl Desarrollo Nacional, La Nueva Relacion entre
Sociedady Gobierno, SEDESOL, March 1993.



2.4    Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna each provide investment funds that are to be used by
municipalities in conjunction with community Solidarity Committees. In the case of Escuela Digna,
these investments are limited to school rehabilitation. In the case of Municipal Funds, funds can be
used to finance a wide range of small subprojects. In both programs, subprojects are managed
directly by communities, with the communities contributing unskilled labor, local materials, and cash,
equivalent to at least 20 percent of the total investment cost. In many rural municipalities, the
Municipal Funds program alone has more than doubled the amount of investment resources available
to the local jurisdictions.
2.5    Together, the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs constitute an important step
toward simplifying and making more responsive the planning and implementation of public investment
in rural communities. Municipalities can use these resources to respond rapidly to communities'
requests for water supply, the rehabilitation of a section of rural road, paving of the streets of the
town center, or reconstruction of a dilapidated school building. However, because these investments
are implemented by the communities themselves, the program is most successful in financing projects
requiring a minimum of technical input.
2.6    In addition to targeting Solidarity programs to poor municipalities, some state governments
have modified their formulas or coefficients for distributing federal revenue-sharing to target a greater
proportion of these resources to poor municipalities,' or have initiated their own matching grant
programs to support municipal investment.' lb strengthen the quality of municipal investment,
SEDESOL and the state governments are providing technical assistance and training for municipal
officials, through their regional offices' within each state, although the coverage and effectiveness of
these efforts vary by state. In addition, many states are undertaking other municipal development
efforts, such as improving property tax collection and financial management systems, and legislative
reforms to increase local autonomy. While these reforms may benefit rural municipalities, their effect
is greatest on urban areas.
2.7    SEDESOL is committed to working with state governments to strengthen rural municipalities
and communities through the following actions, which wvould be supported by the proposed project
(see paras 3.20 and 3.21):
(a)    Improving the reliability and targeting of public funds to poor municipalities by
linking the allocation of Municipal Funds to a distribution formula;
(b)    Promoting activity by the states to review and rationalize their formula for distribution
of revenue sharing resources to municipalities;
(c)    Improving financial management activities by strengthening municipal tax codes and
tax collection effort, and basic accounting systems.
7. For example, Hidalgo, Michoacan and Puebla.
8. For eample, Veracruz.
9. Each of the eight prject stats re divided into 10 to 12 reions. Both fdemal and state
personnel from a range of line and central agencies are located in regional offices.



-9-
(d)    Strengthening community participation in municipal investment planning, by
promoting participatory decision-making within the Municipal Funds and Escuela
Digna programs;
(e)    Providing municipalities access to technical assistance and training to assist them to
plan and implement simple infrastructure works; and
(f)    Supporting municipal efforts to make local services more self-financing and cost-
effective by improving cost recovery for O&M (especially for water supply) and
identifying ways to reduce energy costs and consumption.
C. SEDESOL's Strategy for Rural Water Supply
2.8    Access to potable water is a major problem in Mexico's rural areas. Although 79 percent of
Mexicans have access to potable water, 44 percent in localities under 5,000 do not. Of the 17 million
Mexicans without accessible water supply, 72 percent live in localities with under 5,000 inhabitants,
and of these 12.3 million individuals, 7.4 million (60%) live in the eight project states. In the eight
states, 35.6 percent of the total population of 25.9 million are without accessible water supply, of
which 78 percent live in localities under 5,000 population.
2.9    The tvo principal consequences of inadequate water supply are increased health costs,
including the transmission of cholera and other intestinal diseases, and the cost of time spent carrying
water to the household. Health is negatively impacted not only because of poor water quality, but
also because high transport cost reduces the use of water for sanitary purposes. Women are the
principal transporters of water in rural Mexican societies, frequently spending tuoo t three hours per
day bringing the minimum requirement of water to the household. Making potable water supplies
more accessible, through either a nearby standpipe or in-house plumbing, allows women to devote
more time to economic activities, as well as to attend to other demands.
2.10   While from a legal point of view, water supply is a responsibility of the municipality, many
rural municipalities in these states lack the technical and financial capacity to meet this responsibility.
At the same time, federal and state institutions do not have sufficient capacity or incentives to meet
this need because of the great number of small, geographically dispersed, wvrks required.
2.11   Government devotes most of its water supply investment to urban areas, where the
establishment and strengthening of semi-autonomous water companies is a major goal. To resolve
problems of water supply in rural areas, Government relies on the normal state investment programs,
supplemented with funding targeted to poor areas by Solidarity. These supplementary program
investments may occur through state and municipal water agencies or through Municipal Funds,
which involve communities in project implementation and operation and maintenance.
2.12   SEDESOL:s strategy for meeting the demand for rural water supply involves working directly
with state water agencies (SWAs) to:
(a)    Strengthen the capacity of SWAs to address the needs for water supply in rural areas
through the establishment of a rural water supply intestate technical group (IM) and
of municipal support units (MSUs) (see para. 3.29);



- 10 -
(b)    Assist municipalities to achieve full recovery of O&M costs, provide adequate routine
maintenance, and deliver potable water by improving the quality of systems and
strengthening management capacity; and
(c)    Increase the impact of investment in rural water supply by improving the selection of
subprojects, using economic efficiency criteria.
D. SEDESOL's Strategy for Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
2.13   Mexico has approximately 210,000 km of roads, including a federal netwurk of 49,000 km,
another 61,000 km which were recently transferred from the federal to state governments to create a
state netvurk, and 100,000 km of feeder and rural roads for which responsibility is yet to be
transferred from the federal government to state and local governments. In addition, there is a
network of 32,000 km of tracks (brechas) where responsibility is shared by states and local
governments. The entire network is in poor condition, with about 60 percent of the federal network
and 65 percent of the state highways needing rehabilitation. The rural road system is in even worse
condition, suffering from the greatest neglect and lack of rehabilitation and maintenance activities.
The poor condition of these roads limits the access of rural families to social services, as well as to
inputs and markets for their economic activities.
2.14   This situation has led Government to articulate a national strategy to revitalize and rebuild the
country's roads and ensure proper maintenance. The Government's strategy seeks to: (a) focus
investmnent in the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing road netwvrk, activities which will
bring higher economic returns than new construction; (b) encourage greater decentralization of
responsibilities to lower levels of government; and (c) support institutional reforms required for
improved road management practices to be implemented and sustained. Both the Bank-financed
Highway Rehabilitation and Safety Project (Ln. 3628-ME, 1993), focusing on the federal highway
network, and the MDB-financed Rural Roads Project, focusing on the secondary road netuvrk, also
support the achievement of these objectives. Institutional strengthening activities for these new state
agencies is to be partially supported by the MDB-financed project.
2.15   As part of a federal decentralization strategy, responsibility for 61,000 kn of secondary roads
was transferred to the states in 1990. The federal government has also sought to transfer the rural
road network. In most states, however, responsibility for rural roads has not been accepted by state
governments, which have complained about their poor condition and the states' lack of resources and
adequate institutions to undertake needed rehabilitation and maintenance activities.
2.16   As part of the strengthening of the new state road agencies (SRAs), important institutional
adjustments are necessary, including establishing investment priorities to favor more economically
sound investments in rehabilitation and maintenance rather than new construction, developing road
maintenance planning and management systems, relying more systematically on the more efficient
private contractor industry rather than on the state administration for the implementation of works,
and creating partnerships with municipal governments, which in the medium term will likely be given
responsibility for parts of the rural network.
2.17 SEDESOL's strategy for strengthening the rural road network to be supported by the
proposed Second DRD project is consistent with and complementary of the strategies being pursued in



- 11 -
the strengthening of the federal highway and state secondary networks, supported by the Bank and
IDB-financed projects and includes the following:
(a)    Road Rehabilitation. Priority would be given to the rehabilitation of critical sections
of rural roads over new construction. Appropriate construction technology would be
used to rehabilitate Type E and F rural roads (single lane) at minimal cost, thereby
serving the maximum rural population with limited investment resources. Design
standards and engineering would be kept simple, and works would be limited to
elimination of critical sections (spot improvement), giving priority to the concept of
access as opposed to the concept of comfort or speed of transport. However, a
balanced rural road strategy would be developed by each state, including planning for
construction of priority new roads as well as rehabilitation and maintenance.
(b)    Planning. Rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance activities need to be based on
reliable and updated information about the condition of the road network. An
information and monitoring system, and related decision-making criteria, would be
developed to help in the definition of priorities and allow technical activities to be
planned. Because almost all roads present a similar, very poor condition, interim
planning will be based on a simple prioritization criteria (density of population per
kilometer of road) that gives priority to roads with a low cost per beneficiary, in order
to obtain the maximum use of limited resources.
(c)    Municipal Participation. Tl prepare the way for the eventual transfer of maintenance
responsibilities to municipalities, and to exploit the comparative advantage of
municipalities to manage labor intensive works in rural areas, municipalities would be
contracted to undertake important aspects, principally drainage works, of the rural
roads rehabilitation and maintenance program.
(d)    Boad Management. SRAs would be strengthened in their capacity to manage the road
network, to supervise contracted activities, and to provide technical assistance to
municipalities. In order to support and manage the institutional strengthening
program, emphasis will be given to the development of a rural roads 1TG and MSUs
in each SRA (see para. 3.39).
E. SEDESOL's Pilot Strategies to Increase Income-Earning Potential
2.18   Rural areas in the poor states lack economic stimulus, new investments in income-generating
ventures, and employment opportunities. This is due not only to the difficulty in identifying
economically &asible investments, but also the lack of technical assistance and investment capital
available to rural producers and potential entrepreneurs. Problems are exacerbated by poor physical
infrastructure and poorly developed systems for marketing and distribution. Prior to the recent
adjustment and liberalization policies, Government's strategy in rural areas had been to support the
producers of basic grains by providing subsidized inputs, including credit and other agricultural
inputs, and price guarantees. In addition, since the 1970's, Government has provided targeted
investment money for agriculture in poor rainfed lands, through its regional development programs,



- 12 -
first the PIDER programs and then Solidarity' With the reduction of general agriculture subsidies,
uovernment is placing renewed attention on developing programs that support investment by poor
farmers through Solidarity.
2.19   Solidarity's support for income-generating activities has been provided through five programs:
(a) Solidarity grants provided to producer groups by COPLADEs through state or federal agencies;
(b) investment supported by FONAES, a program begun at the end of 1991, dedicated to assisting
small entrepreneurs by providing risk capital;" (c) development of local savings and loan
associations (FONAES' Cajas de Solidaridad) with the recovery of resources granted producers'
groups by FONAES; (d) small grants provided to women's groups through Mujeres en Solidaridad
(MES); and (e) the Municipal Funds. Each of these programs has encountered difficulties and
SEDESOL anticipates that each will undergo some modification based on recent internal evaluations
and possible policy changes in next federal administration, due to take office in December 1994. For
these reasons, SEDESOL's medium and long term strategy for providing support to income-
generating activities for the rural poor is not completely formulated. The experience to date with
each of the five existing Solidarity programs is presented below.
2.20   Solidarity Grants. Grants to producers' groups are currently provided by Solidarity through
the state SEDESOL offices and the COPLADEs. Evaluations of these investments and of similar
investments supported under PIDER have pointed to problems of technical and economic feasibility,
especially of the medium and large size subprojects (approximately US$50,000 and up), and to the
lack of ongoing technical assistance. Problems have also been detected in smaller subprojects, as
these investments often finance specific inputs for individual producers, rather than coherent projects,
and therefore have limited long term impact.' These problems can be traced to a lack of
appropriate institutional incentives within SEDESOL and the state agriculture agencies to apply
technical and economic criteria to decision-making and to support investments with needed, ongoing
technical assistance. Consideration is now being given to undertaking a pilot effort in one or two
states. Such a SEDESOL pilot wvuld test strategies for increasing the effectiveness and targeting of
Solidarity-financed income-generating activities and strengthening the capacity of involved state
agriculture-related institutions.
2.21   FONAES. FONAES currently provides assistance to established groups or associations of
small business entrepreneurs and producers, whose proposals do not qualify for adequate financing
from the commercial credit market. A semi-autonomous agency of SEDESOL, FONAES has
provided risk capital funds for over 2,000 businesses, principally agriculture-related, throughout
Mexico. Once FONAES agrees to an investment, it provides up to 35 percent of the financing as risk
capital, giving it a stake in the success of the investment. This capital is then matched by the
producer group, which must contribute at least 30 percent of its own resources and secure the
10. In addition, in 1994, the Dimect Producer Income Support Pogm  (PROCAMPO) was
initiald which provides tanisb to past producei of basic grains, many of whom are
located in poor amnfed areas.
11. See Working Paper No. 6 for a more detailed description and critique of FONAES'
progams in the project file.
12. See Working Paper No. S in the project file.



- 13 -
remaining portion from external credit sources. FONAES risk capital has also complemented loans
provided by other Solidarity programs such as the FRS, and grants provided by MES, a program that
targets women's groups in marginal areas.
2.22   An evaluation of FONAES' experience and of the financial viability of its risk capital
operation has not yet been conducted. Field experience leads to the conclusion that a significant
number of subprojects are successful, and that the quality of FONAES's technical operations has
steadily increased during the two years of its existence. Because FONAES is financed with 100
percent federal funds and functions with some autonomy from the COPLADEs, it appears to have
gained a measure of independence from the pressures of special interests which have distorted
decision-making in similar investment programs.
2.23   FONAES is currently undertaking an internal evaluation of its portfolio and an assessment of
its risk capital program. At the same time, FONAES is considering expanding its programs to
provide grants for some categories of investments, to be repaid by the beneficiaries to a local Caja de
Solidaridad at a zero interest rate. FONAES uvuld use this financing mechanism to expand its
coverage to groups of more marginal producers, especially in heavily indigenous areas.
2.24   Savings and Loan Associations. Solidarity has supported over the past five years the
formation and capitalization of savings and loan associations, including: (a) FRS, which are
revolving funds initially capitalized by Solidarity and managed by representatives of local indigenous
groups with the oversight of INI, and (b) formation of local savings and loan associations (Cajas de
Solidaridad) from Solidarity production or investment funds recovered by producers' groups from
their membership. Both of these efforts are relatively new, with the FRS currently going through an
in-depth internal evaluation, financed under the first DRD project. A positive feature of these two
programs is that they provide direct access to resources by poor producers' groups, and encourage the
development of locally managed institutions. A major weakness of both programs has been the lack
of technical assistance to the management of the funds (especially for the FRS), subproject design and
implementation. Overall, however, the experience has been sufficiently positive that Government
intends to continue providing support to both programs.
2.25 Mujercs en Solidaridad. MES is a relatively small program, managed by SEDESOL's state
delegations, which provides technical assistance and some investment grants to women's groups
involved in income-generating activities. While this program has been limited in scope, indications
are that where it is operating it has been relatively effective in providing assistance to women's
groups.
2.26   Municipal Funds. In addition to financing social and economic infrastructure such as
schools, roads and water supply marks, Municipal Funds also provide support for investments in
income-generating enterprises, including agricultural production activities. Less than 5 percent of
Municipal Funds have been invested in such subprojects. This is most likely due to the lack of
technical assistance for identifying and preparing subprojects, as well as the priority given by
municipalities to investment in such areas as water supply and school buildings, which usually benefit
a wider group of citizens. Nevertheless, SEDESOL managers are interested in pursuing strategies for
increasing the support given by Municipal Funds to income-generating activities.



- 14 -
F. Lessons Learned from Past Operations
2.27   Mexico has a twenty-year history of support to regional development efforts, many of them
supported by Bank loans (PIDER I, II & III as well as the current DRD project). The preparation of
the first DRD project took into account lessons learned from PIDER and other regional development
projects about the need for greater decentralization and community participation in rural development
activities. Building on the PIDER experience, the most important and successful innovations of the
DRD project have been that it has: (a) integrated the investment program into normal planning
channels by giving implementation responsibility to state line agencies, the COPLADEs, and
municipalities; and (b) initiated the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs, creating
opportunities for significant community participation in municipal decision-making and
implementation, and increasing cost-effectiveness and accountability by providing communities direct
access to resources.
2.28   At the same time, a number of implementation problems have continued into the first DRD
project. Those problems are: (a) the spread of investments over too many sectors,"3 with over 70
implementing agencies within the federal and four state governments, making project supervision and
efforts to improve implementation difficult; (b) insufficient technical capacity of SEDESOL; and (c)
lack of tested strategy and procedures for the implementation of the agriculture investment
component, leading to a low level of project financing dedicated to it. (See Annex E, 'Application of
Lessons Learned from the First DRD Project.")
2.29   The proposed Second DRD project will address the above issues in that it will: (a) target 67
percent of project financing to the successful Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs,
strengthening them by improving targeting, implementation monitoring, and technical assistance fDr
subproject design; (b) limit other project investments to three rural sectors (water supply, roads and
agriculture), which, in the case of water and roads would be based on simple and appropriate
technology and typical engineering designs; (c) finance approaches to supporting income-generating
activities in poor regions on a limited, pilot scale only; (d) assign only one implementing agency for
each sector in each state; (e) ensure the selection of priority, rural investments by the application of
clear eligibility criteria based on the first DRD project investment experience; (f) strengthen the
project monitoring system (see Annex C); and (g) use r1Tis for each project component and state-
level municipal presidents working groups (MPWGs) as mechanisms for guiding institutional
development activities and reviewing implementation experience.
2.30   During project preparation, an analysis was conducted of the institutional and technical
problems encountered in the agriculture component of the first DRD project and Solidarity in general,
and other earlier experiences with PIDER." The analysis concluded that many of the agricultural
investments failed due to poor investment selection and preparation and to a lack of technical
assistance following the investment. Decisions regarding agricultural investments have been made
centrally, usually at the level of state government, and often wiih little regard for technical or
13. In addition to the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs, sectors receiving
investment in the first DRD project are rural roads, water supply, dminage, schools,
agricultur, environmental protection, electrification, and archaeological sites restormtion.
14. See Working Papers Nos. 5 and 6.



- 15 -
economic feasibility. The proposed component will avoid these problems by financing only a limited
piloting of new approaches to the agricultural sector under the income-generating component (see
paras. 3.40-3.41).
2.31   The implementation of the Municipal Funds was also evaluated during the first project."
Results of this evaluation showed that in a great majority of the cases, poor rural communities
participated actively in investment selection and implementation. Nevertheless, the evaluation also
showed that cases exist where community participation has been limited and the process of selection
of investments either not very open or being overly influenced by local and state authorities. Where
there is willingness on the part of municipal officials to involve communities, the program benefitted
from participation and gave rural communities a central role.
2.32 The Municipal Funds evaluation and ongoing project supervision have also identified
weaknesses in the technical quality of some subprojects as well as limitations in the selection of
subprojects. Choice may become limited by three factors: the availability of required technical
assistance, the tendency to share the limited funds available among many communities, thereby
limiting the size of any single subproject, and the limit placed on total allowable cost of individual
subprojects. In addition, while the allocation of funds among municipalities by state governments
shows a strong bias towards poorer and more rural municipalities, the distribution has not been linked
to objective criteria and in most states there are significant differences in the per capita distribution to
municipalities with similar degrees of poverty and ruralness. To address this issue, the allocation of
funds in the Second DRD project would become formula driven in each state, ensuring both
consistency and fairness in the targeting of funds to poor areas (see pars. 3.17). Furthermore,
requirements of poor rural municipalities for technical assistance would be addressed by allowing
these municipalities to contract for assistance as well as receive assistance from the MSUs being
created within state water and road agencies.
2.33   A 1993 study of school construction activity under the Municipal Funds demonstrated that
schools were being constructed by communities at less that one-half the cost of federally contracted
schools." Some differences, however, were found in the construction quality of the Municipal
Funds school, a problem that needs to be remedied through increased technical assistance and
supervision. The same study discovered that in the Escuela Digna school rehabilitation program,
community participation and quality of these simple works were both very high. SEDESOI:s own
internal review of the Escuela Digna program, however, revealed the importance of limiting program
resources going to schools already attended and shifting those resources to schools in rural areas
whose participation in the program has not been as active (see para. 3.18).
2.34   In water supply, the Second DRD project will use an analysis of the experience of the first
DRD project to establish per capita cost eligibility criteria for investments in partial as well as
complete systems. This refinement of the eligibility criteria will improve cost-effectiveness of
investments selected and allow service to be expanded to a greater number of individuals. In the first
15. See J. Fox and J. Anda, *Community Participation in Mexico's Municipal Funds
Program: The Case of Oaxaca. Summary Report of Phase One - December 1993.
16. See Rodrigo Gonzlez Kelz, *Estudio Comparativ sobre al Construccidn,
Rehabilibtci6n y Mantenimiento de Escuelas Primarias Rurales,' June 1993..



- 16 -
DRD project, state governments gave priority to financing new road construction over rehabilitation
and maintenance, which have been shown to provide higher economic rates of return. In the Second
DRD project, better targeting of resources would be achieved by limiting the component to financing
spot improvement (see paras. 3.32 to 3.37) and the initiation of a municipal maintenance program for
those roads rehabilitated under the spot improvement program (see para. 3.38). This approach would
also allow use of labor intensive methodologies which would provide both temporary employment in
the spot improvement program as well as long-term, part-time employment in the maintenance
program. In both areas, rural water supply and rural roads, ITGs will be established to involve these
agencies in planning component implementation, including institutional development activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
3.1    Government has expressed strong interest in a Second DRD project that would continue and
further develop the most successful innovations of the first project beyond the closing of that project
in 1995. The primary interest of Government has been continued Bank support for the Municipal
Funds program, currently receiving over 40 percent of the US$350 million loan financing of the first
DRD project, and for specific sectors (rural water supply, rural roads and income-generating
subprojects) where the Second DRD project would continue progress in implementing new approaches
and strengthening state and municipal institutions. Government's continuing interest in Bank
financing of buffer zone management aspects of the Selva Lacandona protection program in Chiapas is
not addressed in this project, but may be considered in a future natural resource management project.
3.2   In proposing a second DRD project, Government sought not only to consolidate and further
develop the gains made under the first project, but also to expand the area affected by the project.
The eight states to be included incorporate 32 percent of Mexico's population, but 52 percent of its
rural population, and 54 percent of its poor. In addition, by focusing on a larger number of states,
the project will have a greater opportunity to affect national policy and programs.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.3    One of the central elements of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Mexico which was
approved by the Board on June 9, 1994, is to reduce poverty by 'expanding and improving programs
attacking poverty' and by 'strengthening the roles and capabilities of state and municipal authorities
in the delivery of services."' 'he current DRD project has provided an effective model for
achieving these objectives. This project demonstrated success in financing small works implemented
by local communities (the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs), and provided an
opportunity to develop state-level strategies to guide rural investment in water supply, rural roads and
agriculture. Given the experience with the first project, financing for Municipal Funds and Escuela
Digna would be continued under the Second DRD project, with a greater emphasis on institutional
strengthening for rural municipalities and on the provision of technical assistance to strengthen
subproject design. In addition, the Second DRD project would seek to institutionalize strategies for
improving rural water supply and rural roads investments developed in the first project, improving
17. Country Assistance Stnraegy of the 'Vbrld Bank Group for the United MUcican States,
May 13, 1994, pagp 10, para. 32.



- 17 -
poverty targeting and technical quality of investments, and increasing municipal involvement in
implementation of investments and maintenance of rural water supply systems and rural roads. It will
also attempt to improve the most difficult component, the income-generating component, by
supporting efforts of the COPLADEs and the Municipal Funds program to support investment and
technical assistance to groups in smaller, better-focused pilot programs, especially in indigenous areas
and for women's groups. Continued Bank involvement will therefore help ensure that rural
development strategies in these key sectors, many of which were forged during the first project, will
be furfther developed and institutionalized.
3.4   In each component and sector, the strategies to be used in the project build directly from the
Bank's experience in other projects in Mexico as well as experience in other countries and regions.
The rehabilitation of critical sections and lengthman system of rural road maintenance were pioneered
in other Bank projects in Africa and Latin America, and are consistent with the Bank's overall
strategy for rural roads. The project guidelines and strategies for the rural water supply component
are consistent with sector policies developed under the Mexico Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(Ln. 3271-ME, 1991). The proposed income-generating component emerged directly from the Bank's
dialogue with Government about the changing roles of the federal and state governments in supporting
agricultural development and the appropriate use of targeted credit and grant programs and mould
complement larger scale activities to be financed under the recently signed Rainfed Areas
Development Project, as well as the Agricultumal Technology Project.
C. Project Objectives
3.5    The overall objective of the project is to increase access of rural poor and indigenous
communities to basic social and economic infrastructure (especially roads, water supply and schools)
and to income-generating activities and thus alleviate poverty. The project would strngthen
mechanisms for participation of these communities in public decision-making at the local level, and
strengthen the institutional capacity of state and local govrnments to assume greater responsibility for
supporting rural development.. The specific objectives are to: (a) improve basic infrastructur and
support income-generating investments in poor rural areas of the eight states; (b) strengthen
institutional mechanisms at the federal and state levels to plan, supervises, monitor, and evauate rural
development programs co-financed by these governments and beneficiary communities; and (c)
strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of state agencies and municipalities to manage
rural investmnents efficiently and effectively, using appropriate technologies and participation of
affected communities.
3.6   lIb achieve these objectives, the project mould support Goverrnment's policies to: (a) improve
poverty targeting and reliability of funds transferred to rural municipalities by introducing poverty
criteria into the formula for distributinig Municipal Funds; (b) improv services to rural areas by
decentralizing responsibility for rural roads and rural water supply to states and municipalities; and (c)
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public investment through the application of technical and
economic selection criteria.
3.7    The project would include the four states participating in the first DRD project (Chiapas,
Guerrero, Hidalgo, and Oaxaca) and an additional four states (Michoacan, Puebla, Veracruz, and
Zacatecas) whose selection was based on poverty criteria. Altough significant progress has been
made in the first DRD project, the original four states continue to be included in the second project
because innovations developed during the first project are yet to be fully implemented and



- 18 -
institutionalized. The four new states provide an opportunity to immediately apply lessons learned
from the first project, and an opportunity to positively affect a much greater number of the rural
poor. In addition, by including eight states, with 54 percent of Mexico's poor, the project may have
more opportunity to influence national poverty alleviation policies.
3.8   The project would contain four investment components in addition to a component to
strengthen SEDESOL capacity and to support project coordination activities:
(a)    Municipal Investment and Institutional Development (US$737 million). This
component would finance small-scale community selected and managed works, for
water supply development, rural roads, school rehabilitation, productive activates, and
other small infrastructure works of priority to rural communities, through
SEDESOL's Municipal Funds and school rehabilitation (Escuela Digna) programs.
The component would also develop the fiscal, administrative and technical capacity of
rural and semi-rural municipalities, through studies, technical assistance, training, and
support for legislative and regulatory reforms at the state level.
(b)    Rural Water Supply (US$178 million). This component would provide potable water
to small rural localities (between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants), by financing investments
whose technical complexity and cost make them inappropriate or ineligible for the
Municipal Funds program. The component would also improve the capacity of state
water agencies and municipalities to manage water supply investment and operations
and maintenance efficiently and effectively. Subprojects would be selected and
contracted by state water agencies, using established investment selection criteria and
standard parameters for engineering design.
(c)    Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance (US$133 million). This component
mould finance the rehabilitation and maintenance of priority sections of the rural road
network, while developing the capacity of SRAs and municipalities to do so efficiently
and effectively. Investments will be managed by SRAs, selected from an established
list of priority roads, and designed according to standard engineering parameters.
Investrnents will exceed the level of financing and complexity of those financed under
Municipal Funds, with the average road rehabilitation costing approximately
US$7,000 per kilometer. Municipalities and communities would have an active role
in the implementation of road rehabilitation, with labor intensive works contracted to
municipalities through inter-governmental agreements. A municipal maintenance
program to cover roads rehabilitated would also be financed.
(d)   Income-Generating Component (US$12 million). This component would provide
technical assistance, training, and limited investment to develop and pilot new
strategies to support income-generating projects in rural areas, by strengthening
income-generating activities in the Municipal Funds program and by supporting the
development of income-generating programs by state agriculture agencies in one or
two pilot states.
(e)    SEDESOL Institutional Strengthening and Project Coordination (US$35 million).
SEDESOL's capacity to manage the project-financed programs would be strengthened.
Financing would be provided for a program of institutional development technical



- 19 -
assistance and training, contracting of technical expertise required for the supervision
and review of each component, and continued development of the project information
and monitoring system. Annual project audits would also be financed.
D. Project Description and Components
1. Overview of Institutional Aspects
3.9    The project will support specific components of Solidarity (see description paras. 1.15 to
1.24), which accounted for less than 25 percent of the Solidarity expenditures in the eight
participating states in 1992. The project funds provided through Solidarity are transferred by
SEDESOL to specific implementing agencies depending on the investment component. Agencies and
groups receiving project funds include municipalities and community Solidarity Committees
(Municipal Funds, Escuela Digna, and aspects of the rural roads and rural water supply programs);
the rural road agency and water supply agency in each state (rural water supply and rural roads
programs); state agriculture agencies, municipalities and producers' organizations (income-generating
component); State Planning and Finance Secretariats, SEDESOL, and municipalities (municipal
strengthening); and SEDESOL (SEDESOL institutional strengthening and project coordination).
3.10   The annual legal agreements between the federal and state governments, known as Convenios
de Desarrollo Social (CDSs) and their Anexos de Ejecuci6n, commit the two levels of government to
jointly carry out the Solidarity Program, and specifically the objectives and strategies of the programs
to be supported by the project (see para. 1.16). The Anexo de Ejecuci6n for the implementation of
the project will establish the annual budget ceiling for each state as well as the matching grant
fiormula of federal to state funds." This Anexo will also require that programs be implemented
consistent with the administrative and technical requirements agreed to in the Project Loan and
Guarantee documents. A separate Anexo de Ejecuci6n is signed by the federal, state and municipal
governments for the implementation of Municipal Funds program. These three documents create the
legal basis for the participation of states and municipalities in project implementation and requires
them to follow standard procurement, financial, and auditing practices of the Bank. The model for
the project-specific Anexo de Ejecucion was agreed at negotiations (see para. 4.1(w)).
3.11   It is anticipated that during the four years of the project, approximately 54,000 community
managed infrastructure works, 15,600 km of rural roads rehabilitation, and 1,300 water supply
systems will be financed in addition to municipal maintenance programs initiated on the roads
rehabilitated, and a range of institutional development activities. A system has been developed for
guiding project implementation, including clear guidelines for each component, the use of simple
subproject eligibility criteria, and an information and monitoring system developed during the first
DRD project to provide updated information on implementation status. The draft Project Operational
Manual, presented at negotiations, describes these guidelines, and the Government confirmed that all
project components would be implemented in accordance with the Project Operational Manual (see
para. 4. 1(a)). As a condition of effectiveness, SEDESOL will adopt the final version of the Project
Operational Manual, agreeable to the Bank (see para. 4.2(a)). The implementation of the project
monitoring system in SEDESOIs offices in all eight states is a condition of loan effectiveness (see
para. 4.2(b) and Annex C). The guidelines and institutional responsibilities for the identification,
18. In the case of the eight project states, this ratio is 75/25.



- 20 -
selection, appraisal, implementation, and monitoring of investments in each component are detailed in
Annexes F, G, H, and 1.
2. Municipal Investment and Institutional Development Component
(US$737 million total cost, including contingencies)
3.12   The municipal investment and institutional development component vuld finance
infrastructure in rural communities, including water supply systems, road rehabilitation, and schools,
and develop the capacity of the rural and semi-rural municipalities" and their communities to plan
and manage local social and economic infrastructure investment. The component consists of three
subcomponents: (a) the Municipal Funds program to invest in the construction or rehabilitation of
small infrastructure subprojects by rural communities, with technical assistance provided to assist
municipalities and communities in related engineering designs; (b) the Escuela Digna program to
support school rehabilitation activities managed by parents' and teachers' committees; and (c)
institutional development actions and related studies, designed to increase financial independence of
municipalities, increase managerial capacity, and strengthen participation of rural communities in
municipal planning and decision-making.
(a)    Municipal Funds (US$650 million)
3.13   The Municipal Funds program will finance investments of rural and semi-rural municipalities
in the eight states (US$660 million), of which up to 10 percent may be used by the municipalities for
engineering design assistance. Individual investments could not exceed US$50,000, excluding the
value of community participation, although it is anticipated that the average investment will be less
than US$15,000. Subprojects wuld be identified through community assemblies, and selected by
specially formed Municipal Solidarity Councils (MSCs) headed by the Municipal President, but with
representation of the municipality's communities. Selected subprojects would then be implemented by
community Solidarity Committees based on simple subproject appraisals, including technical design
and budgets. Communities would be required to contribute a minimum of 20 percent of subproject
costs in cash or kind. Although selection of specific investments is broadly discretionary,
SEDESOL's guidelines indicate that funds be targeted first to problems of water supply, rural roads,
sewage and latrines, electrification, schools, health facilities, and productive works, in areas of
greatest need. Schools and health facilities would not be financed unless teachers and medical
professionals were already assigned to them. Finally, investments in municipal buildings, churches
and cemeteries are excluded.
3.14   Investments under Municipal Funds would be limited by the limitation on subproject cost
(US$50,000) and by the capability of the communities and municipalities to undertake technically
complex investments. These investments would be complemented by the financing of larger scale
rural water supply and rural roads works through these two components.
19. Rurl municipalities are defind as any municipality whose seat of govenmcent
(cabecera) has a population of less than 5,000. Semi-rural municipalities are defined as
municipalities whose cabecera has a population of 5,000 or more, but wher over one-third
of the population live in localities under 5,000.



- 21 -
3.15   Both the state delegation of SEDESOL and the state government (usually the Secretar(a de
Planificaci6n) are responsible for oversight of the Municipal Funds program, and provide annual
orientation sessions for municipal officials and the MSCs, as well as assistance to municipalities in the
development of subprojects.
3.16   During the first DRD project, technical assistance was provided to municipalities for
subproject design from a variety of sources, including state line agencies, regional offices of the state
COPLADE and SEDESOL delegation, and the private sector, including citizens of the municipality
who donated their time. In the Second DRD project, the provision of specialized technical assistance,
especially for rural water supply and rural roads engineering and income-generating investments,
would be strengthened significantly. A plan is to be developed for the financing of this technical
assistance in each state, to be included in the final version of the Project Operational Manual.
Strategies for providing this technical assistance include: (a) allowing municipalities and their
communities to directly contract technical assistance with special funds provided by SEDESOL; (b)
providing greater access to municipalities of specialized state or SEDESOL staff, who would be based
in regional offices; and (c) providing access to technical assistance from the MSUs of the SWAs and
SRAs. The plan for the provision of technical support to municipalities and communities will be
finalized as part of the Project Operational Manual, to be agreed and adopted as a condition of loan
effectiveness (see para. 4.2(a)).
3.17   Municipal Funds program guidelines would also ensure that resources are preferentially
targeted to rural areas, where the poor are concentrated and where Municipal Funds investments have
shown to be most effective. During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the Municipal
Funds operational manual, including the limits to be placed on the percentage of resources that a
municipality can devote to its seat of government (cabecera), depending on the size of the cabecera
and the percentage of municipal population residing there (see para. 4.1(c) and Annex F). The
proposed formula of each state for distributing Municipal Funds to its municipalities was received
during negotiations for all eight states. The purpose of the formulae is to allow for the allocation of
funds based on factors of poverty, population and population distribution in each municipality.
Agreement on these formulae would be confirmed by their inclusion in the Project Operational
Manual, to be agreed and adopted as a condition of effectiveness (see parm. 4.2(a)).
(b)    Escuela Digna (US$51 million)
3.18   The Escuela Digna program would finance the rehabilitation and repair of over 12,000
primary and secondary school facilities. The average subproject size would be approximately
US$4,000, and investments would be selected by municipal governments, with committees of parents
and teachers responsible for planning and implementation. The project would finance materials and
skilled labor used for rehabilitation of school facilities. Approximately 20 percent of the total cost of
individual investments would be contributed by communities in unskilled labor and local materials.
From 1990 to 1993, the Escuela Digna program was financed by the first DRD project in the four
project states. During that time, 14,000 schools (47% of all schools) received assistance, at a total
cost of USS47 million, or US$3,300 per school. Under the Second DRD project, funding would be
provided for a much smaller percentage of schools in the eight project states (less than 15%), as it is
anticipated that much of the demand for school rehabilitation has already been addressed, and because
works now carried out under Escuela Digna can be easily included in the Municipal Funds program.
Priority would be given under the project to the financing of school rehabilitation in rural



- 22 -
communities, in order to compensate for a bias against such financing noted in the national evaluation
of the Escuela Digna program.
3.19    As a requirement of the program, an Escuela Digna Solidarit) Committee (Comitl Escolar
de Solidaridad) is established through an open assembly meeting of parents, teachers and school
administrators of a particular school. The role of the Committee is then to seek funding from the
municipality and to supervise works, administer and watch over resources. Activities that can be
financed through the program include: structural reinforcement, preventive maintenance, corrective
maintenance, repair of bathrooms, and replacement or repair of furniture and equipment. School
committees, once formed, remain functioning in order to help ensure that the responsible state
agencies provide ongoing maintenance of the school. The operational manual for Escuela Digna,
annexed to the draft Project Operational Manual was agreed at negotiations (see para. 4. 1(c)).
(c)    Municipal Strengthening (US$36 million)
3.20   The municipal strengthening subcomponent would support institutional development efforts to
improve the implementation of the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna subcomponents as well as
strengthen rural and semi-rural municipalities through a program of technical assistance, training,
provision of basic office and accounting equipment, and legislative reform at the state level. The
objectives of the subcomponent would be to: (a) strengthen participation of communities in municipal
planning and decision-making; (b) strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of municipal
personnel; (c) increase the financial capacity of the municipalities by improving financial
administration and planning and increasing revenues; (d) support studies leading to the reform of state
laws and regulations affecting the fiscal and administrative soundness of the municipality; and (e)
institute strategies to improve access to expert technical assistance to support municipal and
community-managed investment and O&M activities.
3.21   This subcomponent would be managed by SEDESOL and State Planning and Finance
Secretariats, with the active participation of the lTGs for Fiscal Strengthening and for Municipal
Funds, and of the MPWGs established in each state. The summary plan for the municipal
strengthening subcomponent was confirmed at negotiations (see para. 4.1(d)), and a more detailed
plan will be agreed and included in the Project Operational Manual. At negotiations it was confirmed
that implementation of this subcomponent would be on the basis of agreed annual plans presented to
the Bank no later than January 31 of each year. Activities to be financed include:
(a)    Trainine and Technical Assistance to Strengthen Municipal Investment Planning and
Promote Cormnunity Participation (US$3.3 million). Workshops would be developed
and conducted for municipal officials and community representatives in the areas of
investment planning and community participation. During the project at least at least
50 percent of the 1,408 municipalities?' will have attended these workshops. The
project would finance the technical assistance needed to develop the program (US$.3
million), the workshops (US$2 million), and follow-up technical assistance to
participating municipal officials (US$1 million).
20. This includes all municipalities participating in the Municipal Funds program, that is alU
municipalities of the eight states ecept for the 25 most urban municipalities (se Annex F
for identification of these excluded municipalities).



- 23 -
(b)    Municipal Officials Exchanee Program (US$.6 million). Municipal officials would be
given an opportunity to participate in two kinds of exchange programs: (a) group
study tours in which exemplary municipalities are visited in order to see specific
innovative practices in place; and (b) one-on-one exchanges where municipal officials
are invited to spend up to a week in a municipality of similar size, providing
assistance to and learning from the officials within that municipality. Exchanges
would take place within the eight states, within the 31 states of Mexico, and with
municipalities and municipal associations in other countries.
(c)    Studies. Technical Assistance and Training to increase Municipal Revenues (US$3.5
million). Analysis of the legislative and administrative frameworks for municipalities
has been initiated under the first DRD project in the four project states, focusing on
identifying needed reforms to revenue-sharing formulas, and improving municipal
codes and local tax collection efforts. These activities were undertaken by the Fiscal
Strengthening ITG and would be continued under the Second DRD project, which
would finance: (a) studies in each state on revenue generation problems of rural
municipalities (US$.8 million total); (b) technical assistance support to address the
results of these studies (US$1.2 million); and (c) training of municipal officials (US$1
million). Additional activities, to be defined during project implementation with the
assistance of the Fiscal Strengthening ITU, would also be financed (US$.5 million).
These activities would be implemented with the support of the Fiscal Strengthening
ITG and the Secretariats of Finance and Planning in each state.
(d)    Development of Municipal Budgetirn and Accounting (US$11.4 million). Municipal
budgeting and accounting would be strengthened by: (a) review of systems and
procedures currently in place in a sample of municipalities in each state (US$.4
million); (b) provision of technical assistance to help municipalities instill best
practices (US$2 million) and related computer and other equipment (US$8 million);
and (c) on-the-job and off-site training for municipal officials in budgeting and
accounting practices (US$1 million). Efforts would focus on developing cost
accounting for different municipal services, in order to provide better information for
establishing user fees and prioritizing municipal services. These activities would be
implemented with the support of the Fiscal Strengthening 1TG and the Finance and
Planning Secretariats in each state.
(e)    Municipal Presidents Workirn  Groups (MPWGs) (US$.4 million). Working groups
of rural municipal presidents would be formed in each state. These groups would be
organized by the State Planning Secretariats, with the assistance of SEDESOL. The
working groups would meet three times per year, to provide a forum for identifying
the priorities of rural municipal governments for administrative and technical
assistance, review project progress and issues, and make recommendations.
Assurances were provided at negotiations that the MPWG would be established and
continue to function in each state throughout the project (see paras. 4.1(g) and
4.1(k)).
(f)    Interstate Technical GrouR for Fiscal Strengthening (US$.5 million). This group was
established during the first DRD project, and includes representatives of the federal
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), the State Finance Secretaries, and



- 24 -
representatives of the MPWG. It would continue to meet quarterly, to participate in
the planning and implementation of studies, policy refbrm, and technical assistance
and training related to strengthening revenue generation capability, state-municipal
fiscal transfers, and financial management of rural municipalities. This group would
address areas such as tax code reform, redefinition of criteria for distribution of
federal revenue-sharing, and efforts to increase local tax collection capacity.
Assurances would be provided at negotiations that the Fiscal Strengthening ITG
would continue to function throughout the project (see paras. 4.1(g) and 4. 1a)).
(g)   Interstate Technical Group for Municipal Funds (US$.4 million). This group was
initiated during the process of preparation of the Second DRD project, and includes
representatives of the state agencies and state SEDESOL Subdelegations responsible
for the Municipal Funds program, as well as of municipal presidents from the
MPWG. The group would meet three times per year, to participate in the planning
and implementation of monitoring systems, studies, technical assistance, and training
related to the implementation of the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs.
In addition, the project will finance technical assistance, training and studies defined
by the group, that would allow it to carry out its mission. Assurances were provided
at negotiations that the Municipal Funds Ill would continue to function throughout
the project (see paras. 4.1(g) and 4.1j)).
(h)    Other Studies. Technical Assistance and Training Activities (US$2 million). In
addition to the areas identified in (a) through (h) above, it is anticipated that the lTGs
and MPWGs will identify other actions in support of municipal development.
3.22  lechnical Assistance for Subproiect Formulation (US$ 13.9 million). In each project state a
program would be instituted to provide access to technical assistance to municipalities and
communities for the formulation of investment subprojects, especially for those subprojects to be
financed by Municipal Funds. The technical assistance would complement and strengthen existing
sources of such technical assistance, as well as the financing available as part of each municipality's
allocation of Municipal Funds (see pam. 3.13). The plan for this program is to be confirmed as part
of the Project Operational Manual, to be agreed and adopted as a condition of loan effectiveness
(see para. 4.2(a)).
3.23   Assurances were given at negotiations that municipal strengthening institutional development
activities will be carried out on the basis of agreed annual plans, provided to the Bank no later than
January 31 of each year (see para. 4.1(m)).
3. Rural Water Supply Component
(US$178 million total cost, Including contingencies)
3.24   The rural water supply component has as its main objective improved access to potable water
supply by the rural population. That objective would be achieved through the rehabilitation,
extension and development of new systems, and strengthening of local and state capacity to ensure the
sustainabiity of these systems. Approximately 1,300 communities with populations of 500 to 5,000
inhabitants will benefit from expanded rural water supply coverage in the eight states. This means
that water supply coverage in communities of that size in the eight states will be expanded from 52
percent to 67 percent, benefiting approximately 1.9 million people. These works will be



- 25 -
complemented by water supply works carried out by municipalities under the Municipal Funds
program (see para. 3.13), principally for localities under 500 population.
3.25   The component consists of two sub-components: (a) rehabilitation and construction of water
supply systems; and (b) institutional strengthening for the SWAs and local water organizations.
(a)    Water Supply System Rehabilitation and Construction (US$174 million)
3.26   Investments will be made in the contracting of water supply rehabilitation and new
construction works and purchase of equipment, such as pumps. In addition, 6 percent of investment
costs will be used for the contracting of associated engineering designs (US$9 million). The
component would target, with some exceptions, localities from 500 to 5,000 population for
construction of new systems and the extension and rehabilitation of existing systems by SWAs which
would contract these works to the private sector. About 25 percent of the number of subprojects
would cost less than US$50,000. In this case, contracts (convenios) with Solidarity Committees may
be used to increase the participation of communities in these works. A limit of 5,000 population
would be maintained in order to give priority to poor, rural areas. With an overall target of 1,300
systems, approximately 40 subprojects would be constructed in each state per year, at an average base
project cost of US$120,000, and an average cost per beneficiary of US$80.
3.27   During project preparation, a preliminary list of rural water supply requirements was
identified in each state by the SWA to provide a preliminary basis for future investments. That list
will be extended incrementally during project implementation as the basis for selecting annual
investments. Annual investments will be selected only if they are under the agreed cost limit per
capita. The cost per capita limit for a new water supply system using superficial sources of water
would be US$200; for new water supply systems using ground water sources the limit wvuld be
US$350 per capita. This condition of eligibility for project financing has been confirmed at
negotiations. Because many of the investments are not for complete systems, the cost per capita limit
will also be calculated for individual system components, including the captation, conduction, storage,
and distribution (see Annex G, Table 1). The general guidelines for the implementation of this
component is presented in the draft Project Operational Manual and was confirmed at negotiations
(see para. 4.1(c)).
3.28   Systems constructed or rehabilitated would be operated and maintained by the community,
through a community water committee, or by the municipal government. Bills of quantities for works
would include a provision for the training of the local water organization in basic O&M. The content
of this contract was agreed at negotiations as part of the draft Project Operational Manual (see para.
4.1(f)). A tentative plan for the recovery of O&M costs would be presented in the data sheet for each
subproject.
(b)    Institutional Development for State Water Agencies and Local Water
Organizations (US$4 million)
3.29   The institutional development subcomponent was confirmed at negotiations (see para. 4.1(d)).
It will focus on strengthening state and local water organizations through the following activities:
(a)    Development of Tnventory for Rural Water Sumply (US$.4 million). Technical
assistance would be provided that would assist each SWA to initiate, the development



- 26 -
of an inventory of requirements and potential for rural water supply development, and
the condition of existing systems. This inventory would be maintained and used as a
basis for investment planning by the SWA. The TOR for this effort were agreed at
appraisal, and wi'l be confirmed during negotiations as part of the Project Operational
Manual (see Annex G, Attachment II).
(b)    Special Studies (US$1.1 million). Studies to be contemplated during the project
would include, but not be limited to: (a) strategies to improve cost recovery in rural
systems; (b) alternative sources of energy and energy savings; (c) hydrological studies
(ground water); and (d) development of management information systems for states
water agencies. A summary of the TORs for these studies is provided in Annex G,
Attachment II.
(c)    Improvement of Technical Capacity of State and Local Water Agencies and Municipal
gL_ff (US$2.0 million). Training programs and technical assistance would be
provided to: (a) upgrade the technical capacity of SWA personnel in areas of basic
engineering, O&M, computer applications, economic and environmental analysis of
projects, and supervision of works; and (b) provide training to municipal and local
water officials in O&M and basic accounting. Financing would also be available for
the purchase of computers, software, and other technical equipment (see Annex G).
(d)    Municipal SuDDort Units (US$.3 million). SWAs would establish an MSU to assist
rural municipalities to address technical, environmental, administrative, and cost
recovery issues. The plan for this unit is described in an annex of the draft Project
Operational Manual and assurances were provided at negotiations that the unit would
be established in each state by no later than June 30, 1995 (see paras. 4.1(g) and
4.1(i)). Studies and technical assistance would be contracted to assist MSUs in
specific areas related to O&M. The project would finance computers and office
equipment for MSUs (US$. 1 million) and the costs associated with the MSUs'
provision of training to technicians from rural water systems (US$.2 million).
Financing for consultants to assist the MSUs in included in the SEDESOL
strengthening and project coordination component (see para. 3.42).
(e)    Inter-State Technical Group (US$.2 million). An ITG for Rural Water Supply,
composed of representatives of each SWA and the water supply unit in the SEDESOL
PCU, was initiated during project preparation. This group would continue to function
during implementation and, as part of its role in planning project implementation,
would be responsible for planning technical training for state rural water supply
personnel, and would be a forum for interchange and development of appropriate
technical methods. The project would provide support for the organization and
implementation of the periodic meetings of the ITG. Assurances were provided at
negotiations that the Rural Water Supply IT would continue to function throughout
the project (see paras. 4.1(g) and 4.1(j)).



- 27 -
4. Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component
(US$133 million total cost, including contingencies)
3.30   This component consists of three subcomponents: (a) rural road rehabilitation (US$115
million); (b) routine maintenance program (US$13 million); and (c) institutional strengthening of state
road agencies (US$5 million). The rural road maintenance strategy is built on the premise that the
rural road network in the eight states first must receive rehabilitation of critical sections (spot
improvement) before maintenance activities begin (see paras. 2.16 and 2.17(a)). Subsequent routine
maintenance would consist of simple works regularly performed throughout the year to maintain the
drainage system (ditches, culvert, ford, vegetation) and the running surface (filling potholes and ruts,
maintaining the surface camber). The general guidelines for the implementation of this component
has been presented in the Draft Project Operational Manual and was confirmed at negotiations (see
para. 4.1(c)).
3.31   The rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance component would improve the condition of
approximately 29 percent of the rural road network in the eight states, and would help reduce the
overall deterioration of that network by: (a) supporting a change in state policy priorities and funding
to emphasize rehabilitation and maintenance over new construction; (b) designing and implementing
appropriate technologies for rural road rehabilitation; (c) improving state rural road administrations'
effectiveness in maintaining their rural road network through increased reliance upon contracted
works, rather than force account, and through improved management activities; and (d) developing
the capacity of municipalities to conduct routine maintenance, erosion control and drainage works for
spot improvements through local Solidarity Committees. As a byproduct, the municipal maintenance
program would also provide opportunities for rural unskilled employment. Although it would assist
only eight states, the project is expected to help establish a nationwide institutional and technical
framework for the improved rehabilitation and maintenance of rural roads.
(a) Rural Roads Rehabilitation (US$115 million)
3.32   Rural road rehabilitation investments will be limited to spot improvement of the existing
network, and will be contracted by the SRAs in each of the eight project states in part to the private
sector and in part through agreements (convenios) with Solidarity Committees assisted by the
municipalities. This approach is being piloted during 1994 in four states under the first DRD project.
By identifying and improving only the critical sections of a rural road, access becomes substantially
improved at a low cost, in terms of transport time required and accessibility during the rainy season.
Required spot improvements are principally drainage, erosion control and grading to reconfigure the
road surface, and regravelling where existing support is too low to permit traffic flows.
3.33   The subcomponent will finance spot improvement of 15,600 km of Type E and F non-paved,
single lane rural roads during the four years of the project, at an estimated average base cost of
US$7,000 per km, including a provision of 3 percent for engineering design. Selection of rural roads
for inclusion in the program will be based upon a list of road links, confirmed at negotiations,
placed in priority order using number of beneficiaries per kilometer as a proxy measure for economic
effectiveness (see para. 4. 1(b)). The program would be limited to single lane non-paved roads (Type
E and F), with an allowance of up to 10 percent of the total road length set aside for double lane
rural roads (rype D); the changes in the list agreed at negotiations would be limited to 30 percent of
the list.



- 28 -
3.34 Actual works will be of two types: (a) those works involving heavy machinery, especially
earthmoving equipment, would be contracted to the local private sector (US$80 million); and (b) those
works that are labor intensive, principally drainage and erosion control works, would be carried out
directly by Solidarity Committees through interested municipalities linked by an agreement with the
SRAs (US$35 million). In cases where the municipality is not interested or not capable, works would
be fully contracted.
3.35 Contracted works would be handled by local contractors, and would generally be simple and
small. It is anticipated that the local contracting market is fully capable of implementing the
scheduled program of spot improvement. The opening of a regular market fur simple mechanized
rehabilitation works would also assist in strengthening the local construction industry.
3.36   Under the spot improvement program, the fbllowing were included as annexes to the draft
Project Operational Manual, confirmed at negotiations: (a) institutional development program for the
component, including draft TORs for updating the technical guidelines fur spot improvements and for
engineering, and for environmental training; (b) the Spot Improvement Manual; (c) initial list of
"candidate roads' of each state and the guidelines fur placing additional roads on the candidate roads
list (see paras. 4.1(b), 4.1(c), and 4.1(d)). During the implementation period, to attend any
unforeseen situations, a maximum increase in 30 percent of the initial list would be allowed. A
limited number of class D rural roads, less than 10 percent of the total number of kilometers, would
be eligible for project financing.
3.37   Other conditions related to this component are:
(a)    Annual implementation programs would be presented to the Bank based by ranking
order (Beneficiaries/Km), but with consideration given to geographical bidding
constraints and the advantages of forming bidding packages (see para. 3.67)
according to a format and timing acceptable to the Bank;
(b)    A limit of US$15,000 equivalent per kilometer of rural road would be placed on cost
of spot improvements; and
(c)    Agreement was reached at negotiations that SEDESOL would promote the transfer of
the rehabilitated federal roads to the state's road inventory for their subsequent
maintenance by the state (see para. 4.1(h)).
(b) Routine Maintenance Program (US$13 million)
3.38   The project would support a labor based strategy to handle routine maintenance activities
The project would provide for the routine maintenance of about 12,500 km of rehabilitated rural
roads to be carried out by contracted lengthmen (peon caminero), which number would increase from
about 1,200 lengthmen during year two of the project to 6,300 during year four. A set of standard
annual contracts would be signed between the interested municipalities and the lengthmen, with the
assistance of the SRAs. A model of routine maintenance contract was agreed with the Bank and is
included in the draft Project Operational Manual (see para. 4.1(e)).



- 29 -
(c) Institutional Strengthening of State Road Agencies (US$5 million)
3.39    The outline plan for institutional development and the strategy for establishing the ITG and
the MSUs was confirmed at negotiations and included in the draft Project Operational Manual (see
para. 4.1(d) and Annex H). The action program for strengthening rural road subsector administration
includes:
(a)    Rural Road Network Information and Monitoring System (US$1.7 million).
Approximately 66 person-months of technical assistance would be provided by the
project to help develop and start the implementation of a rural road network
information and monitoring system. Related training would also be provided for key
management and technical staff. The summary TOR for this effort was confirmed
during negotiations (see para. 4.1(d)).
(b)    Engineering Guidelines and Design (US$.4 million). Technical assistance (21 person-
months) would be provided to further develop the spot improvement guidelines and to
train staff of SRAs in the implementation of the methodology, including the
application of the environmental assessment checklist. This technical assistance would
be linked to that described above for the rural road network information and
monitoring system. During negotiations, the summary TOR for this effort was
confirmed (see para. 4.1(d)).
(c)   Inter-state Technical Group (US$.2 million). The project would create an 1TG,
bringing together road agency representatives of the eight states. The 1TG would hold
periodic meetings (at least three times annually) to share experience, develop
approaches and methodologies, propose technical and managerial improvements
including contract and project management systems, and propose and organize traini;ng
activities common to the eight SRAs. The project would provide support for the
organization and implementation of the periodic meetings of the ITO. Assurances
were provided at negotiations that the Rural Roads IT would continue to function
throughout the project (see paras. 4.1(g) and 4.10)).
(d)    Municipal Support Unit (US$.2 million). An MSU would be created in each SRA to
achieve greater municipal and community participation in the implementation of spot
improvement works and routine maintenance of the rural roads. The MSU would also
help the municipalities with their engineering design related to road or street projects
to be financed under Municipal Funds. Assurances were provided at negotiations that
the MSU for rural roads would be established in each state no later than June 30,
1995 (see paras. 4.1(g) and 4.1(i)).
(e)    Training Pgraems (US$2.5 million) would be implemented that would focus on
technical, environmental assessment and managerial skills. They would include
equipment, course support expenses, attendance at seminars and conferences, and
study visits both in Mexico and abroad. One specific area of focus of the training
program would be to assist the SRAs to develop a strategy and plan for rural roads
construction.



- 30 -
5. Income-Generating Component
(US$12 million total cost, including contingencies)
3.40   The project will provide support to the development and implementation of the strategies
identified in paras. 2.18 to 2.26, but would focus principally on: (a) technical assistance, training and
investment to pilot improved approaches to agriculture investment by state-level agriculture agencies
(US$8 million); and (b) technical assistance and training to strengthen the identification and
development of income-generating subprojects within the Municipal Funds program (US$4 million).
In both cases, support for these programs would include support to indigenous areas and to women's
groups.
3.41 SEDESOL's outline plan for this component was presented during negotiations, to be further
developed and agreed with the Bank as a condition of disbursement for the component (see para.
4.3). Once agreed, component guidelines would be incorporated as an annex to the Project
Operational Manual. Information regarding the general outline of this component is presented in
Annex I.
6. SEDESOL Institutional Strengthening and Project Coordination
(US$35 million total cost, including contingencies)
3.42   The objective of this component is to strengthen the capacity of SEDESOL to oversee the
Solidarity programs and related institutional development efforts to be financed by the project (see
Annex D). Project financing will be used to strengthen project coordination in several ways:
(a)    PCU and MSU Consulting Services (US$26.3 million). The central and state level
PCUs would contract long term consulting services of approximately 16 experts in the
central PCU and an average of 7 experts in each state level PCU in key areas of
technical expertise to assist in the technical supervising of each component. In
addition, an engineer and community participation specialist would be contracted for
each of the Rural Water Supply and Rural Roads MSU in each state (see Annex D,
Attachment I, Table 1).
(b)    Technical Assistance. Training and Studies (US$2.7 million). Approximate 3 person-
months per year of a senior consultant would be used in each of the five project
components to strengthen SEDESOLs capacity to supervise project implementation
(US$1 million). Training would be provided to PCU staff at central and state level in
the use of computer programs for data management and analysis (USS.7 million).
Special studies (US$1 million) would be conducted to address topics related to project
implementation and to the general project objectives. Specifically, a study will be
contracted by the PCU, to be completed prior to July 1996, regarding the relative
efficiency and effectiveness of procurement by communities compared to other
contracting methods. Other studies would be defined during the course of project
implementation (See Annex D, Attachment I, TIble 2.)
(c)    Project Physical Performance Evaluations and Mid-Thrm Proiect Review (US$1.3
million). Project physical performance evaluations (PPEs) would be conducted
annually, beginning in 1996, and focus on assessing the effectiveness and efficiency of
individual subproject investments of each project component, based on field visits to a



- 31 -
sample of subprojects. The summary TORs for the physical performance evaluations
are to be finalized and agreed, and included in the Project Operational Manual. In
addition, technical assistance would be required to complete studies for each
component for the mid-term project review, to occur b)y March 1997. The mid-term
project review studies would be completed by no later than December 1996 (see
paras. 3.81-3.82).
(d)    Computer Eguipment and Software (US$1.7 million). Computer equipment, software
and related office equipment would be acquired to increase the capacity of the state
level PCU and SEDESOL Delegations, and the central PCU, to install and manage
the project information and monitoring system.
3.43   In addition, annual project audits would be financed by this component (US$3 million).
Assurances were provided at negotiations that the Bank would review the TORs and qualifications of
personnel contracted to assist the central and state PCUs and the MSUs (see para. 4.1(v)).
E. Environmental Assessment
3.44   The proposed project supports the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing rural
infrastructure, including rural roads, water supply and schools. Construction of new infrastructure is
limited mainly to small scale water supply systems, small productive enterprises, school buildings,
and related infrastructure. The rural roads component would be limited to activities of spot
improvement and maintenance. The project has been rated 'B," as no major environmental issues are
foreseen.
3.45    In the rural roads component, no significant direct or indirect negative enviromnental impact
are expected from spot improvement and routine maintenance actions. Final engineering designs
prepared on the basis of the agreed technical guidelines for the spot improvement program, which
include actions to alleviate, reverse, or offset direct environmental impacts, in particular those related
to erosion and siltation. By their very nature, spot improvements and routine maintenance focus on
identification, diagnosis and elimination of erosion problems. Since the selected roads are existing
ones and among the oldest in the rural road network, additional indirect negative impacts linked with
human activities are almost nonexistent. However, the project would support training and seminars of
state highway officials on environment standards and corresponding technical solutions in order to
improve their skills in assessing the environmental impact of road works. In both the rural water
supply and rural roads components, subproject appraisal procedures include the use of a checklist to
identify environmental issues.
F. Poverty Category
3.46   Program of Targeted Interventions. Project investments will be targeted to the poor rural
areas of eight of the poorest states of Mexico. Targeting will be achieved in several ways: (a) the
kinds of projects financed (e.g., small, inexpensive projects for water supply, earthen roads, and
school classrooms); (b) implementation by community groups, with investments managed directly by
communities; (c) in the rural road rehabilitation and maintenance subprojects, laborers will be paid
for their work, thus resulting in employment generation for the poor; and (d) channeling of direct
investment to rural areas, with no localities above 5,000 population, where the poor in these states are
concentrated. Indigenous communities and womens groups are to be specifically targeted within the
pilot income-generating component (see para. 3.90 and Annex I).



- 32 -
G. Project Costs and Financing
1. Costs
3.47   Total project costs, including price contingencies, are estimated at US$1,095 million
equivalent. Baseline costs are estimated at US$1036 million and price contingencies between
negotiations and project completion are estimated to be US$59 million equivalent. Estimated average
construction costs for the water supply rehabilitation and construction program and the rural roads
spot improvement program are based on an analysis of the experience in the first DRD project.
Annual price increases were applied to local and foreign costs in all categories at a rate of 2.2
percent. Physical contingencies are not included because unlike many other projects, subproject
investments are not pre-identified but will consist of a large number of subprojects to be selected
during the course of implementation up to prescribed category limits. All of project financing, except
for the financing of the rural roads maintenance program, is being provided for investment rather than
recurrent costs. Table 1 below summarizes the estimated costs by component and subcomponent.
2. Financing
3.48   The Bank loan will be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace period, and will
bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The proposed Bank loan of US$500 million would
finance about 46 percent of total costs, including 100 percent of all technical assistance and training
(excluding taxes), 90 percent of equipment, 50 percent of all engineering, project coordination, and
all investment costs except for investments managed by communities (i.e., Municipal Funds, Escuela
Digna, and some water supply subprojects). In the case of community-managed investments,
beneficiaries would contribute 20 percent of subproject costs and the Bank and the Government would
each finance 40 percent. In total, benefiting communities are expected to provide US$152 million, 14
percent of total project cost, including contributions in both cash and kind (see Tbble 2). The loan
will be made to NAFIN which will sign an agreement with the Government for the transfer of loan
proceeds to the executing agency, SEDESOL.
H. Project Organization and Managernent
1. Implementing Agencies
3.49   SEDESOL is responsible for overall project implementation, through its Direccidn General de
Programas de Desarrollo Regional, located in the Subsecretarfa de Desarrollo Regional. All
investment programs supported by the project are financed by the National Solidarity Program, with
the federal budget line 26 (ramo 26) providing the federal share of the federal/state matching
Solidarity grant. Although federal funds are combined with state funds (at a ratio of 75/25 in the case
of the eight project states), the federal government (i.e., SEDESOL) must approve the proposed
allocation of these funds by the states as well as the decision to finance specific subprojects.
3.50   The use of Solidarity funds are subject to the guidelines and procedures defined in the Manual
Unico de Solidaridad. In addition, as a condition of loan effectiveness, SEDESOL will issue the
agreed Project Operational Manual, as an annex to the Solidarity manual, establishing additional
guidelines and conditions for each component to be financed by the project (see Annex D for outline
of Project Operational Manual).



- 33 -
Table 1
Estimated Project Costs V
(USS million)
Project Components                         Local          Foreign            Total
A. Municipal Investment & Institutional Dev.
- Investment, Municipal Funds 1'                492              123              615
- Investment, Escuela Digna                      38               10               48
- Technical Assistance/Studies                    12              12               23
- TrainingMbrking Groups                          3                1                3
- Purchase of Equipment                            4               4                8
- Subtotal (base cost)                          549              149              697
B. Rural Water Supply
- Investment Program                             109              47              156
- Engineering                                     8                1                9
- Technical Assistance/Studies                    1                1                1
- TrainingMbrking Groups                          2                0                2
- Purchase of Equipment                           0                0                0
- Subtotal (base Cost)                           120              49              168
C Rural Roads Rehabilitation & Maintenance
- Spot Improvement                               74               32              106
- Routine Maintenance                            12                0               12
- Engineering                                     3                0                3
- Technical Assistance/Studies                     1               1                2
- TrainingtUbrking Groups                         2                0                2
- Purchase of Equipment                           0                0                1
- Subtotal (base cost)                           92               34              125
D. Inome-Genrati  Invstments
- Investments                                      5               1                6
-  bohnical Assisance/Studies                    2                2                4
- Training/Abrking Groups                          1               0                1
- Purchau of Equipment                             0               0                1
- Subtotal (base ost)                              8               3               12
E  SEDESOL Ins. Strength. & Prject Coord.
- Coordination Support                            22               2               24
- Technical Assistancerlhining/Studics             2               2                4
- Purchase of Equipment                            1                1               2
- Audit                                            3               0                3
- Subtotal (base cost)                            27               6               33
lbtal Basline Coss                                       796              240             1036
Prioe Contingencies                                       45               14               59
Total Project Costs                                      841              2S4             1095
Financing Plan                                            LOcal          Fbrelp              IbXtl
(USS million)
IBRD                                                     246              254              500
Fedeal and State Governments                             443                0              443
Beneficiaries                                            152                0              152
Total                                                    841              234             1095
iFgu    ' am add up due lob iumt.
2w' hcfd aq..mu coam (up to 10%)



- 34 -
Table 2
Project Financing Plan '
(USS million)
Project Component                          Total               Fed & State Govts.     Benefic.
Cost      IBRD          of Mexico         Farmeen
A. Municipal Investment & Institutional Dev.
- Investment, Municipal Fundsh'           615        246                 246             123
- Investment, Escuela Digna                48         19                  19              10
- Technical Assistanc/Swudies              23         23                   0               -
- TainingVbrking Groups                     3          3                   0
- Purchase of Equipment                     8          7                   1               -
- Subtotal (base Cost)                    697        299                 266             133
B. Rural Water Supply
- Investment Program                      156         73                  73              10
- Engineering                               9          S                                   -
- Technical Assistanmc, Studies             1          1                   0               -
- ThiningIWorking Groups                    2          2                   0               -
- Puehas of Equipment                       0          0                   0               -
- Subtotal (bue Cost)                     168         81                  78              10
C  Rural Roads Rehabilitation & Maintenanc
-Spot Improvnment                         106         53                  53               -
- Routine Maintenance                      12          6                   6               -
- Engineering                               3          2                   2               -
- Technical Assistanoc/Studies              2          2                   0
- Tlsining/Wrking Group                     2          2                   0               -
- Pumhae of Equipmaet                       1          1                   0               -
- Subtotal (base cost)                    125         65                  61               0
IL Ineoe-Generatg Inglvestment
- Invmtments                                6          2                   2               1
- Technical AssitancelStudies               4          4                   0               -
- Tlriningwbrking Groups                     1         1                   0
- Purchase of Equipment                      1         0                   0               -
- Subtotal (baecost)                       12          a                   2               1
L SEDESOL Inst. Strength. & ProJeCt Coord.
- Coozdinaion Support                      24         12                   12
- Tech. Aukisno ining/sufies                4          4                   0                -
- Pumhaseof Equipment                       2          2                   0               -
- Audis                                     3          3                   0
- Subtol (bae   cost)                      33         21                   12              0
Btaaseline Cogt (US$m)                          1036        473                 419             144
Price Contlngmeas                                   59        27                   24               a
ITa PROJECT COST (US$m)                           1095       50D                  443             152
J' ft- .  am ad y d b mad".
F bcbdm wiAas eam (up I 101%)



- 35 -
3.51   The role of SEDESOL, in the Solidarity program in general and in the project specifically, is
to: (a) establish and disseminate each year the guidelines for the implementation of each Solidarity
program; (b) together with SHCP and the state governments, establish an overall Solidarity budget for
each state; (c) review and agree with each state on its proposed allocation of Solidarity funds among
the over 30 Solidarity programs (including those financed by the project); (d) specifically authorize
and then approve the allocation of funds to individual subprojects; (e) supervise the implementation of
Solidarity programs, monitoring compliance with program guidelines as well as assessing quality of
implementation; and (f) support activities, including technical assistance, studies and training, which
will strengthen the capacity of local and state entities to implement Solidarity programs, as well as the
general capacity of these governments to respond effectively to the needs of their poorest citizens.
3.52   Responsibility for the implementation of the Solidarity program within state governments lies
with the State Planning Secretariats and the COPLADEs, which the Planning Secretary heads. States
accept responsibility for Solidarity through the CDS and its Anexos de Ejecuci6n (see para. 3.10).
3.53   SEDESOL Central and State Level Project Coordination Units. Tb carry out its activities
with regard to the project states and the specific Solidarity programs to be financed by the project,
SEDESOL created for the implementation of the first DRD project a specific department (Direcci6n
de Programas Especiales) within its normal structure to perform the roles of planning, provision of
technical guidance, monitoring, and evaluation. Through this department, also called the PCU, the
implementation of project-financed Solidarity programs in the four states received significantly more
supervision attention than the implementation of the same or similar programs in other states, and
financing of subprojects within these programs was subject to specific eligibility requirements imposed
by the project. In addition, the PCU was responsible for working with the state governments to
strengthen the capacity of state agencies and to address general policy and administrative reform
issues related to strengthening the fiscal and administrative capability of municipalities.
3.54   The PCU would continue to function in the Second DRD project, becoming responsible for
the eight project states and each of the programs to be financed by the project. To strengthen the
PCU, it would be re-organized into four program units, one for each project component, plus an
administrative unit to provide support for procurement, disbursement, monitoring, and information
management. A separate unit would not be established for monitoring and evaluation; rather, given
the important technical issues involved in each program, each program unit would be responsible for
monitoring and reporting in its area. The evaluation function would be the responsibility of the PCU
Director, who would depend on contracted evaluations, including the physical performance
evaluations, the mid-term review of each component, and the project audits (see paras. 3.69 and 3.81
to 3.82).
3.55   Th strengthen the coordination and oversight of the project, a small state level PCU would be
established within the SEDESOL delegations of each project state, whose staffing and functions would
mirror those of the central PCU. In order to strengthen the capacity of each of these units, the
project would finance a limited number of long term consultants that would add needed engineering,
agriculture, municipal development, and information management expertise (see para. 3.42 and
Annex D). 'Me functions and staffing of the central and state level PCUs were confirmed at
negotiations and will be contained in a Supplemental Letter. In addition, assurances were given at
negotiations for the maintenance of these units during the project (see para. 4.1(u)).



- 36 -
3.56 State Government Implementation Roles and Responsibilities. The State Planning Secretariat
is the state agency responsible to SEDESOL for the implementation of all investment in the project
components. In the case of the municipal investment and institutional development component, the
State Planning Secretariat: (a) decides on the distribution of Municipal Funds to each municipality,
based on a formula previously agreed with SEDESOL and the Bank; (b) decides on the distribution of
Escuela Digna funds based on proposals by municipalities; (c) is the first line of responsibility to
ensure compliance with program guidelines by municipalities and line agencies; (d) together with the
State Finance Secretariat, is responsible for the program of institutional development for
municipalities; and (e) together with SEDESOL is responsible for the implementation of the program
to provide access to engineering and related technical assistance to municipal governments in support
of their investment programs.
3.57   For the rural water supply and rural roads components, the State Planning Secretariat would
depend on the relevant state line agencies for component implementation and oversight. Within each
state water supply and road agency, an MSU would be established (see paras. 3.29(d) and 3.39(d)).
These units would assist rural and semi-rural municipalities in the identification, design and
implementation of works to be financed through other programs, including the Municipal Funds. In
the case of rural roads, the MSU would provide training and technical assistance to municipalities for
the implementation of the labor intensive drainage works within the spot improvement program and
for the initiation of the municipal road maintenance program. For the income-generating component,
specific agency roles and responsibilities would be identified in the plan for the component, to be
agreed as a condition of disbursemnent of the component (see para. 4.3).
3.58   Municipal Government Implementation Roles and Responsibilities. Municipal governments
are responsible for the identification, selection, and implementation of the investment programs
financed by the project as part of the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs. In these
programs, subprojects are implemented by citizen Solidarity Committees with the municipality
responsible for advancing funds to these committees, and for then presenting to the COPLADE
required documentation of expenditures and proof of successful subproject completion. In the water
supply and rural roads project components, municipalities may enter into contracts with the
responsible state agencies in order to complete specific works, including labor intensive aspects of the
road rehabilitation program, the road maintenance program, and the implementation of simple water
supply works. The role of the municipality in each of these programs is further described in Annexes
F, G and H.
3.59   Because implementation of the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs is being
undertaken by 1,408 municipalities and their communities in the eight states, considerable resources
would be devoted by the State Planning Secretariats and SEDESOL to periodic training and
orientation of municipal officials, and to monitoring of project implementation. In addition,
evaluations of the Municipal Funds have demonstrated the importance of increasing the availability of
technical assistance to communities and municipalities, especially for the design of their subprojects
(see para. 2.32). Regional offices of SEDESOL and the states, already established, would provide
some technical support to municipalities, along with the MSUs established in the SWAs and SRAs.
In addition, special technical assistance programs would be established in each state to provide
increased access by municipalities to technical assistance (see para. 3.22).
3.60   Citizen Participation. Implementation Roles and Responsibilities. Citizen participation is very
strong in the municipal investment component, where a percentage of project financing is directly



- 37 -
contributed by the benefiting group or community, and where that group or community is responsible
for managing subproject implementation. This means that the Solidarity Committee purchases needed
materials, skilled labor and technical assistance; organizes the contribution of the community (often
provided through unskilled labor); and supervises project implementation. A Solidarity Committee is
established for each subproject, with its officers selected in open assembly. In the case of the
Municipal Funds, the presidents of these committees also become citizen members of the MSCs,
responsible for establishing program investment priorities and for supervising the implementation of
all subprojects. Citizen committees are also active in the rural water supply component, where a
water committee is established for each system and is responsible for ongoing O&M. While
Solidarity Committees are also established for the rural roads component, there is no expectation that
these committees contribute to the cost of subprojects, as these rural roads, selected because of their
high level of use, are considered a broad public good. In this case the Solidarity Committee fulfills
the function of ensuring that local communities are aware of the subproject and participate, as needed,
in its planning.
3.61 Inter-State Technical Groups and Municipal Presidents Working Groups. Project management
and coordination would be enhanced by the continuation of ITs that were established during project
preparation. Meetings of the four lTGs groups (for fiscal strengthening, Municipal Funds, rural
water supply, and rural roads (see paras. 3.21(f), 3.21(g), 3.29(e) and 3.39(c)) would be held at least
three times per year, with the participation of the Bank resident engineer and Bank supervision
missions when possible. An MPWG would be established in each state to ensure contact between the
supervision of the project and representatives of the ultimate clients of the investments. The MPWGs
were initiated during project preparation, and would be continued during project implementation, with
at least two meetings held in each state per year. Representation of the MPWGs would be added to
the Fiscal Strengthening and Municipal Funds ITGs. Description of the structure, role, and
responsibilities of these lTGs and the state level MPWGs were confirmed at negotiations as part of
the Project Operational Manual, and assurances were provided by Government that these groups
would continue to function during project implementation (see paras. 4.1(g), 4. 10) and 4.1(1k)).
2. Procurement
3.62   Procurement of small works of under US$50,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$756
million, would be done through the direct contracting of local Solidarity Committees within the
Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs, and the rural water supply and rural roads
components. Although the cost of individual works may not exceed US$50,000, the average sizes of
the works are expected to be less than US$15,000 in the case of Municipal Funds and less than
US$3,000 in the case of Escuela Digna. In those two programs combined, approximately 15,000
subprojects would be implemented each year by an equal number of community Solidarity
Committees, contracted for the specific work by the municipal government. This procurement mode
of contracting implementation to local community committees would allow for: (a) implementation of
works that would not attract local contractors because of their small size, inaccessible locations, and
wide scattering throughout each state's rural areas; (b) poor, rural communities to dircly manage
investments and to make the required 20 percent contribution to the work through the donation of
unskilled labor and local materials; (c) subproject selection to be limited to those works for which the
beneficiary community is willing to both contribute to and physically supervise; and (d) local
communities to take an active role in the development process with their municipal government and,
through this process, strengthen their ability to work with and influence investment decisions of that
government.



- 38 -
3.63   Procurement for these works would be achieved through their direct contracting to Solidarity
Committees through municipal governments. The municipal government would supervise
implementation and be legally responsible for the works to the state and federal governments. The
Solidarity Committee is an officially recognized entity formed by members of a community to support
the implementation of a specific investment in their area. The contracting of each work to a
Solidarity Committee would be supported by a technical proposal and budget, summarized in the
oficio de aprobaci6n, signed by SEDESOL. Once a work has been approved through the oficio, the
Committee would be given an advance payment by the municipality in order to begin implementation.
Proof of successful implementation of the work, and justification for reimbursement by the Special
Account, however, would be provided by the acta de entrega y recepcion, where the completion of
the work, and the total budget expended, is certified by the officers of the Solidarity Committee and
the municipality.
3.64  In those cases where Solidarity Committees lack the capacity to make necessary purchases of
materials, municipal governments uould make purchases on their behalf. Procurement by
municipalities for these materials must follow procedures acceptable to the Bank for the procurement
of goods under local shopping (for purchases of goods costing US$100,000 or less) or local
competitive bidding (for purchases exceeding US$100,000).
3.65  In the first DRD project, procurement of works was also done through the local Solidarity
Committees in the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs. Experience of the first project has
been reviewed in the annual project audits, an independent study of Municipal Funds in 50
municipalities in Oaxaca, and frequent field supervision visits. These reviews have demonstrated that
the active participation of the beneficiary communities and the Solidarity Committees in these
subprojects resulted in effective controls being placed on the use of financial resources and the
process of procurement of materials. Works were consistently carried out for substantially less than if
they had been contracted, planned physical targets were often exceeded by the Solidarity Committees,
and there were few indications of occurrences of misprocurement. In order to understand better the
effectiveness of community implementation and procurement, a specific study of procurement
practices by these community group would be carried out in the first year of project implementation.
Assurances were given at negotiations that this study would be completed by December 1995 (see
para. 4.1(n) and 3.69).
3.66   The rural water supply component would involve contracting works and purchase of goods by
SWAs. In addition, works contracts under US$50,000 may be contracted by state agencies to
Solidarity Committees, through municipal governments, for the implementation of simple works. In
this case, the same approach to procurement used in the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna
programs would be used. The benefiting community would be responsible for subproject
implementation through the Solidarity Committee, and it would contribute at least 20 percent of the
cost of the subproject. The rural roads component would involve contracting works and purchase of
goods by the SRAs and the direct contracting of municipalities for specific, labor intensive
rehabilitation and maintenance works. In the case of the direct contracting of rural roads works only,
unskilled community labor would not be considered a community contribution, but would be financed
within the subproject (see pam. 3.60).



- 39 -
3.67   Procurement fbr civil works costing US$350,000 equivalent or less and for goods costing
US$100,000 or less could be done through local shopping. There would be up to US$126 million
aggregate amount of local shopping for works, and up to US$20 million aggregate amount of local
shopping for goods. Procurement for civil works contracts below USS10 million and above
US$350,000 and for good costing less than US$350,000 equivalent and more than US$100,000
would be done through local competitive bidding (LCB), under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
This is expected to account for US$96 million or 9 percent of project costs. It is not anticipated that
there will be any ICB for goods or works within the project. To encourage competition and ensure
interest by contractors, whenever feasible, contracts for rural road rehabilitation will be grouped into
contract packages expected to cost not less that US$50,000.
3.68   Model contracts and agreements to be used in the direct contracting of Municipal Funds,
Escuela Digna, rural water supply, and rural road rehabilitation and maintenance were confirmed at
negotiations (see para. 4.1(e)). Standard bidding documents will be used for local competitive
bidding. Consultants will be hired following procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank and by the World Bank as Executing Agency," dated August 1981,
using Bank-issued standard form of contract for time-based assignments and other forms agreed by
the Bank for lump sum assignments and individual consultants. All consultant terms of reference
would be subject to Bank prior review. Contracts, short lists, and selection procedures for technical
assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank when the value of the contract is
US$100,000 or more, for consulting firms or US$50,000 or more for employment of individuals.
3.69   Table 3 shows the procurement procedures for the project. Prior review of procurement
documentation by the Bank would include the first two LCB contracts for works and for goods in
each state, regardless of size, all LCB contracts for works over US$2 million, and the first direct
contract for water supply and for rural roads in each state. Although the level of Bank prior review
of procurement would be low, it would be compensated for in several ways. Onte, a special study of
procurement by community-contracting would be carried out during the first year of the project (see
Paras. 3.65 and 4.1(n)); two, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would be conducted using the
project infDrmation and monitoring system in order to detect possible procurement problems; three,
the project physical performance evaluation would look at procurement issues (see para. 3.81 to
3.82); and four, during Bank supervision, random reviews would be conducted of subprojects,
including field visits and review of subproject documentation.



- 40 -
Table 3: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Category             LCB            Other         Total
A. Civil Works
Larger Works                 80                          80
(40)                        (40)
Minor Works                                756'         756
(306)       (306)
1262         126
(63)        (63)
B. Goods                        16             202          36
(11)           (12)         (23)
C Consulting Services                          97           97
l ______________________  ____________         (68)         (68)
Ibtal                           96            999         1095
(51)          (449)        (500)
'Direct Contacting
2 Shopping
N.B. Figues in parenthesis are amounts, including contingencies,
ecpected to be financed by the Bank.
3. Disbursements
3.70   The borrower, NAFIN, will establish a special account in U.S. Dollars in the Banco de
Mexico, with an authorized allocation of US$40 million, equal to about four months' estimated
average disbursements that are expected to be paid from the account. The estimated disbursement
schedule (see Annex K) is based on the disbursement experience of the first DRD project and does
not reflect the standard disbursement profile for Bank projects in Mexico. Disbursements from the
loan account will be made on a 100 percent, 90 percent or 50 percent basis fbr eligible categories, as
described in Table 4. All disbursements that do not have prior procurement review wvuld be made
on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Use of SOEs for the presentation of wrvrks is
limited to contracts of US$2 million or less; presentation of goods is limited to contracts of
US$350,000 or less; and presentation of consultants' services is limited to contracts with consultiig
firms for less than US$100,000 and with individuals for less than US$50,000. Those contracts that
have prior procurement review would be disbursed against full documentation. The project
completion date is December 31, 1998, and the loan closing date is June 30, 1999. Prior to loan
effectiveness, NAFIN would sign an agreement with the Government for the transfer of loan proceeds
to the executing agency, SEDESOL.



- 41 -
3.71  Information required for the SOEs would be available in the project data base (see paras.
3.75 to 3.77), updated monthly by the state SEDESOL offices based on supportive documents
received from the executing agencies. All SOEs wuld be transmitted through NAFIN. Prior to
submission of any SOEs to NAFIN, however, SEDESOL would submit to the Bank information
regarding the subprojects in the current disbursement request, in a reporting form called the tablero
de desembolso. At negotiations assurances were provided that these reports would be submitted by
SEDESOL prior to making disbursement requests (see para. 4.1(r)). This procedure was developed
and used during the first DRD project, as it: (a) permits SEDESOL and the Bank to rapidly review
the eligibility of subprojects prior to including them on a SOE; and (b) creates an accurate data base
of information regarding all subprojects financed through the life of the project. The normal Bank
procedure of reviewing annual plans at the beginning of each fiscal year would be continued, but final
subproject eligibility decisions would be based on this documentation that would be available prior to
the disbursement request.
3.72   This procedure means that the Bank would receive at the time of the PCU's submission of
requests for disbursement (the SOEs) to NAFIN, a cumulated account of project implementation
providing information on each subproject of the rural water supply, rural roads, and income-
generating components, and the municipal strengthening subcomponent of the municipal investment
and strengthening component, as well as cumulative information of the implementation of the
Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs by municipality. For example, in the case of the rural
roads component, the identification numbers of roads included for rehabilitation mould be reviewed to
ensure that they coincide with those on a pre-determined list of eligible roads and that the cost of
rehabilitation does not exceed US$15,000 per km (see paras. 3.33 and 3.36-3.37). In the case of
Municipal Funds, only a specific percentage of the total funds given to a municipality would be
permitted to be invested in the municipal cabecera. These and other eligibility requirements could be
checked rapidly through this process, and any subproject not meeting requirements mould not be
included in the SOE for project reimbursement.
3.73   Retroactive financing will be available up to a maximum of US$40 million (8% of the loan
amount) for eligible expenditures occurring after the start of the appraisal mission (February 1, 1994),
for institutional development activities and Municipal Funds, which have been agreed by the Bank at
appraisal. This will allow SEDESOL and the four states not in;luded in the first DRD project to
begin priority institutional development activities and will provide support for Municipal Funds, an
area of project investment for which guidelines agreed by the Bank have already been established and
instituted in each of the new states.



- 42 -
Table 4
Allocation of Loan Amount
Percentage to be financed and Project Component by Disbursement Category
Disbursement Category/       Project Component No.       Allocation of       Expenditures to be
Description                                        Loan Amount              Fmanced
(USS million)             (%)
1. For the Municipal
Investment and
Institutional Development
(MIID) Component
a. vorks under direct                    1                        263.5               50
contracting
b. construction materials                1                         10                 50
c. goods (other thn
construction materials)               1                          8                 90
d. technical assistance
and training                          1                         27                 100
2. For thc Rurml VAter Supply
(RWS) and Rural Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenanoe
(RR) Component:
a. wori under direct                    2,3                        40                 SO
contacting
b. wvrh other than (a) above            2,3                        90                 SO
c. goods                                2,3                         2                 90
d. engineering services                 2,3                         6.5               50
c. technical asuiance and               2,3                         8                 100
3. For the Income-Gencating
Component:
a. w%ork                                 4                          3                 50
b. goods                                 4                          1                 90
c. technical asistance and               4                          5                 100
raining
4. For SEDESOL strengthening
and Project Coordination
Component.
a  goods                                 S                          2                 90
b. long-term consuting
services                              5                          13                50
c. technical assince and
training                              S                           5                100
d. audits                                5                          3                 100
5. Unallocated                            N.A.                         13               N.A.
1TW  for AI Categori                                                 500.0
Component No. 1 - Municipal _vestent and Instutional Development
Component No. 2 - Rurl Vtr Supply
Component No. 3 - Rural Roads Rehabiltion and Mainteane
Component No. 4 - Incomo-Genetating Component
Component No. 5 - SEDESOL Institutional Strmngthening/Pojct Coordination



- 43 -
4. Accounts and Audits
3.74   SEDESOL and the state level implementing agencies will maintain project identified accounts.
A certified copy of the project audit, to be made by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
in accordance with the March 1982 Bank documents "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing
of Projects Financed by the World Bank," will be submitted to the Bank not more that nine months
after the completion of each fiscal year. The reason for allowing nine months for the submission of
reports rather than six is that because of the decentralized nature of project investments, information
regarding the previous year's expenditures are not completely available until four months after the end
of the fiscal year, that is, the end of April. The audit report will include a separate opinion by the
auditor on disbursements against certified SOEs. At negotiations, assurances were provided that
project accounts would be audited using procedures acceptable to the Bank (see paras. 3.43, 4.1()).
5. Monitoring of Project Implementation and Bank Supervision
3.75   The project would use a system for implementation monitoring, including the development of
a data base for capturing key technical, financial and social information for each subproject. The data
base information system, including its data inputs and outputs, was designed during the first DRD
project and has been partially implemented in the four DRD project states. During 1994, the system
would be fully installed in the SEDESOL delegations in these four states and expanded to the four
new project states, as a condition of loan effectiveness (see para. 4.2(b)).
3.76   The system for monitoring project implementation is divided into two major steps: (a) review
of annual plans; and (b) analysis of implementation. Annual plans are developed for each component,
including its institutional development activities, and are reviewed by the Bank at the beginning of
each fiscal year. The institutional development plans would be discussed and agreed each year, and
monitoring would be based on the agreed plan. At negotiations, assurances were provided that
institutional development activities for each component would be carried out on the basis of annual
plan provided to the Bank for review no later than January 31 of each year and approved by the Bank
(see para. 4.1(m)). The investment plans for each component would be treated as indicative plans,
with the understanding that detailed monitoring would be done of investments as they are approved by
SEDESOL, and final decisions on project eligibility based on information available at disbursement
(see parm. 3.71).
3.77   Because of the large number of total subproject investments and the decentralized nature of
implementation, the analysis of implementation will depend on the functioning of a central data base
of subproject information that is created in each state by the SEDESOL delegations, and consolidated
at the national level. Input to the data base would be made from a standard 'data sheet' (see Annex
C) at the point of subproject authorization, with the information updated at each step of the subproject
approval process. The data base system is designed so that reports required by SEDESOL's normal
approval procedures (for autorizacidn, aprobacidn and ejecucidn) are automatically created, thus
providing incentives to field staff to use the system.
3.78 Project implementation would be reported on regularly by SEDESOL. At negotiations,
agreement was reached on the project implementation indicators and project reporting requirements,
to be included in a Supplemental Letter (see para. 4.1(p) and Annex C, Attachments I and II).
Assurances were provided at negotiations that: (a) the project information and monitoring system
would be maintained throughout the project; (b) implementation reports using formats agreed with the



- 44 -
Bank would be presented three times in a year, of project administrative commitments and activities
by July 31 and January 31, and of actual project execution by June 30 of the following year; (c) a
summary of project achievements compared with project implementation indicators would be
presented by June 30 of each year; (d) that a copy of the information available from SEDESOL's
central project data base would be provided to the Bank on computer diskette at the end of every
quarter; (e) that the PCU would conduct field reviews in each state of the implementation of each
project component (municipal investment and institutional development, rural water supply, rural
roads, and income-generating activities) and would report on the results of these reviews in the semi-
annual and annual reports. In addition to regular, semi-annual reviews, a physical performance
evaluation would be held in 1996, 1997, and 1998 (see para. 4.1(s) and Annex C). A mid-term
project implementation review would occur no later than March, 1997 (see paras. 3.81, 4.1(o),
4.1(q), and 4.1(t)).
3.79  In addition to these reports on the status of annual implementation plans, valuable information
regarding the cumulative status of project implementation by municipality and by subproject would be
provided by the disbursement reports (see paras. 3.71-3.72). This cumulative report would allow for
the monitoring of multi-year subprojects which are likely to occur in the rural water supply, rural
roads and income-generating components.
3.80   Monitoring progress would be a key responsibility of both the PCU and the state project unit,
which would be responsible for generating and analyzing these implementation reports and feeding
back the results to decision-makers at SEDESOL and state agencies. The results would also be used
by the PCU to target its ongoing field reviews of implementation and the mid-term project review.
Responsibility for project monitoring would not be given to a specific monitoring and evaluation unit.
Rather, the PCU sub-unit responsible for the technical oversight of each component would also be
responsible for ensuring the quality and timeliness of data collection and for producing and analyzing
reports. These reports would be presented by project component and would be used during the
meetings of the lTGs to help the groups diagnose technical and institutional implementation issues,
propose and conduct needed studies; and plan institutional development technical assistance and
training activities. The PCU would have a minimum of two computer and information specialists to
manage the overall system and to assist the technical specialists in the design and use of the
monitoring system. The state project units would also have a minimum of two computer and
information specialist to carry out similar functions at that level.
6. Project Physical Performance Evaluations and Mid-term Review
3.81   A physical performance evaluation would be conducted annually, beginning in 1996, on a
sample of subprojects within each executing agency.2' The evaluation would focus primarily on the
procurement procedures followed, the quality and cost of works, goods and services procured, and
issues related to the sustainability of the investment. The TOR for the performance evaluation would
be agreed with the Government and included in the Project Operational Manual, to be completed and
agreed as a condition of loan effectiveness (see para. 4.2(a)).
21. In the cae of Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna, a sample of municipalities would be
fviewed.



- 45 -
3.82   In addition, a project mid-term review would to analyze the first two years of implementation
experience. Input to the mid-term review would include: (a) the central and state PCUs' ongoing
field reviews of each component, as presented in their six month monitoring reports; (b) reports and
analysis generated from the project information data base; (c) results of the project physical
performance evaluation; and (c) additional reviews of each component to be contracted by the PCU.
The purpose of the mid-term review would be to assist SEDESOL, the participating states, and the
Bank in identifying project successes and problems to be addressed, and to identify needed
modifications to project procedures for the second half of the project. At negotiations, assurances
were provided that a review of each component would be contracted and completed no later than
December 1996, under TORs agreed with the Bank, and that the mid-term project review would be
held no later than March, 1997 (see para. 4.1(t)).
I. Project Benefits and Economic Evaluation
3.83   The project would benefit poor rural municipalities in Mexico by improving the targeting of
public investment to priority needs of the poor in these municipalities for infrastructure and, on a
pilot basis, to sound income-generating investments. Project municipalities and states would gain
capacity to plan, design, implement and maintain key rural investments primarily benefiting the rural
poor. The project would also strengthen the participation of rural communities in municipal decision-
making, providing them an active role in the selection and implementation of investments.
3.84   Project investments would result in an improved standard of living to approximately 10
million individuals living in relatively isolated rural areas, with the improvement of access roads,
water supply, educational and other basic infrastructure. The rural water supply component
investments will result in raising access to water of rural population in the eight states from 48
percent to 63 percent. Of the 50,000 kilometers of earthen, rural roads in the eight states, 29 percent
(or 15,600 kIn) will receive rehabilitation (spot improvement) and maintenance, resulting in greater
access of approximately 4 million rural dwellers to social services and economic activities.
3.85   Municipal Funds. Investments under the Municipal Funds program are limited to small
subprojects costing no more than US$50,000, but averaging US$15,000, and are selected by rural,
usually very poor, communities. These communities manage the implementation of the investment
through their Solidarity Committees, and must contribute at least 20 percent of the total cost, often
contributed as unskilled labor. Any kind of investment may be selected by the community, with the
exception of municipal buildings, churches, vehicles, and the financing of recurrent costs.
Nevertheless, for the financing of a park, community building or sports facility communities must
contribute a higher percentage of the cost (i.e., 40%). The experience in the first DRD project has
been that communities generally have chosen investments which can be expected to have a very high
rate of return, such as water supply, rehabilitation of roads and schools, and electrification. It is
anticipated that in the Second DRD project this process of community participation in investment
selection, financing and implementation of small subprojects will continue to result in the completion
of valuable infrastructure works of general benefit to the rural poor. The process will be further
strengthened by increasing access to technical assistance, strengthening participation, and improving
targeting of resources to poor communities.
3.86   Rural Water Supply. The benefits expected from the extension of water supply service
includes improvements in the health of poor, rural families as well as reduction of the time spent,



- 46 -
especially by women, in transporting water. Th ensure that the most cost-effective investments are
selected, investments above a specific cost per beneficiary limit would not be supported by the
project, with different limits established depending on whether the complete system was being
constructed or only partly rehabilitated (see pars. 3.27). This approach to establishing subproject
eligibility will prevent the targeting of investments to areas where the benefits, as measured in number
of new users served, are relatively low compared to the subproject cost.
3.87   Rural Roads Rehabilitation. The problem of poor road access to a large proportion of the
rural population has been well documented, as have been the benefits generated by rehabilitation and
maintenance.' Because of its comprehensive geographic coverage, the types of benefits to be
generated by the project wvuld vary in accordance with the specific needs of the communities to be
served. Many of the rural roads are situated in areas of low agricultural productivity with little other
economic activity, and high underemployment. An analysis conducted for the construction of new
rural roads in similar areas in the state of Chiapas in 19853 concluded that road construction
investments costing less than US$450 per inhabitant would be economically viable given the increased
access to outside employment and health and education facilities, and increased value of production in
the area served. The proposed spot improvement prograrn would have an average cost of only US$27
per inhabitant (in 1994 dollars), and would be targeted to those single lane, nonpaved roads with the
greatest surrounding population. Using this the spot improvement method, it is anticipated that small
investments will benefit large numbers of the rural poor population, as well as providing a temporary
source of employment to that same population.
J. Participation of Indigenous Groups and Women
3.88   The participation of indigenous communities in the Municipal Funds program in the first
DRD project was reviewed during the preparation of the Second DRD project. The analysis
demonstrated that communities with over 35 percent indigenous population received two to three
times more funds than communities with lower percentages of indigenous population. However,
when the size of community was controlled for, indigenous and non-indigenous communities fared
equally well in rural communities with 5,000 or less inhabitants. Thus, rural communities have been
successfully targeted by the program, but the presence of indigenous population in those communities
has not affected (either negatively or positively) the targeting of funds. Since the majority of
indigenous peoples are found in rural communities, the targeting of rural communities has succeeded
in targeting indigenous peoples.
3.89   A similar analysis of the participation of women in the first DRD project has not been
possible using existing information. Nevertheless, given the predominant role of women in rural
Mexico in the transport of water, it is likely that the benefits of the rural water supply component and
the Municipal Funds investment in water supply went principally to them and would continue to do so
under the Second DRD project. Better road systems would also assist women, as well as men, in
22. See, for example, the Ghana Feeder Roads Rehabilittion and Maintnnco Project (Cr.
2517-OH, 1991) where an analysis of the proposed rural sad rehabilitation program yielded
a 44 percent ERR.
23. Mexico Chiapas Rural Roads Project (LD. 2525-ME), Staff Appraisal Report, Report
No. 5494-ME, Annex 6, 1985.



- 47 -
gaining access to markets, basic education, better service and more and better assistance with their
health problems. In addition, wvmen have taken active roles in many of the Solidarity Committees,
especially for those involving school construction and rehabilitation, and have been the primary
beneficiaries of the productive-oriented subprojects such as the maize mills.
3.90   Both women's groups and indigenous communities would be included in the pilot income-
generating investment component. The completion of plans fbr the income-generating pilot programs
is a condition of disbursement for the component (see para. 4.3).
K. Project Risks
3.91   Possible risks arise from: (a) the relatively weak institutions at state and municipal levels,
sometimes leading to insufficient technical input in subproject selection and design; (b) number of
institutions involved in project execution leading to overly heavy supervision burden; and (c) the
extent to which general criticisms of Solidarity may reflect on the credibility of the project. To
address these risks, the project limits investment to technically simply, but highly economic works
(e.g., spot improvement of roads, small water supply schemes, etc.); for which simple selection
criteria have been designed and agreed during project preparation, and are being piloted in the first
DRD project. In addition, targeted programs of technical assistance have been designed for each
project component, to be managed by the line agencies responsible, and agreements are being reached
during preparation regarding a timetable for their implementation. lb make project supervision easier
and improve the management of the project, for each component, ITOs would meet quarterly with the
PCU and, when possible, with Bank supervision teams. These meetings would be held by rotation in
different states, providing an opportunity for in-field reviews and for exchange of experience across
the states. By reducing from ten to four the number of sectors inolved in the Second DRD project,
and by limiting the number of executing agencies in each state, the complexity of the first DRD
project has been reduced significantly. Another important simplification is the agreement which
would be reached at appraisal on the specific investment program for rural roads, as well as the
eligibility criteria for selecting water supply projects. In addition, the computerized monitoring
system developed during the first DRD project would continue to be upgraded by SEDESOL and be
used to provide timely analysis of implementation progress and issues in each stat. lb maintain the
credibility of the project, the project will use clear and rational sets of subproject selection criteria,
and will monitor implementation closely, analyzing for possible biasing of investments based on other
than poverty and efficiency criteria.
3.92   Steps were taken during project preparation to compensate for the weak planning capability of
the state water supply and rural road agencies. Rural road rehabilitation works are already ranked by
priority order, and the portfolio of rural water supply investments has been substantially developed.
In the road sector, one important risk lies with budgeting allocated to new construction to the
detriment of spot improvement and maintenance. To alleviate this risk, loan funds for the rural roads
and rural water supply components would not be available for financing other kinds of investments.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.1    The following agreements were reached or assurances were given at negotiations:
(a)   that all project components and subprojects would be carried out in accordance with
the Project Operational Manual and its annexes (see paras. 3.11 and 3.50);



- 48 -
(b)   the initial list of candidate roads to be eligible for inclusion in the rural road
rehabilitation and maintenance program, limiting additional roads to type E and F
rural roads, foilowing SCT terminology (roads/tracks), with additions in the initial
agreed list limited to 30 percent of the list in terms of kilometers, and a limited
number of class D rural roads, less than 10 percent of the total kilometers (see paras.
3.33 and 3.36);
(c)   the operational manuals for Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna, and guidelines for
rural water supply and rural roads components, including subproject appraisal and
selection criteria and environmental checklists (see paras. 3.17, 3.19, 3.27, and
3.30);
(d)   the institutional development programs for the rural water supply and rural roads
components, including TORs for key studies and the summary institutional
development plan for the municipal development and institutional strengthening
component (see paras. 3.21, 3.29, 3.39, 3.39(a), and 3.39(b));
(e)    model contracts and agreements for direct contracting of community Solidarity
Committees for the implementation of Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs
and for contracting %orks under the rural water supply and rural roads components
(see paras. 3.38 and 3.68);
(f)    annex to the rural water supply contracts, requiring contractor to provide training to
local water committees in system O&M (see para. 3.28);
(g)    description of the structure, role and responsibilities of the ITGs, MSUs, and MPWGs
(see paras. 3.21(e), 3.21(f), 3.21(g), 3.29(d), 3.29(e), 3.39(c), 3.39(d) and 3.61);
(h)   that SEDESOL would promote the transfer of the rehabilitated federal roads to the
state's road inventory for their subsequent maintenance by the state (see para.
3.37(c));
(i)    that the MSUs would be established in the rural roads and water supply agencies in
each state by no later than June 30, 1995 (see paras. 3.29(d) and 3.39(d));
(j)   that the four ITGs (for fiscal strengthening, Municipal Funds, rural water supply, and
rural roads) would continue to function throughout the project, as described in the
Project Operational Manual (see paras. 3.21(f), 3.21(g), 3.29(e), 3.39(c) and 3.61);
(k)   that a state-level MPWGs will be formed in each state to provide regular input and
review of project implementation (see paras. 3.21(e) and 3.61);
(1)    that project accounts would be audited using procedures acceptable to the Bank (see
para. 3.74);



- 49 -
(in)   that institutional development activities fbr each component would carried out on the
basis of annual plans provided to the Bank by January 31 of each year and approved
by the Bank (see paras. 3.23 and 3.76);
(n)   that a review of procurement through community-contracting would be conducted by
December 1995, contracted under terms of reference agreed with the Bank (see para.
3.65 and 3.69);
(o)   that the central and state level PCUs would conduct field reviews in each state of the
implementation of each project component and would report on the results of these
reviews in the semi-annual and annual reports (see para. 3.78);
(p)   the project implementation indicators and project semi-annual and annual reporting
requirements, to be included in a Supplemental Letter (see para. 3.78);
(q)   that the project information and monitoring system would be maintained throughout
the project; implementation reports using formats agreed with the Bank would be
presented three times in a year, of subproject approvals and activities by July 31 and
January 31, and a complete report of fiscal year activities by June 30 of the following
year; and that a copy of the information available from SEDESOL's information and
monitoring system data base would be provided to the Bank on computer diskette at
the end of every quarter (see para. 3.78);
(r)   information would be provided the Bank regarding subprojects included in
disbursement requests, prior to making that request (tablero de desembolso) (see
para. 3.71);
(s)    physical performance evaluation would be conducted in 1996, 1997 and 1998 of a
sample of subprojects implemented in each component, with the assistance of
consultants (see paras. 3.42(c), 3.78, and 3.81 to 3.82);
(t)    a review of each component would be conducted with the assistance of external
experts, contracted under terms of reference agreed with the Bank, prior to December
1996; and a mid-term project review of project implementation would occur no later
than March 31, 1997 (see para. 3.78 and 3.81 to 3.82);
(u)    staffing and functions of the SEDESOL central and state level PCUs would be
maintained throughout project implementation, as described in a Supplemental Letter
(see para. 3.55);
(v)   the Bank would review the terms of reference and qualifications of personnel
contracted to assist the central and state level of PCUs (see parm. 3.43); and
(w)   the draft agreement (anex de ejecucion) between SEDESOL and the project states for
the implementation of the project (see para. 3.10).



- 50 -
4.2   The following wvuld be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)    SEDESOL will adopt the final version of the Project Operational Manual with
annexes, as agreed by the Bank (with the exception of the technical annex for the
income-generating component which must be available as a condition of disbursement
for that component) (see para. 3. 11); and
(b)    SEDESOL will provide evidence that the project information and monitoring system is
functioning in the SEDESOL delegation of each project state and at the central PCU
(see paras. 3.11 and 3.75).
4.3    Condition of Disbursement. As a condition of disbursement under the income-generating
component of the project, the Project Operational Manual annex for the component, including the
implementation plan and related guidelines, terms of reference, and implementation indicators will
have been completed to the satisfaction of the Bank (see para. 3.41 and 3.57).
4.4    Recommendation. With these agreements and conditions, the project would be eligible for a
Bank loan of US$500 million equivalent with a term of 15 years, including a five-year grace period.



- 51 -
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Socio-economic Data for Mexico and Eight Project States
Demographic Information          Mexibo      Eght State   Elght/Mexboo Souro & Year
Total Population                  81,249,845  25,917,921    31.90%    INEGI 1990 Census
Rural Population                  27.933.628  14.3889797   51 .51%    INEGI 1990 Census
% Rural                          34.38%      55.52%              INEGI 1990 Ceneus
Indigenous Population              5,282,347   3,454,974    65.41%    INEGI 1990 Ceneus
% Indigenous                      6.50%      13.33%              INEGI 1990 Census
a. of Municipalities                  2,403       1.433    59.83%    INEGI 1990 Census
Av. Municipal Population         30,384       1 8,096            INEGI 1990 Census
o. of Rural Municipalities            1,478       1,020   69.01%   INEGI 1990 Cenus
Pop in Rural Municipalities   11.636,739   7,482,484    64.30%    INEGI 1990 Census
Avg Rural Municipal Population     7,873       7,338             INEGI 1990 Census
otal Pop in localitie:
Under 500                      9.950.659   5,273,858    53.00%    INEGI 1990 Cenue
500 - 5,000                   17,986.931   9,114,551    50.67%    INEGI 1990 Cenus
5,001-25,000                   8,312,311   3,535,479   42.53%    NEGI 1990 Cenus
25,001-50,000                  5,075,188   2.087,400   41.13%    INEGI 1990 Cenus
over 50.000                   39.924.656   5.906.633    14.79%    INEGI 1990 Cenus
om hIformaion        Mexico     6EgM States   Eght/Mexico lsouroe & Y-er
Income Inforantion
GDP                             333,935       58,166    17.42%    Banooffr Key Indioators 1992'
GDP per Capita                $4.109.99   *2.244.24               Bancomer Key Indicators 1992
Avg. Household Income
Total Poverty lextreme +4 moder   18.370.545   9,836,213    53.54%    1989 Household Survey (WB Caolulation)
% below povery line          22.61%      37.95%              1989 Household Survey IWB Caolulation)
Extrerm Poverty (total no.)    5,955,599   4.078,698   68.49%    1999 Household Survey IWB Cloulation)
% below extr. povery line     7.33%      15.74%              1989 Household Survey IWB Caloulabtion)
Social Information
Population without water      18,699,176   9.226,780    54.28%    WNEGI 1990 Census
% Pop. w/o water             20.92%      35.60%              INEGI 1990 Census
% Illiterate                     12.44%      21.35%    54.74%    INEGI 1990 Cenus
Female % Iliterate               15.04%      25.87%    54.85%    INEGI 1990 Cenus
Primary Nat Enrollment Ratio     90.31%      95.03%    30.03%    INEGI 1990 Cenus
Ho Sector Fiance b hmfcmtion  |le1xbo     Eght State s   EightiMelcxi.  Soure Idl figurs ftrm 19921
cArha                                                   96 ef T"Oa
Revenue Sharing                     $113.26       *99.06    24.20%    Sect. de Heoienda
atte Own Revenuee                   n.d.         $30.84              Sect. de Fineraes Esteales
motl Fedral Investment             *185.05     *147.42    25.41%   Inforrm Pr_sidenoial
Programs Normal                 $158.05     t112.65    22.74%    hnformsw Preeidencial
Solidarity Investment            *27.00      *34.78    41.09%    Informs Preidende
atte Expenditures                   n.d.        *11 .86              Sect, de Finanzm Estetdles
Recurrent Expenditures          n.d.         *40.65               Sect. de Finte_w Estatales
Tatal Tra_nsfe                   n.d.        *38.41               Soct. de Fmenz_ Eatetales
Tr_fers to Municipalities   n.d.         *17.21               Seat. de Fmae_ Estaleo
Total State Investmen            n.d.        *24.59               Sect. de Fnnzm  Estatales
Progrwna Normal             n.d.          *7.91               Sect. de Fmanzas Eatlzes
Solidarity Invetmennt       n.d.         $12.89               Sect. de Fhnan2e Estatales
Note:   1. The fourth column reprments total for the eight states es a percentage of tota for Mxioo.
2. Exchange Rate: $NP 3.10 1 US$ 1.00
3. Rura Muniipalitiee are those where 90% or more of the population live in looelitie under 5,000 people.
S*ooffer ooulation of GDP in 1992 in highr then that calculated by the World Bank.-
the 1992 national GDP per capita presented hare in higher then that prsnted in pars 1.2 of the SAR.



MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_ o  h hlmmee                    Mexioxb                    GUUIU        H            kiowen    Oexacl         Puebb        Vecwruz      zecateee     S,n of Eight
ott fPaputte i1o249.645    3.210.496    2,820,037    1.330.11360    3,548,199    3.019,560    4. 1 2tt,101    6.228.239    1.276N323    25 9817,9217
Poputietn                                   27.333.629    2.136,906    1,470.964    1.187,405    1,644,235    2.102,218    1,918.574    3.130.410    792 .086    14,388,797
% RIfe                                         34.38%       66.56%       56.13%      62.88%       48.34%       69.62%       4645%       50.39%       S206%
PopLiltion                               5.282.347     716.012      293.532      3117.3138     193940    1,018,106     503.277      590,386         883      3,454,974
% bigenou                                       7.43%       26.42%       13.40%      19.52%        1.90%       39.12%       14.11%       10.70%       008%
.of      h                                         2,403          1II          75           84          113          570         21 7         207           56         1,433
Aw Mll      Pepilelon                           30.364      26,.23       34,942       22.481       31,400        5,297       19.014      30,088       22.791
o.f d ldh8 nd*dt                                   1,478           67          39           51           46         517          156          111           33         1.020
Pop h Pbfte hautiiptI                       11.630.739    1,066,729     563,768      704,915      615.331    1,641,597    1,214,880    1,300.754     383.510     7,482,484
Avg .AdLAaunkipdrPpieuhn                         7,m73       15,921      14,54       13,22       13.377        3,175       7,788       11,773       11,015         7.336
Ttal Pop b hoe 
u MNd  500                                   9,93,0.9     362.233      513,713      42,511 a     44,373      732,710     456,045    1,314,343      302,923     5.273,858
600 - .ooo                                  1 7.396.331    1.174,.52    362,142      744.834    1,099,13.26    1,363.568    1.460.457    1,823.964   489,168     9,114.551
5.001.26.000                                 8,312,311     375,216      3S3,04      234.364      533,018      354,814     683,039      798,047      201.757     3.535,479
25.001-50.000                                5.075.166     193,583      100.027      216.540      334,827      171,540     194,515      76.0602      107,308     2.087.
over 50.000 _                               3,9324.656     501.872      969,636      243,490    1.036.155      390,928    1,332,045   -1,525,023     175,169     5.906.633
_ _ _4wdm                                    CNW          Getlao to      doear    0eace                      PLOWS        Vw          Zecetoce     Slni of Eiht
GOP                                            333.035       6.107        4,744        4,101        7.sse        4,787       10,557      17.345        2,639        58,166      t-n
GDP pe capita                                    4,110        1.902        l.81O       2,172        2,223        1,585        2,559       2,785        2,068
Avg. H"oehld kmm,
Povr                                        18,370,546    1.630.351     83s.983      643.744      937,434    1,201,483    1,58.,073    2.444,584     366,560     9,836,213
% beow  OVel  N                            22.61%      56.70%        31.30%      34.09%       26.42%       39.79%       38.44%       39.25%      28.72%
Exdei Poverty                               5s,s5s,s5    11.1154,494    293,773       M5,710      136,360      693,291     519,476      954,789       40,204     4,078.a98
% beowof. poveybe                           7.33%       35.96%       11.21%       15.13%       3.86%       22.96%       12.59%       15.33%       3.15%
P     pw Hhd                                      5.13         5.13        5.13         5.14         5.13         6.13         5.13        5.34         4,90
PopLlotion wihoeiwo@er                      16.931,176    1.353,881    1,142,839     564.346      735.029    1,279,281    1.213.593    2.619.473     318,338     9.226,780
% Pop. W/o weter                           20.92%       42.17%       43.61%      29.89%       20.72%       42.37%       29.41%       42.06%      24.94%        35 60%
% Merto                                        12.44%       30.12%       26.87%       20.69%      17.32%       27.54%       19.22%       18.26%       988%
Femele % Eiterte                               15.04%       37.66%       31.34%       26.19%       19.03%      34.M4%       24.12%       22.40%       10 72%
Pt MMy Ennnbnw MRoet                           30.31%       74.92%       82.80%       91.12%      84.92%       85.53%       87.57%       96.50%       91.50%



- 53 -
ANNEX A
Page 3 of 3
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
State                         Population      1990         Over 15            Population wl Indigenous         Poor '       Extreme
CONAPO       Illiteracy         w/o water                                     Poor
Poverty
Index
1 AGUASCAUENTES                     719,659  -0.890   27        7.1%     23      4.2%    31      0.1 %   31     4.6%   29      0.0%   29
2 BAJA CALIFORNIA                 1.6609,65  -1.346   30        4.7%     30     19.6%    13      1.3%   23      0.3%   31      0.0%   31
3 BAJA CAUFORNIA SUR                317,764  -0.969   28        5.4%     29     10.2%    26      1.0%   24      0.0%   32      0.0%   32
4 CAMPECHE                          536,186   0.477   10       16.4%     10    29.5%      9     19.0%    6      5.0%   28      0.0%   28
C COAHUILADEZARAGOZA              1,972,340  -1.063   29        5.5%     28      7.8%    28      0.2%   29    21.0%   16       3.9%   16
e COUMA                             428,610  -0.7S8   23        9.3%     20      e.e%    30      0.4%   27      1.3%   30      0.0%   30
7 CHIAPAS                         3.210,496   2.360    1      30.1%       1    42.1%      4     26.4%    4    56.7%    1    36.0%    1
8 CHIHUAHUA                        2,441,873  -0.872   26       0.1%     26     12.0%    22      2.9%   17    10.6%   23       1.3%   24
9 DSTRITOFEDERAL                 8,236,744  -1.868   32        4.0%     32      3.3%    32      1.6%   22      6.1%   27      0.9%   2
10 DURANGO                         1.349,378   0.012   16        7.0%     24     16.0%    19      1.6%   21      9.4%   26      0.0%   27
11 GUANAJUATO                      3,982,693   0.212   13       16.6%      8     16.9%    16      0.3%   28    36.7%    7      12.3%    7
12 GUERRO                          2,620,637   1.747    3       26.9%      3    44.0%      1     13.4%    9    31.9%   10      11.2%    8
13 HIDALGO                          1.86,366   1.170    4       20.7%      4     29.9%     7    19.6%    6    34.1%    8       16.1%    c
14 JAUSCO                           5.302,66   -0.766   24      s.9%     22     13.6%    21      0.6%   26    17.0%   18       5.8%   13
15 MEXICO                          9,816,795  -0.604   21        9.0%     21     14.7%    20      3.7%   12    12.6%   22       3.6%   18
16 MICHOACAN                       3.648.130   0.363   12       17.3%      7    20.9%    12       3.6%   13    26.4%   13       3.9%   17
17 MORELOS                          1,196,069  40.467   20      12.0%     15     11.4%    23      1.9%   19    16.8%   20       2.0%   22
18 NAYARIT                           824,643  -0.134   17       11.3%     16     16.1%    1s      3.4%   16      9.9%   24      1.3%   25
19 NUEVO LEON                      3,008,736  -1.377   31        4.7%     31      6.7%    29      0.2%   30     12.6%   21      3.6%   19
20 OAXACA                           3,01.5600   2.066    2      27.5%      2     42.2%     3     30.1%    2    30.9%    4      23.0%    2
21 PUEBLA                           4.126,101   0.831    S      19.2% S          20.2%    10     14.1%    7    38.4%    6      12.6%
22 OUEWETARO                        1,061,236   0.161   14      16.4%     11     16.4%    17      2.3%   16    24.1%   14       6.0%   12
23 CKNTANA RO                        4s3,277  -0.191   19       12.3%     14      10.5%    24    32.2%    3     17.2%   17      1.6%   23
24 OAN LIS POTOS                    2,003,187   0.749    7      15.0%     12    33.6%      6     11.9%    9    49.4%    2      19.7%    3
26 SINALOA                          2,204,064  -0.141   16       9.9%     19     19.5%    14       1.6%   20    16.6%   19      2.4%   21
26 SONORA                           1.,23,06  -0.860   25        6.6%     27      9.6%    27      3.0%   16      9.6%   26      3.9%   1
27 TASASCO                          1,501,744   0.517    9      12.7%     13     43.8%     2      3.7%   11    27.0%   12       7.3%   11
28 TAMAULIPAS                       2.249,581  -0.600   22       6.0%     25      19.7%    16     0.4%   26    23.2%   15       5.5%   1
29 TLAXCALA                          7S1,277  -0.036   16       11.1%     17      6.7%    26      3.4%   14    34.0%    9       9.3%   1
30 VERACRiJZ                        6.228,239   1.130    6      163%        a    41.9% s          10.7%   10    39.3%    6     15%    4
31 YUCATAN                          1,.32,940   0.400   11      16.%       9     29.4%     9     44.2%    1    46.6%    3       10.8%    9
32 ZACATECAS                        1.276,323   o.5S     a       9.9%      1S     24.7%    11      0.1%   32    25.7%   11      3.2%
o NACIONAL                     81,249,645  0.000              12.4%            20.9%            7.5%          22.6%           7.3%
Eight States                   Popubon           1990       Over 15 lUtwwy PopulSon  w/ hdig nous    Poor                   Extreme
CONAPO                          wlo water                                     Peor
Povwrty
.___   ._ _    Index
7 CHIAPAS                          3.210,49S            1      30.1%       1    42.1%     4     264%    4    56.7%    1    36.0%    1
12 GUERRO                           2,620,S37   1.747    3      26.9%      3     44.0%      1    13.4%    9    31.0%   10      11.2%    6
13 HIOALGO                          1.86,366   1.170    4       20.7%      4     2s9s%      7     19.6%    5    34.1%    6     16.1% S
1S LICHOACAN                        3.4,19n  0.363   12         17.3%      7      20.9%    12      3.6%   13    26.4%   13      3.9%   17
20 OAXACA                           3.019,600   2.0o5    2      27.5%       2     42.2%     3     39.1%    2    39.8%    4      23.0%    2
21 PUEBLA                           4,126,101   0831    6       19.2%      5      29.2%    10     14.1%    7    38.4%    6    12.6%
30 VERACRUZ                         6.229,239   1.130    5      18.3%       6    41.9%      5     10.7%   10    39.3%    5      1.%    4
32 ZACATECAS                         1276323   0.566    6        9.%       16     24.7%    11      0.1%  32      29.7%   11      3.2%   20
EIOHT  TATES                 25,917,921                     21.5%            35.6%           15.9%          38.0%          15.7%
Ei!ht Stat                                    I PopwlFon     Over 15 Illitera   Pop war         Indlniou      Poo            Extrmo
Pbaeou                                                                        w/o watW                                       Pool
*based on World Bank ndlysis of 1989 INEGI Family Houshold Survoy






- 54 -
ANNEX B
ME:XICO                                                Par ifl
Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project
Project Components by Year
Base Cost (US$million)*
Project Component                                 1995         1996        1997        1998         Total
A. Municipal Investment & Inst. Dev.
Investment program Municipal funds (inc. eng.)     154          154         154         154          615
Investment program Escuela digna                    12           12          12          12           48
Technical assistance /studies                        2           7            7           7           23
Training/ Working groups                             0            1           1           1            3
Purchase of equipment                                            4            4                        8
Subtotal (base Cost)                               168          178         178         174          697
B. Rural Water supply
Investment program                                  23           39          62          31          156
Engineering                                          1            2           4           2            9
Technical assistance /studies                        0            0           0           0            1
Training/ Working groups                             0            1           0           0            2
Purchase of equipment                                             0           0                        0
Subtotal (base Cost)                                25           42          67          34          168
C . Rural Roads Rehab. & Maintenance
Spot Improvement                                    16           27          42          21          106
Routine maintenance                                               1           4           7           12
Engineering                                          0            1           1           1            3
Technical assistance /studies                        0            0           0           0            2
Training/ Working groups                             0            1           1           1            2
Purchase of equipment                                             0           0           0            1
Subtotal (base Cost)                                17           30          48          30          125
D. Income Generating Investments
Investment program                                    1           2           2           2            6
Technical assistance /studies                        0            1           1           1            4
Training                                             0            0           0           0            1
Purchase of equipment                                0            0           0           0            1
Subtotal (base Cost)                                  1           3           4           4           12
E. Sedesol Inst. Strength. & Project Coord.
Coordination support                                 6            6           6           6           24
Tech. Assist., Studies, Train. & Mid-teorm Eval.      1           1           1            1           4
Purchase of equipment                                             1                                    2
Audit                                                             1           1           2            3
Subtotal (base Cost)                                 7            8           7           7           33
Total BASELINE COST                                 219         260         304         248          1036
Price contingencies                                   5           12          21          23           59
Total PROJECT COST (USSm)                           224         272         325          271         1095






- 55 -
ANNEX C
Page 1 ot 15
MEXCO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
1.    Implementation of the Second DRD project is driven by the demands from
rural communities for basic infrastructure (social and economic), which are filtered
through a process of selection based on established criteria, and, in the case of the
Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs, through community decision-makcing.
Because of this, it is not possible to completely foresee the pattern of project
investment. Therefore, the establishment of an effective project monitoring system
is especially important to analyze the characteristics and evolution of the investment
program as well as to review the quality of its implementation.
2.     This annex provides a brief overview of the project monitoring system,
summarized in Table 1 below. The Estimated Implementation Indicators' and
sample formats for data collection and project progress reporting are shown in
Attachments I and II.
3.     The objectives of the project monitoring system are to:
(a)    provide basic information regarding the progress of the project in its
different stages (e.g., authorization and approval of activities,
procurement and implementation, and disbursement) by component
and by state (and, where necessary, by municipality and locality);
(b)    ensure that project activities are consistent with the objectives,
targeting and selection criteria of the project, identifying any
inconsistencies, and defining corrective actions; and
(c)    measure the quality of project implementation, identifying problems
and defining corrective actions.
4.     The monitoring system is based on: (a) information and reports available
from the project data base; (b) ongoing, in-field monitoring and supervision
activities of the PCU; (c) annual project physical performance evaluations; (d)
audits; and (e) mid-term evaluation and other special studies.
Information System
5.     The information system is built on a data base containing physical, financial
and procurement information for each subproject financed. The data base is
constructed upon three modules: (a) basic data sheets (cedulas) providing financial,
technical and social information for each subproject; (b) information regarding the
1. No implementation indicators are identified for the Productive Component. The
identification of these indicators will be completed and agreed as part of the condition of
disbursement for the component.



- 56 -
ANNEX C
Page 2 of 15
authorization and approval of subprojects (oficios de aurorizaci6n y aprobaci4n); and
(c) information regarding procurement and disbursement. Included in these modules
are information regarding the identification of the subproject, its targets, and
physical and financial characteristics. Because there will likely be over 15,000
subprojects per year, this system is essential to provide a basis for analyzing project
implementation.
Monitoring Activities or the PCU
6.    The PCU is responsible for: (a) supervising (together with the SEDESOL
Delegations) the application of federal guidelines in the planning and implementation
of each project component in the states; (b) reviewing the implementation of project
activities to identify problems and successes, as a basis fof taking actions to address
the former and encourage the latter; (c) oversight and coordination of the
implementation of the institutional development programs of each project
component; and (d) reporting on project progress to the management of SEDESOL
and to the Bank.
7.    To carry out these responsibilities, SEDESOL must:
(a)    conduct reviews to ensure that the administrative, technical and
financial guidelines are followed (for example, approval of
Municipal Funds, Escuela Digna, water supply, rural roads and
productive subprojects by the SEDESOL delegations should be
consistent with eligibility criteria);
(b)    maintain an up-to-date and accurate project data base (see para. 5
above), fed by data inputs of the state SEDESOL delegations and
state governments;
(c)    analyze project implementation, using information from the data
base, and reviews in the project states (including regular field
supervision of each component);
(d)    contract mid-term evaluations of project components and special
studies;
(e)    review progress of institutional development activities of each
component and achievement of institutional development goals;
(f)    based the results of the quantitative and qualitative analyses
described in (c), (d), and (e), plus the results of annual physical
performance evaluations and project audits, identify problems;
formulate and undertake or promote actions to resolve them; and
(g)    report on project implementation on a quarterly, semi-annual, and
annual basis.
Reporting on Project Progress
8.    There are two kinds of project reporting to be received by the Bank. One is
a disbursement report (tablero de desembolso), which is presented to the Bank for its



- 57 -
ANNEX C
Page 3 of 15
"no objection" prior to any submission of SOEs to the special account for
reimbursement. In the cases of Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna, the tablero
provides a listing of municipalities, and for the water supply, rural roads and
income-generating components it provides information on individual subprojects,
with sufficient detail to judge the eligibility of the subprojects financed, as well as to
provide other indicators of project performance.
9.    In addition to the disbursement reports, the other regularly scheduled project
reports include:                                          f
(a)    Ouarterlv Updating of Project Implementation Information. Every
quarter, the PCU will provide the Bank a copy of its data base for
that year, including those data fields relating to subproject
implementation (authorization, approval and disbursement), and basic
subproject information (the cedula).
(b)    Semi-Annual Project Progress Reports. Every six months (on July
31 and January 31) the PCU will produce a project progress report,
using standard formats regarding approved activities attached for
Municipal FundslEscuela Digna, rural water supply and rural roads
(see Attachment II to this annex for example of formats). In
addition, the PCU will, as a part of this report, forward copies of
the supervision reports produced by the PCUs in each state
Delegation and by the central PCU.
(c)    Annual Report. By June 30 of each year, SEDESOL will provide an
annual report of project implementation, based on information
regarding implemented activities in the previous fiscal year. This
report will:
(i)    use the same formats as the semi-annual reports but reflect
achieved activities;
(ii)    will provide information regarding the accomplishment of the
project implementation indicators and the specific
accomplishments of the institutional development program
within each component;
(iii)   provide an analysis of indicators related to the Municipal
Funds (including the measurable rules for distribution of
resources, and the sharing of resources between the
municipal cabeceras and the outlying communities); and
(iv)   provide other analyses and recommendations as may be
reasonably requested by the Bank and agreed with the PCU
on each of the components.
Proiect Physical Performance Evaluation
10.   The objective of the Physical Performance Evaluation (PPE) is to evaluate
the success of infrastructure investments financed, by the project, including
subprojects financed through Municipal Funds/Escuela Digna, and the rural water



- 58 -
ANNEX C
Page 4 of 15
supply, rural roads and income-generating components, in terms of the achievement
of specific subproject objectives, and the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of the
investment. The study would examine: (a) whether the subproject functions as
designed (e.g. a water supply project provides water to the number of beneficiaries
intended); (b) the level of the quality of construction of the subproject (e.g., whether
it is very good, adequate, or weak) and its affect on sustainability; (c) the efficiency
of the agreed procurement procedure of small works through the direct contracting
of Solidarity Committees through Municipal Funds/Escuela Digna and convenios for
rural water supply and rural roads (spot improvement/peon caminero); and (d)
statistical analysis of the other procedures (local competitive bidding) used in the
procurement of water supply and rural roads works.
11.   Role of SEDESOL, the Bank, and consultants in the study:
(a)    Role of SEDESOL: (i) prepare a terms of reference and detailed
methodology for the conduct of the study; (ii) establish the sample to
be reviewed in the first PPE (to be undertaken in 1996 based on the
1994-95 project implementation experience); (iii) supply counterparts
to the hired consultants to implement the methodology in each state;
(iv) to aggregate the results and present the diagnosis and generic
recommendations; and (v) to follow-up on the incorporation of the
recommendations in the implementation of the project, and to revise
the methodology, as needed for its application in 1997 and 1998.
(b)    Role of Consultants: Consultants would be contracted to implement
the agreed methodology, with their SEDESOL counterparts.
(c)    ole of the Bank: The role of the Bank will be to: (i) review,
make suggestions, and agree to (provide a "no objection") the
detailed terms of reference (including methodology and plan of
action) for the PPE; and (ii) present comments and suggestions
related to the findings and recommendations of the PPE.
12.   TIming of the PPE. The first PPE would be conducted during 1996,
regarding subprojects implemented in 1994-95. The PPE would be significant
element of the mid-term review. In addition, the mid-term review would address
other questions regarding other objectives of the project, including municipal
strengthening, institutional development (TA/training/studies) and community
participation.
13.   PPEs would also be conducted in 1997 and 1998 (for the 1996 and 1997
exercises respectively), but would focus primarily on the second objective above,
regarding physical performance, and other issues identified during the first PPE.
Terms of reference for the 1997 and 1998 PPEs would be agreed by no later than
December 31 of the prior year.
14.   Development of the Terms of Reference. SEDESOL and the Bank would
begin immediately to develop the TOR (including an outline of the methodology and
plan of action) for the PPE. The agreed TOR would then be included as an annex
in the Project Operational Manual, which is to be finalized by October or November
1994.



- 59 -                           ANNEX C
Page 5 of 1S
Procurement Study of Community Contracting
15.   A study will be conducted by December 1995 regarding the advantages and
disadvantages of community participation in procurement in the Municipal Funds
and Escuela Digna programs.
Table 1
Summary of Project Monitoring and
Reporting
Nature of Report                       liming
1.  Data input at state level by subproject    Ongoing, updated during
using data sheets.                   authorization, approval and
completion of each subproject.
2.  Copy of Information and Monitoring   Ouarterly, at the end of March,
System data base provided to Bank.  June, September and December
of each year.
3.  Project Progress Report submitted to  Semi-annually at end of June and
Bank.                                December.
4.  Annual Report of Project execution.  Annually, at end of April of
following year.
5.  Physical Performance Evaluation.     Annually, completed by no later
than 12/31 of following year.
6.  Summary of Subproject                Periodically, prior to each
Implementation. (Tablero de          disbursement application.
Desembolso)



- 60 -                               ANNEX C
Page 6 of 15
Attachment I
Mexico Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project
Estimated Project Implementation Indicators
Component
Program/Objtiwvs                 Indicators             Unit       1995      1996      1997     199        Total
MUNICIPAL INVEST.
AND INST.DEV.
1. Municipal Funds           No. of Subprojects          U        10,000    10,000   10,000    10,000     40,000
Total investment        millions      165      165       165       165        660
lnvestment per rural capita    U          11.5     11.5      11.5     11.5
2. Escuela Digna             No. of Subprtoecta          U         5,000     5,000    5,000    5,000       20,000
Total invesment         millions     21.25    21.25    21.25    21.25         85
3. ITG
Municipal Funds/ED         Number of Meetings           U           3         3        3         3          12
4. rro
Fi ouStrengthmning          Number of Meetinp            U          4         4         4        4          16
5. MPWG                       No. Mtgs Chiaps            U           3         3         3        3          12
No. Mtp Gurmo               U           3         3        3         3          12
No. Mtg Hidalgo            U           3         3         3        3          12
No. Mtp M     Dhoea          U           3        3         3        3          12
No. Mtp  xac               U           3         3        3         3          12
No. Mtp Puebla             U           3         3        3         3         12
No. MtVs Vea=               U           3        3         3         3         12
No. Mtp Zaeoa               U           3         3        3         3          12
6. Incng Mun.             Review of Existig Sytems    No. Stat.      2         4         2                   S
Reveme                      Tech. Assistanoe       No. State                 2        4         2          8
Truiing courm          No. Sta                  4         6         6         16
7. Dev. of Mun. AMet      Review of Existing Systems    No. State    2         4         2                   S
and Budgeting            Tech. Asist. nd Equip.     No. State.               2        4         2          8
Trauiing coues         No. Stae                 4         6         6          16
g. Tining in InVest           Training courme            U           10        25       35        30         100
Plaing Wnd Comm.                  Trainee                U           150      375       525      450        1,500
Participati              Number of Mun. Pasticipatng     U           50       125       175       150        SW0
9. Municipal Officiac           Study Tours               U          2         8         S        5          23
Exchig Progrm               One on One Exchange          U           5         10       20        15         50
Exchange Workshops           U                     8        a         8         24
Number Paticipants          U           25       210       220      185        640
Number of Mun. Participtzng     U           10       40        50        50        IS0
10. Mostring               No. visits to Sttes/field     U                     8         a        8          32
by PCU/Cete               No. ubproject visited         U           24        24       24        24         96
MunFunds/ED               No. monnoring reports         U           2         2         2        2           8



- 61 -
ANNEX C
Page 7 ot 15
Attachment I
Mexico Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project
Estimated Project Implementation Indicators
Component
PrgramlObjecves                Indicatotn             Unit       1995      1996     1997      199I       Total
WATER SUPPLY
COMPONENT
1. Investrment               No. of Systemt            U          190      320       520      270        1,300
(mcI engieering)           No. of Beneficisries         U       280 000  480,000  760,000  380,000   1.900.000
Total Invetunent (base)    USS millios    23      39       62       31         155
2.Technical Assistunc      Design of Inventory/
Studies                    Demsnd Analysis            U          I                                       I
Application of Inventory  No. Slat"               4         4                    S
Strategic Studies         U                    1         2        1          4
3. Training                trainees state agpnci.    trai.days    700      1,000    1,300     1,096     4,096
trainees municipali.    trai.dsys             3,000    4,500    4,500       12,000
4. Municipal Support    Status report by PCU wat     reprts        I         I        I         1         4
Unit                          supply unit
5.raG                        No. of maeting             U          3        3         3        3          12
6. Monitoring             No. visits to Statalfield     U          S         a        a         S         32
by PCU/Center            No. subprojects visited       U         24        24       24        24         96
No. monitoring reports       U          2         2        2         2          a
7. Monitoing by           No. ubprojecta vuited         U          10       10        10       10         40
PCUISta of Wat            No. manitoring report         U          2        2         2        2           S
Supply (each ate)
RURAL ROADS
COMPONENT
1. Spot Improvemet               Gradint               KM        2,300    3.900    6.300    3,100       15,600
No beneficiaries        million      1.4      1.2       0.7      0.7         4
No of Roads              U         230      390       630      310        1560
2. Routino Maince            ength mintained           Km                  2,300    6,200    12,500     21,000
No of muint. convenio        U                  1.150    3.100    6.250      10,500
3. Istiut. Developmnt
Spot Improvewt          updated guidelin            U           I                                      I
(Technical As wssa)       State with ytem            No           1        4        3                    a
lormatcon Syam               DatA ban                U          I                                       1
(TechnicAl Assistance)   Sta' inform.systam          No                    3        3         2          a
road inventoris          KIC                  600      600       400       1,600
Training           traines state genc.i      trei.dys    1,000    3,000    4,000    2,900        10,900
trains municipali.       ttjdays               2,000    4,000    2,000      S,000
4. Municipal Support     Status report by PCU rral     eportei      I        I        I         1          4
Unit                          road. unit
5.rrG                        No. of meeting             U          3         3        3         3          12
6. Monitoring             No. visits to Stata/field     U           I        S        a         S         32
by PCUICeute             No. ubprojecta visited        U          24       24        24       24         96
No. monitoring reporus       U           2        2         2        2          a
7. Monitoring by          No. ubproject visited         U          6         6        6         6          24
PCU/Stste of Rural        No. monitoring rmport         U          2         2        2         2          a
Roads (each state)



-62-                                    ANNE C
PROYECTO DE DESCENTRAUZACION Y DESARROLLO REGIONAL 11 Page 8 of 15
Componentm de Fondos Municipoles                  Attaclhment II
Mod-lo del Inlorme Sm.-stirl /Anual
(me=as aprobadas)
AAo                               P,IO s3moSIr.                    Acumul*Co anu*i
SUSPROGRAMA                                         _
CA loo    G.o'-0o    NidodgO   FAlcrscA      O&.8.       Puso.b    V ...n z    Zaeoolci    Twoat
- 7  7  77- wcaclor'   -.0.t:-y 
SJ
NUrAtro dJe *umno atendrdos
NCo-,mO de ALTAAs
AJ'           SEq1O2aJ1' XUDe'  *m
Num rtlo Cuberta 1CfS
kwo dei (N-l
nmwo  de submromsem
*Om'rS  de o tioobin
inmvws d   wm  dodNs iacd
kwIdl EWU I N 
Lf0ad do 1l (IrnD
bev.n  meal 
.... .. . ..
NmaWO  do WAIo'e _
AmOl de kw" 4#?0O
| Venoto do mJas
Lnpi de Wmmde _4mtocW  .MOll  
CasioW atos  reddelirail J
| 0 a -e eokii _s tb lw  .w
kwmb WW IS
|  Setarm         -                                      l           l          l~~-          -      T    -
gtht..t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ...LI 
l  MO   de o a             i
1^- mm ISOI 
"WW e ftopee



PROYECTO DE DESCENTRALZACION Y DESARROLLO REGIONAL N
Component. de Escueb Dina
Modelo del hom  Semutrd / Anual
coeecu~~~o           imNPa    Ouwsm    ld-Ou   MiNhosin   Osama         PuHebl    Vwwuzi  Zacatecas    Total
N?mmo de sula.ud
N?&mwo de duami
Arsam cubluyas m2
hwm&n IN- 



PROYECTO DE DESCENTRLZACION Y DESARROLLO REGIONAL n
Connwits de Cafinos Rural.
Model. del hlrornw Semet/Anual
Af bm  amaml                                                         Acumuato ai_                   _
cm"   _um   _                       =SI   W_               _ OMM   _U wm   w                  cenra  Tot
L    dot II                                                          _
deH@                                                                                                                                         ..poyca
Diws on,b de  capemmritasdi os   otmi   J
Costs total  llspl, _CHO.I
Cota total do bt_ do         s
Costa total dNo S)
Nano  otdde peone                                             ,                          .               .o
Lonttud totW (KwO
COeStO TotA INCI
TOTAo de CbpIov etc
Costo total IN$SI.                                                                                                                                                               3
Nanode subptoy*ctos 
Dfas-hombo de eowsdoitm  stt
Casio total cwaehdn
Costa total de s*o d    uto
Costo totWdqipoo                                 _ 6_Ci    _ C.O
cosTo TOTAL AROBADO tNl                                                               _     ..                                .-.
TOTALEJECDO (NS1 



PROYECTO DE DESCENTRALIZACION Y DESARROLLO REGIONAL 11
Component. do Agtua Potabl
Model. del hnfonnw SemetMr  /Anual
AUp.                                Pdmu                                Acumujado wal
Cblapi     O_emu        Hidal      Mlchoein    Osmb          Puua       Vasen      Zacatecas    Contf a       Totad
Nbr_eo de subpooeatee nuwve _pire_ da_
NMbe de bwwte l.io de pbostee nuwvue
W&nweo total de subproyectu aprbdo
NDn_e totWl de bmnfiddwfe
Caste de ptalecl6n de sthpeeyece nue_e INtl
Coat. total .wubed. P4,1
COSTOS DIE SUPOVICIS NUM VOs .40
2. CWdOn.
t4. PA* d6
S. Desinfed6       o
S. Ditbbb ...  n
Coat. total INtl ....... -                                                                                                                    . _
NWifnao de expodntes | .p
Casio total INtlOlw ;
Dies- ombuo d  epchadeospuobadol
Caste total dc( bcinN      w$1cd 
Casio total swobl de oqd ioe de cempute
Costa totl spob de de eqipo t6cnie k 
COSTO TOTAL A       WM D  (1SI
TOTAL IWEllIOO INS)t



- 66 -
ANNEX C
PROYECTO DE DESCENTRALIZACION Y DESARROLLO REGIONAL 11   Page 12 of 15
Components de Aguc Potable                             Attachmet Il
Model de Data Sheet
I7. Ina,madcdn HisAcw
Nombre do Ia localided                                                               Clave  I         I        Estedo
Municipio                                                                            Clave                   Clove Estado
Habitontes segun *I censo de 1990                         Nuimoro de Ia obr                                 I
2. SIftrlnAcl udde Senrdio a A ekrA Fu                                 -      -emble
ripo so sitema              Grovedad       Q                            Bombec        Q             4            Mixto    z
No tene servicio    Q         Intreestructurn incomplete          Introestructurs en Me    s *tado  Q      Operocidn inadecueds      Q
Calided del egua            Buena    C                                  Regular     Q                           Mdol      Q
Capxaci6n       IS/N)   Q     Superficial    Q                      Gxlerfo o pozo somero                     Pazo protundo     Q
Cauda Ilpsl                          Potencis total del equipo do bombeo IHPI
Conduccion      IS/NI   Q     Longrud (ml                           Ditmetro dominante (pulgedas)
RsguLaidn       IS/N)   Q     Superficial o subterrino      Q       Elevedo     a        Capecidad total Im3)
Desintccutin    CS/NI   Q
D.arubucidn    IS/NI          Longtud (m)                           Didmetro dominente (pulgedeal
Tomex           IS/N)   Q     Pdblicas                Domitciados    Q               Numero
-~~~ -'v~    .    M%                      B - .  5    5g-,  f;  n.a.t..nAj;  :Q         .,  C
rapo de obra              Obr Nueva       Q                           Amplisdn    Q                            RefbiblltociWn    Q
Tip. -s saernov:          Gavded          Q                             anmbeo .                              lAxto              Q
NOmero de b.ndelcanos dfioctas de lo abne
3.1 Caracta t  do ekrs Nmew  oel
Cptaidn         IS/N)   Q     Supfcial   El                         Gabfa a paz. sarmro        Q               PCz. prohtndo    fl
CaudW al       f_p___                 Potena  totl dWl equpo de bamboo (IM
Conducci6n      (S/N)   Q     LngWud 'm)               D_mtr daminonte puulgal_                                   _     _
Reguleci6n      (S/N)   Q     Superficial o oubtorrinea o    l       Movdo       Q       Cepecidad total Im31
oeirocddln    (sm}  [3
Distrlbucidn    ISIN)   3    Langitud (ml                           DIdmetr domnte puiga des)
Tom"            IS/NI  fl    Pbica         3          Domhdlon        QlmeNnwo
3.2 Ceateeftdcs d of e
CeptidclOn      IS/NI         Superficial   fl WG      a pomf     nro                                           Pmo protdo 
Cnl losl                              ftoc total We qpa de bomibc IPfb
Conduccidn      (S/NI  fl    Longitud gm)                           111illDmevo dominnts (pulgodeol
Reguiciln      (SIN)   3    Supeifol a oubtwtneao         Q       svedo       Q        Capacidad total Im31
Delnteccidn     (S/NI   Q
Duvbucdn        IS/NI    l    Lonogitud tml                         Didmevo demrnrnte apudalpd
Tomac           IS/NI   Q     Pu3blcea    Q           Dom.leas    [3                 NoC       _
Cotoaa eualec de apocllo y  menmaenta INS)         m  nt                 Terift mwdla mnnal INI/taoml,
Obre nurvo a omplsclidn               eObllzcwdn                         Tota
Conduccidn
ftegfs o6n
Dntnd                               _                                _                               _
Tona
TOW
?cmoul_                      _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _        _ _  _ _ _  __ _  _ _ _ _       _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _
Teud   _______________________     ________________________         _______________________~~~~~~



67 -                                 ANNEX C
Page 13 of 15
Attachment H
PROYECTO DE DESCENTRALIZACION Y DESARROLLO REGIONAL II
Componente de Caminos Rurales
Modelo de Data Sheet para Eliminacidn de Puntos Criticos
Estado                                 Clave                 Regi6n                                Clave
Municipio                              Clave                 Dependenca ejecutora
NOmero de c6digo del camino
Nombre del camino
Longitud CKil6metrosl
NOmero de beneficia rio
Densidad (HubTtantes/Kmi,
Tipo -D-   Q       Tipo -E-            Tipo f      Q       Federal                Estatal   Q           Oto 
...
Cantddad           Costao*n N$
linr luye el IVA)
Terracerles (Km de reafinamiento)                  L           I
Drenaje Im3 de concrato y albaluilerfa)
Revestimiento Im3 de grave)
Puentes Im3 de conareto y albaHrailedal
Eutudios de ingenierla (Krn)                                         _
Tatal
N$tKm
Numero de bernficiarios de ia obre   g 5m real. x densidad
Numero de a obre     !                    I



- 68 -
ANNEX C
Page 14 of 15
Attachment II
PROYECTO DE DESCENTRALIZACION Y DESARROLLO REGIONAL 11
Subcomponente de Fortalecimiento lnstitucional
Modelo de Data Sheet pasa Capa:itaci6n
Estado                                   Cbve
Fondos Municipales  5     Agus Potable           Carrinos Ruralas i       Provs. Productivos   5      Coordinsci6n
.......:...
.                                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~A
.*.....,..............: ~ ...  .  .. *. .  .... . 7
Contnitante:      1. Agencis estatdl       2. SOdesol Central         3. Delegaci6n Sedesol    5     4. Munridpio   5
Capaciatdor       5. Agends Estatul   0        6. Instituci6n Publics   5        7. Ins0tucidn o personas privadas    5
Capacitado:       8. Agencis Estrtal                      9. Municipio                                  10. Sedesol 5
Forms:            11. En el sitio del capacitado (oficins o campoi   5  12. Organizado Iseminano. curso formal. atc .
TemaCal:          13. Ingeniea b"iica          0            14. Medio ambiento                  15. Estadistica     5
16. SirtmasAntormitica      5            17. Oparscdn                        18. Mantanirrnento   5
IO. Adrnkitrsdn             020. Otro                   
Nrnmro de capacttadons                      Duradn Wds)                      21. Total dis-capecdtador            FM
NCirn ro de c owduos                       Durscd6n (dies)                   22. Total divs-cpadt do ||||||jjj
Costoz an NS (lniuye iVA)
Conoept
Honorwics
Vidticou                      _______________                                                ______________
Matun al*s (oseapcficewl     __________________________
Dscripci6n de mratdals:
Numero de is oba      |



- 69 -
ANNEX C
Page 15 of 15
Attachment II
PROYECTO DE DESCENTRALIZACION Y DESARROLLO REGIONAL 11
Subcomponente de Fortalecimiento Institucional
Modelo de Data Sheet para Adquisici6n de Equipo
Estado                                  Clave                   -
Componente      Fondos Municipales    g                  Proyectos Productivos                    Coordinaci6n    E
Caminos Rurales                         Agua Potable
C     ..&  ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~  CCC~~~~~~'~~~'....  ...
~~~  ~~~  'C~~~~~~~*''  C-.'  *~~~~~~~~~~~..  . ;.........    ..
Tipo de *quipo        Equipo de c6mputo   Q                    Equipo tdcnico                             Otro
Agenci quo recibe:              Sodoeol                        Ejecutor estatal                       Municipio    ]
Objetivo:             Area administriva             5                                             Area ticnica    5
Descripci6n:
Concepto                     Unidad                         CandUdad                   Costo total (N$)
Computedoras                      Equipo
Impresoras                        Equipo
Otros petrfkricos                 Lote
Software                           Paquete
iTotdl
Nutmero de Ia obra






- 70 -
ANNEX D
Page I of 9
MEXCO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
SEDESOL Strengthening and Project Coordination Component
1.    The Direcci6n de Programas Especiales, within the Direcci6n General de Programas de
Desarrollo Regional, Subsecretarla de Desarrollo Regional, SEDESOL, is the PCU for the first DRD
project and will continue in that role for the Second DRD project. The PCU currently consists of
over 50 professional and technical staff responsible for all phases of project supervision. However,
most of these staff are responsible for general administrative functions, with only a few providing
specialized technical expertise. The experience of the first project demonstrated the need to
strengthen the technical supervision of each project component by SEDESOL, at the state and federal
levels, so that implementation problems could be identified and the resolution sought through either
internal institutional strengthening of involved agencies or the contracting of technical assistance for
subproject design and other work. In the Second DRD project, the capacity of SEDESOL, and
specifically the PCU, would be strengthened in the following ways:
(a)    Restructuring of the PCU, so that it would be more efficiently organized along
programmatic lines;
(b)    Long term consultants would be hired by the central and state level PCUs to
strengthen its expertise in critical areas such as engineering, municipal development,
participation, and information management (see Attachment I, Table 1);
(c)    Istitutional strengthening program of technical assistance, studies, training and
equipment that would strengthen the capacity of the central and state PCUs (see
Attachment I, Table 2);
(d)    Contracting of mid-term project reviews to outside experts, providing SEDESOL
and the PCU with an external perspective on the progress of project implementation
(see Attachment I, Table 2); and
(e)    Contracting of annual project financial and performance audits (see Attachment I,
Table 2).
Restructuring of the central PCU
2.    In order to strengthen the central PCU, its structure would be modified, organizing it into
four technical units responsible for each of the four project components, rather than the current
organization by function (i.e., planning, monitoring, disbursement, and evaluation). In addition,
there would be an administrative support unit, responsible for procurement review and assistance,
managing the disbursement process, and providing technical support to the PCU and the state-level
PCUs for the development and maintenance of the information management system.



- 71 -
ANNEX D
Page 2 of 9
Consulting Services contracted to Strengthen the PCUs and MSUs
3.    To strengthen the staffing of the central PCU, in order to meet the demands of the project,
new technical positions would be created and filled by the contracting of experienced professionals in
the areas of engineering (rural road and water supply), agriculture, municipal development,
information management, and community participation. See Attachment I, Table 1 for a list of
experts required and related project budget. TORs, including candidate selection criteria, would be
developed for each position. These TORs and the qualifications of selected candidates would be
reviewed and agreed to by the Bank.
4.    At the state level, project coordination activities will be undertaken by a small PCU reporting
to the SEDESOL state representative (delegado). This state level PCU would consist of a general
civil engineer, rural road engineer (for Municipal FundslEscuela Digna), water supply engineer,
participation or public administration specialist, and two information specialists. In the pilot states for
the productive component, an agriculturalist will also be included in the state PCU. In addition, to
assist in the strengthening of the MSUs for rural roads and water supply in each state, and ensure
coordination between these programs and the project, an engineers and community participation
specialist will be contracted for each of these units. (See Attachment I, Table 1)
PCU Functions
5.   TMe PCU is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the project, including the
Solidarity investment programs and institutional development activities supported by the project in the
eight project states (Municipal Solidarity Funds, Escuela Digna, Municipal Strengthening,
Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Rural Roads, Rural Water Supply, and Productive Investments).
The PCU has three key responsibilities: (a) to establish and promote project guidelines
(normatividad) for each component; (b) provide leadership in support of the development of
institutional capacity of the involved state agencies and municipalities; (c) oversee and monitor the
implementation of each phase of the cycle of project investment.
(a)    Establish and Promote Component Guidelines
6.    The guidelines for project implementation are included in the Project Operational Manual,
which is annexed to the Manual Unico de Operaci6n de Solidaridad (see Attachment II, outline of the
Project Operational Manual). These guidelines address technical, community participation,
administrative, procurement, and financial requirements of each component. The PCU, working with
and through the SEDESOL state delegations, is responsible for the dissemination of project
guidelines, for reviewing implementation and ensuring adherence to guidelines, initiating
modifications in the guidelines based on an analysis of implementation experience, and conducting
regular meetings and workshops with representatives of municipalities and state governments,
including the Interstate Technical Groups for Municipal Funds, Municipal Strengthening, Rural Water
Supply, and Rural Roads.
(b)    Leadership in Supporting Institutional Development Goils
7.    The achievement of the principle objective of the project, the development of institutional
capacity at state and local levels in the eight project states, requires strong leadership by the PCU.



- 72 -
ANNEX D
Page 3 of 9
Because of that, each of the four technical units would be responsible not only for the development
and modification of project guidelines (see 'a' above), but also for supervising of the project
investment program ("c' below), and working with state and local institutions to plan, implement, and
monitor institutional development activities. The institutional development objectives and activities
are described in each of the technical annexes for each of the four project components (Annexes F, G,
H, and I). The PCU would present annual plans for the institutional development activities for each
component no later than January 31 of each year, and would report on progress through the semi-
annual and annual reports.
(c)    Supervision of Project Implementation
8.    The implementation process differs slightly by component, and is presented in the relevant
annex (Annexes F, G, H, and I). The operational role of the PCU and the SEDESOL state
delegations is as follows:
(a)    Planning. The state SEDESOL office and the federal PCU receive and must approve
proposals for the expenditure of resources for specific subprojects, or, in the cases of
Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna, for specific municipalities. Both organizations
review state proposals to ensure that eligibility criteria and technical standards are
met. These proposals must be within an overall budget ceiling established for each
state for total Solidarity expenditures and for total project-related (eligible)
expenditures within that amount.
(b)   Implementation and Performance Monitoring. The state government agencies and
municipalities are responsible for implementation of agreed subprojects. The role of
SEDESOL, including the PCU, is to ensure that component guidelines are followed
and that adequate technical assistance and training, and other institutional activities are
programmed and carried out by the states. SEDESOL takes an active role in
reviewing the status of implementation based both on reports from the state agencies
coming from the project information system, as well as spot field reviews of each
component. For some of the institutional development activities, involving technical
assistance, studies or training that encompass more than one state, the PCU may play
a direct implementation role. For more details on the monitoring and reporting
functions of the PCU, see Annex C.
(c)    Evaluation and Audits. The PCU is also in-charge of ensuring that the results of the
physical performance evaluations and project audits are used effectively by the
programs and by the states to improve both design and execution. In addition, the
PCU would conduct a mid-term evaluation of progress, with the assistance of outside
experts, for each of the four components.
Technical Assistance, Studies, Training and Equipment
9.    To strengthen the capacity of the members of the central and state level PCUs, a program of
short term technical assistance, training in computer and other technical skills, and purchase of
equipment for the information and monitoring system is planned. The nature of this program will
depend in part on the skills of the long term consultants hired to assist the PCU, and the completion



- 73 -
ANNEX D
Page 4 of 9
of the plan to upgrade state and central computer systems for the project information and monitoring
system. In addition, the PCU will be responsible for the identification and conduct of studies
regarding issues of rural and municipal development, community participation, decentralization and
poverty alleviation, not including in the program of studies for the individual project components.
The first study identified is concerning community-contracted procurement, to be completed by the
end of 1995.



- 74 -
Annex D
Page 5 of 9
Mexico Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project          Attachment I
Project Coordination
Table 1. Long Term Consulting Services to be Contracted at Federal and State Levels (US$)
(por persona)
Costo Anual - USS     Costo       Costo
Numero de  lsueldo mas USS       Total        Total
Unidad          Disciplina               Personas    15,000 viaje/viat)    Anuul      Proyecto
Personal - UCP Central
Fortalecimiento   Exp. Participacion Social   1            63,000         63,000      252,000
Municipal       Esp. Anal. Municipal          1           43,000          43,000      172,000
IFMS, Esc. Dig    Esp. Ing. Civil             1           43,000          43,000      172,000
y Fort. Mun.)    Ing. en Informatica          2            43,000         86,000      344,000
Ague            Ing. do
Potable y        Ague Potable                 1            63,000         63,000      252,000
Caminos        Ing. de
Rurales          Caminos                      1            63,000         63,000      252,000
Ings. Ague                    2           43,000         8s,000       344,000
Ings. Caminos                 2           43,000          86,000      344,000
Esp. Participacion Social     1           43,000          43,000      172,000
Proyectoa      Ing. Agronomo                  1            63,000         63,000      252,000
Productivos     Econ. Agricultura             1            43,000         43,000      172,000
Administracion    Esp. Informatica            2            43,000         86,000      344,000
de Informatica
TOTAL-Contro                                  16                          768.000    3.072,000
EN LA UCP EN LOS ESTADOS:
Coord. de
Proyecto       Administrador                 8            63,000         504,000    2,016,000
Fondos Mun.    Ing. Civil                     16           43,000         688,000    2,752,000
(y E.D/Fort.    Esp. Participacion
Municipall       Social                       8            43,000         344,000    1,376,000
Ague Pot. y     Ing.- Ague                    8            43,000         344,000    1,3i6,000
Caminos Rural.  Ing.- Caminos                 8            43,000         344,000    1,376,000
Proy. Product.   Ing.- Agronomo               3            43,000         129,000     516,000
Administracion   Ing. lnformatica            16           43,000          88,000    2,752,000
Financieraelnfor.  Admin. Financiera          8           43,000         344,000    1,376.000
EN LAS UNIDADES DE
APOYO MUNICIPAL
Ague
Potable y       Ing.- Ague                    16           43,000         688,000    2,752,000
Esp.-Participacion            8            43,000         344,000    1,376,000
Caminos        Ing.- Cwminos                  116          43,000         688,000    2,752,000
Esp.-Participecion            8            43,000         344,000    1,376,000
TOTAL - Estadoa                               123                        5.449.000   21,796,000
TOTAL - CENTRO Y LOS ESTADOS                  139                        6,217,000   24,868,000
TOTAL CON CONTICIENCIAS                                                   6,571,058   26,284,233



- 75 -
ANNEX D
Page 6 of 9
Attachment I
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEDESOL Strengthening and Project Coordination Component
Table 2. Technica Assistance, Training, Equipment, Studies, and Audit
Total
Cost
Area                               Unit          Quantity             US$
1. Evaluatons
Annual Physical Performance
Evaluation                        study            3               975,000
Mid-term Project Review            study             1              325,000
Subtotd (Evaluations)                                              1,300,000
2. Technioa Assiatanoa &
Traring
TA for ech Component
- Municipal lnvestment &
Strengthening                persor-month        12              180,000
- Rural Water Supply          person-month         12              180,000
- Rural Roads                 person-month         12              180.000
- Income-gnrating Comp.       peron-month          12              180,000
- Project information and
monitoring system            peron-month         12              180,000
Training for PCUa (State and Central)
- Data base management and
use of analytical tools
- in Central PCU                 courses           12              120.000
- in state PCUa                  courses           24              240,000
- Training in word procssing     coursao           10              100,000
-Technial Study Tours             tripe             4              100,000
Studies
- Community procurement
study                           study             1              200,000
- Other studies                   study             7             1,000,000
SUBTOTAL iTA ,Training and Studlial                                 2U660,000
3. Equipment
- Computer                        Iota              9             1,575,000
- Software                        Iots              9               45.000
SUBTOTAL lEquipment)                                                1.620.000
4 Annual Proeact
Audkt                                       audits            4             3,000.000
SUBTOTAL                                                            3.000.000
TOTAL                                                                          8,580,000
GRAND TOTAL with oontingnaies                                                  9.068.831



- 76 -
ANNEX D
Page 7 of 9
Attachnent II
MEXCO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
PROJECT OPERATIONAL MANUAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    Manual de Operacidn del Proyecto de Descentralizacion y Desarrollo Regional II (PDDR II).
I.     Presentacion General del Proyecto
II.    Resumen de los Componentes del Proyecto
m.    Ciclo de Inversidn
IV.   Sistema de Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n
V.    Auditorfa del Proyecto
VI.   Estructura, Funciones y Actividades de Coordinacidn del Proyecto
2.    Anexos
I.     Anexos Generales
A.    Matriz de Implementacion Institucional del Proyecto
B.    Manual de Informatica y Monitoreo
C.    Tablero de Desembolso por Componente
D.    Manual de Licitaciones, Desembolsos y Auditorla
H.    Anexos Sobre Fondos Municipales (Municipal Investnent and Instfrtonal
Development Component)
A.    Reglas para la Distribuci6n de Recursos de Fondos Municipales (FMS) a los
Municipios de cada Estado
B.    Cedulas de Informacion por Obra (Data Sheets) para FMS y Escuela Digna
C.    Gufa para la elaboraci6n de expedientes Tecnicos para FMS
D.    Manuales de Autoconstruccidn
E.    FMS: Manual de Operacion



- 77 -
ANNEX D
Page 8 of 9
Attachment II
F.    FMS: Gufa Operativa para Presidentes Municipales
G.    Escuela Digna: Manual de Operacion
H.    Escuela Digna: Gufa Operativa para Presidentes Municipales
I.    Estrategia de los Grupos Interestatales (Grupo de Finanzas Municipales y
Grupo de FMS y ED) y Grupos Estatales de Presidentes Municipales
J.    Plan de Apoyo para el Desarrollo Institucional
IH.   Anexos sobre Agua Potable en Zonas Rurales
A.    Gufa para la elaboraci6n de Proyectos de Agua Potable en localidades Rurales
con poblacion entre 500 a 5000 habitantes
B.    Criterios de elegibilidad de Sistemas de Agua Potable para financiamiento
C.    Modelo de Convenio para la realizaci6n de obras por la Comunidad
D.    Estrategia de Participacidn de las Comunidades en el Seguimiento, Operacidn
y Mantenimiento de los Sistemas de Agua Potable
E.    Programa General de Desarrollo Institucional (Capacitacidn, Asistencia
T'cnica, Equipo y Estudios)
F.    Estrategia Estatal de Apoyo Municipal para Agua Potable en Zonas Rurales
(Unidad de Apoyo Municipal)
G.    Estrategia de Grupo Interestatal de Agua Potabie
IV.   Anexos Sobre Rehabilitacion y Mantenimiento de Caminos Rurales
A.    Listado Priorizado de Caminos Rurales
B.    Lineamientos para la Selecci6n y Criterios de Elegibilidad de Caminos Rurales
para la rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento
C.    Gufa Tecnica para la Elirninaci6n de Puntos Crfticos
D.    Modelo de Convenio para la realizaci6n de Obras por la Comunidad
E.    Estrategia de Participacidn de las Comunidades en el Seguimiento de las
Obras



- 78 -
ANNEX D
Page 9 of 9
Attachment II
F.    Gufa Operativa para el Programa de Mantenimiento Rutinario de Caminos
Rurales (Pe6n Caminero), incluye Modelo de Contrato
G.    Programa de Desarrollo Institucional (Capacitacidn, Asistencia Tecnica,
Equipo y Estudios)
H.    Terminos de Referencia para: (i) Sistema de Informacidn y Monitoreo para
Caminos Rurales; (ii) Apoyo Tecnico en Proyectos de Ingenierfa Eliminacion
de Puntos Crfticos y para la actualizacion de la metodologfa
I.    Estrategia Estatal de Apoyo Municipal para la Rehabilitacidn de Puntos
Crfticos y Mantenimiento de Caminos Rurales (Unidad de Apoyo Municipal)
J.    Estrategia del Grupo Interestatal de Caminos Rurales
V.    Anexos sobre el Componente de Actividades Productivas (Income-Generatlng
Connent)






- 79 -                       ANNEX E
Page 1 of 5
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Application of Lessons Learned from the
First Decentralization and Regional Development Project
1.    The ongoing experience of the first DRD project has been examined in the
following ways: (a) annual project audits which reviewed physical as well as
financial implementation; (b) independent evaluation of Municipal Funds in 50
municipalities of Oaxaca; (c) SEDESOL's internal evaluation of Municipal Funds in
the four states; (d) SEDESOL's annual project implementation reports; and (e) field
supervision by the Bank, especially of the water supply, rural roads, environmental
protection, and Municipal Funds programs. Among the positive conclusions that can
be drawn from the information available thus far are:
(a)    decentralization of fiscal resources to rural communities through the
Municipal Funds program results in cost effective works, and, within
the limits of the funding and technical expertise available, selection
of investments is reflective of community priorities;
(b)   the introduction of eligibility criteria for rural roads, water supply
and electrification works selected at the state level has eliminated a
significant number of uneconomic investments, and has introduced a
concept of planning and prioritization to those agencies; and
(c)   the availability of timely information about the execution of these
decentralized programs has allowed the federal government to
respond by taking corrective actions or modifying program
guidelines, as appropriate.
2.    Among the most significant criticisms of the first project are:
(a)   the spread of investments over too many sectors and institutions,
diluting the impact of institutional development efforts and making
project monitoring and supervision difficult;
(b)   lack of institutional incentives and capability to provide technical
guidance and review by SEDESOL and state agencies;
(c)   lack of strategy and procedures for the implementation of the
productive component, leading to a low level of project financing
dedicated to it;
(d)    need for greater technical support to communities and municipalities
for the implementation of Municipal Funds investments; and



- 80 -
ANNEX E
Page 2 of 5
(e)    need to further improve and to institutionalize mechanisms for
targeting funds to areas of greatest need and potential effect.
3.    The design of the Second DRD project has incorporated lessons derived
from the first project in that it will: (a) simplify and improve the operationality of
the project in spite of the increased number of states; (b) focus more strongly on
rural areas to better attend the poor; (c) increase the economic efficiency of
investments selected; (d) improve project monitoring; and (e) further decentralize
project implementation to improve efficiency, provide greater opportunity for
participation of project beneficiaries and strengthening of local and state institutions.
With this purpose, modifications have been made in the structure of the overall
project and its individual components, the mechanisms of project implementation and
monitoring, and the role and technical capacity of SEDESOL to oversee project
implementation.
Limiting Project Scope
4.    Areas of project investment have been reduced from ten to four to focus on:
(a) rural municipal development through the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna
programs; (b) rural water supply; (c) rural roads; and (d) income-generating
investment, undertaken on a pilot basis. This simplification should allow both
SEDESOL and Bank supervision to focus with greater effectiveness on a more
limited number of implementation issues.
5.    In addition, given the decentralization objective of the project, implementing
agencies for all components, except the productive component, have been limited to
state agencies. Twenty-four state agencies (one each for Municipal FundslEscuela
Digna, rural water supply and rural roads in each of eight states) would be operating
under the Second DRD project instead of the approximately seventy (state and
federal) in the four states of the first DRD project.
6.    Further simplification would result from a strong emphasis on the successful
Municipal Funds component, to receive about 59% of the new loan instead of 159%
estimated at the time of appraisal of the first DRD project.
Targeting of Component Financing and Activities
7.    The design of each component has been modified to reduce the scope of
actions to better focus on key rural development needs. In addition, each component
has been tailored to implement simple technologies that can be easily carried out by
community groups and by small contractors, and would include a specific
institutional strengthening program. The strengthening actions would be principally
of a technical nature addressing priority problems that can be partially resolved
through training and targeted technical assistance (see Annex J).
8.    The Municipal Funds program evolved significantly during the
implementation of the first DRD project, resulting in increased community
participation in decision-making and management of investments. Beginning with
the Second DRD project, the distribution of funds among municipalities would be
based on measurable criteria linked to level of poverty, and 25 large urban



- 81 -
ANNEX E
Page 3 of 5
municipalities would be excluded from project financing. In addition, the rules of
distribution of Municipal Funds between urban municipal capitals (cabeceras) and
surrounding rural localities have been redefined during the first project to better
channel financing to rural areas.
9.    The water supply component of the first project has been redesigned to
respond to an analysis of the needs of rural areas instead on relying only on a
demand driven system that included medium cities. The component would focus on
water supply system construction and rehabilitation in localities within a 500-5,000
range of population. Localities under 500 population would also receive assistance
with water supply, but through the Municipal Funds component. Eligibility criteria
of the water component would favor the use of lower cost, appropriate designs and
technologies and maximize the coverage of the component. Improving the quality of
water supply systems would be addressed through: (a) contracting engineering
works; (b) establishing and providing training for state level MSUs; and (c)
strengthening ongoing field reviews of completed works (see Annex G).
10.   The rural roads component would eliminate financing of new constructions
to focus on rehabilitation and routine maintenance on the low end of the rural roads
network (single lane roads) used by the poorest people. The component would focus
on spot improvements because they are easier to be planned, designed, implemented
and also because they are significantly more cost effective than full reconstruction
(see Annex H).
11.    The income-generating component would not be wide open (as in the first
project) but would be limited to strengthening income-generating investments under
Municipal Funds and to supporting a pilot program in one or two states. (see Annex
n.
Implementation Mechanisms
12.   The mechanisms and procedures of implementation have been redesigned to
speed up and simplify the process of investment selection and implementation.
13.   For the municipal investment and institutional development component the
complex selection grid design for the first project is no longer in use. Instead,
investment selection is guided by: (a) a general set of criteria for prioritizing
potential investments; (b) financial incentives to promote selection of investments for
what government considers basic needs, for example, water supply systems (80%
financing) instead of parks and community centers (60% financing); and (c) a limit
on the amount of financing which can be used for street paving.
14.   Preliminary work has been done in the water supply and rural roads
components to make implementation easier. In water supply, investment evaluations
have been prepared in order to help in the design of the annual action plans. In
ural roads, each road link candidate for rehabilitation has been identified and
ranked. Simple eligibility criteria have been established to avoid lengthy selection
process, tricky economic analysis, or too strong political bias.



- 82 -
ANNEX E
Page 4 of 5
15.   Technical models and typical documentation have been designed to speed up
the engineering and the procurement process for the Municipal Funds, rural water
supply and rural roads components. A Project Operational Manual that details all
the steps to be carried out by the different executing agencies has been established.
16.   Two new communication structures have been established to strengthen
project implementation: (a) ITGs (for roads, water supply, Municipal Funds, and
fiscal strengthening); and (b) MSUs within the water supply and rural roads state
agencies to assist the municipalities. These new structures would sensitize the states
to their common decentralization issues, and allow them to jointly prepare a
diagnosis of their situation and develop technical recommendations for training and
technical assistance.
Improvement of the Project Monitoring Mechanisms
17.   During the implementation of the first project, the PCU ceased to depend on
a rigid centralized information system and established a more flexible monitoring
system using a data base system. The information system is based on three modules
(technical, financial and procurement/disbursement) which are being installed at
decentralized (state) and centralized (national) levels at a minimum information
collecting cost. Since the project is made up of thousands of small subprojects, it
would be useless and costly to try to monitor the implementation of each subproject.
Therefore, the monitoring system has been designed to focus at the project level (see
Annex C).
18.   Reimbursement by the project special account would happen when the
subprojects are fully implemented (with some exceptions for large contracts). This
would dramatically reduce the number of SOEs. The Bank's no objection notice
would be given only once, at the time of presentation of draft SOEs. The Bank's no
objection would be based on the analysis of data supplied by the three modules of
the information system.
19.   The procurement rules would be the usual ones relating to local shopping
and local and international competitive bidding, with the exceptions of allowing: (a)
direct purchasing for investments in the Municipal Funds component; and (b) the use
of special contracts (convenios) where financing would be based on the
implementation of agreed outputs for subprojects under US$50,000 carried out under
the full responsibility of community groups.
20.   A project physical performance evaluation would be conducted annually
beginning in 1996. The evaluation would use sampling techniques to ensure an
adequate sampling of various subprojects types and sizes and implementing agencies.
The sampling would be representative of the structure of the project and of the
executing agencies.
Strengthening of SEDESOL
21.   SEDESOL is a young institution with little technical background. In the
implementation of the first project, SEDESOL was supposed to be assisted by the
federal normative institutions. In fact these federal institutions are not structured to



- 83 -
ANNEX E
Page 5 of 5
fulfill responsibilities aimed to help the decentralization process. Therefore,
SEDESOL needs to build greater capability to conduct technical supervision.
22.   The organization of SEDESOL's central PCU in Mexico would be
restructured and provided with greater technical expertise. This PCU would consist
of four sectorial units: Municipal Funds, Rural Water Supply, Rural Roads, and
Income-Generating Investments. Each unit would consist of a team of specialists in
their respective areas of activity. Administrative units would support the technical
units for procurement and disbursement, as well as information management issues
(see Annex D).
23.   At the state level, the SEDESOL delegation would be strengthened by the
creation of a small PCU, staffed in part with contracted technical specialists, that
would ensure that the functions of project coordination and supervision are carried
out.
Bank Supervision
24.   Supervision, monitoring and understanding of such complex social projects
requires significant field presence by the Bank. Supervision of the first DRD project
depended on the presence of a resident engineer in Mexico. Such a field presence
was invaluable for the success of the first DRD project and will be continued to
assure the continued improvement and success of project implementation under the
second project.






- 84 -
ANNEX F
Page 1 of 12
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Municipal Investment and Institutional Development Component
I. Background
1.    Although municipalities are constitutionally responsible for delivery of a
range of local services, many are neither financially nor technically capable of
providing them. This problem is greatest in rural municipalities in the poorest
states, where local services are usually limited to the operation of water supply
systems and minor repairs and improvements to local infrastructure and where most
local investment is financed and implemented by state or federal agencies.
Experience has shown that these externally managed investments often lack
responsiveness to the priority needs of local communities, and suffer from poor
quality of implementation and lack of follow-up maintenance or repair.
2.    In addition to lacking resources and technical capability, many municipal
governments have little experience with citizen participation, especially of its poorest
citizens, and those that live outside the cabecera. While in the last five years laws
have been passed to increase the representation of minority interests on the
municipal councils, and opposition parties have gained representation in a number of
municipalities, a significant amount of the rural population have little influence on
local decision-making. The January 1994 uprising in Chiapas, including the
invasion and trashing of four municipal headquarters and demands made by the
rebels for electoral reform at local, as well as national, levels, is one reflection of
the historically-based problems with local government.
3.     Within the eight project states, there is a great deal of diversity in both the
structure and representativeness of municipal governments, reflective of a federal
system where sovereign state governments establish many of the rules governing
municipal life. Oaxaca is the least typical of the eight states, with 570
municipalities, of which 517 are completely rural' and extremely small, with an
average population of 3,200. Chiapas and Michoacan, by comparison, have similar
total state populations, but have only Il l  and 113 municipalities respectively.
4.     Oaxaca also has a long tradition of community representation, with local
communities selecting their own local municipal administrators (agentes
municipales). In the other seven states, this position is often appointed by the
mayor, and the agentes may or may not represent the interests of their communities.
Because Mexican municipalities work on a 'strong mayor' model, and municipal
councils are selected through party slate, at-large elections, these agentes become an
important link between the rural community and local government. Therefore, it is
1. A rual municipality is defined as a municipality whose cabecera has less than 5,000
inhabitants.



- 85 -
ANNEX F
Page 2 of 12
important that a number of states, including Hidalgo and Veracruz, are moving
toward a system of local selection of these agentes.
II. Municipal Investment and Strengthening Program
5.     The Municipal Investment and Strengthening component is designed to
address each of the three main issues identified above which affect performance of
rural municipalities, that is, financial resources, technical capacity, and communitv
participation. The component will: (a) provide investment capiral to
municipalities, through the Municipal Funds and Escuela Digna programs; (b)
finance technical assistance and training; and (c) foster citizen participation through
citizen involvement in resource allocation decisions in the Municipal Solidarity
Councils and in the implementation of selected investments through the Solidarity
Committees.
6.     The component consists of three subcomponents: (a) Municipal Funds; (b)
Escuela Digna (school rehabilitation); and (c) municipal strengthening.
A. Municipal Funds Subcomponent
7.     The Municipal Funds program was initiated in 1990, as part of the National
Solidarity Program and currently is being implemented in all 31 of Mexico's states.
The two principal objectives of the Municipal Funds Program are to: (a) transfer
resources to and strengthen municipal governments of the country, so that works of
wide social benefit can be executed; and (b) strengthen community participation and
involvement in decision-making, considering that the municipality is the
governmental structure with greatest contact with communities.2 Guidelines for the
implementation of the Municipal Funds are established in the Municipal Funds
Operational Manual and Technical Guidelines, annexed to the Manual Unico de
Solidaridad.
8.     Since their initiation, Municipal Funds have been targeted to rural areas, due
to the high incidence of rural poverty and to the fact that the program is better suited
to rural areas. In general, rural areas require less complex infrastructure, have
active community organizations (e.g., the ejidos), and an absence of local
government presence which provides greater opportunity for community
participation. Experience has shown that Municipal Funds investments are less well
suited to urban or peri-urban areas where infrastructure needs often demand greater
levels of funding and technical input and planning than usually occurs within the
Municipal Funds program.
9.     The Municipal Funds program provides annual allocations of grant funds to
municipal governments, for investment in projects identified and implemented by
their communities. The maximum size allowed for any single project is currently
set at US$50,000; nevertheless, the average size of a Municipal Funds investment in
the project states has been less than US$14,000. As is generally the case for
Solidarity programs, Municipal Funds involve a federal-state matching grant of
either 75125 for the poorest states (including the eight project states) and 50/50 for
2. Fondos Municipales de Solidaridad, Proyccio de Descentralizacidn y Desarrollo
Regional, Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo y Oaraca, Guia Tt'cnica, 1993, SEDESOL, p. 10.



- 86 -
ANNEX F
Page 3 of 12
wealthier states. In addition, communities are expected to match the funds received
for a specific investment, by contributing a minimum of 20% of the total cost
themselves. In some cases (e.g., Guerrero and Hidalgo), muni.ipal governments are
required to contribute a portion of the state's matching share.
10.    For the eight states, the amount of per rural capita Municipal Funds received
in 1992 ranged from 6 dollars per capita to 10 dollars per capita. A typical rural
community of 3,000 people of Oaxaca received an annual allocation of
approximately USS20,000, and a typical rural community of Chiapas of 15,000
people received an annual allocation of approximately US$100,000. See attached
Table 1 for an indication of the level of funding of Municipal Funds in the eight
states through the end of 1992.
11.    During the implementation of Municipal Funds within the first DRD project,
a number of innovations were developed, many of which have already been
generalized to the national program. These innovations include limitation of
expenditures in municipal cabeceras, depending on the relative rural or urban nature
of the municipality;' emphasis on implementation of subprojects by Solidarity
Committees (rather than municipal administrations); and emphasis given to the
constitution and role of a specially formed Municipal Solidarity Council (MSC),
with representation of rural communities, to plan and supervise the use of these
investment funds. In addition, the requirement for community contribution was
raised from 20% to 40% for a range of projects including public parks, sports
fields, and community buildings.
12.    Annual Allocation of Municipal Funds Resources. Solidarity funds, like
most public investment funds in Mexico, are committed on an annual basis. A total
Solidarity allocation is made each year for each state, based on a combination of
historical precedent and a process of negotiations between federal and state
governments. Within the total Solidarity commitment, state governments have
relative freedom to allocate funds among the over 30 different Solidarity programs,
including Municipal Funds. In practice, the eight states have consistently increased
in real terms the amount of money going to Municipal Funds (see Table 1). In
addition, as the implementation of Solidarity progresses, governors may request the
re-allocation of unspent Solidarity funds from one category to another. State
requests in mid-year to add funds to the Municipal Funds program have been
common, when implementation in another program category has been slower than
expected
13.    Formula and Procedures for Distribution of Funds to Municinalities. The
state governments have decided each year the distribution of Municipal Funds to
municipalities. While the methods of establishing this distribution have differed
greatly, in general they tended to follow the guidelines of SEDESOL to target
3. Municipalities have been divided into three groups: Group A which includes all
municipalities which are 100% rural (no locality over 5,000); Group BI which includes
semi-rural municipalities where the cabecera is over 5,000, but where at least one-third of
the population lives outside the cabecera; and Group B2 which includes highly urban
municipalities in which the cabecera is over 5,000 and at least two-thirds the population of
the municipality live in the cabecera. Expenditures in the cabeceras of Group A are limited
to 50%, in Group Bl to 25%, and Group B2 to 409%. In addition, 25 of the largest B2
municipalities have been excluded from participation in the program.



- 87 -
ANNEX F
Page 4 of 12
municipalities in greatest need. Beginning in 1995, however, each of the eight
project states will use a formula for distribution that has been proposed by them and
agreed by SEDESOL and the Bank. It is expected that these formulas will address
some of the current inequalities among municipalities, continue to ensure that greater
weight is given to poor, rural municipalities, and provide for greater transparency in
decision-making. The allocation of funds to municipalities is authorized by the state
and SEDESOL in the "oficio de aurorizacidn," which is signed by both
organizations.
14.   Selection of Investments. Once municipal governments have been notified of
their allocation, they present to the state government and SEDESOL a list of
proposed subprojects for the year, the total budget of which may not exceed funds
allocated. These subprojects are selected in a multi-phase process, which includes:
(a) comrnunity assemblies in which projects of interest to that community are
identified and prioritized; (b) meetings of the MSC, in which the proposals of all
communities are discussed and priorities for financing established; (c) the
preparation of technical proposals for subprojects selected; and (d) submission of the
consolidated municipal proposal to the state government and SEDESOL for review
and approval.
15.    Municipalities are given a significant amount of freedom in defining their
investment program. Nevertheless, program guidelines indicate that priority should
be given to: (a) water supply, rural roads, sewage and latrines, electrification,
rehabilitation of health centers, educational infrastructure, and productive works; (b)
projects with the largest number of beneficiaries and lowest cost per beneficiary; and
(c) projects in communities with the greatest levels of poverty. Investment in
churches, municipal buildings, and cemeteries are not permitted. The proposed
allocation of funds for specific subprojects within municipalities is approved
by SEDESOL through the 'oficlo de aprobaci6n." It is at this point that the state
government and SEDESOL can review compliance of municipalities to the
restrictions on expenditures in the cabecera (see para. 11).
16.   Investment Implementation. All investments financed in municipalities by
the Municipal Funds must be completed within the calendar/fiscal year approved,
that is, prior to December 31. In past years, delays in the process of allocating
funds, selecting subprojects, developing technical designs, and receiving state and
federal approvals for individual subprojects reduces the actual implementation time
available to less than six months. This problem is being partially addressed in 1994
by the inclusion of Municipal Funds in the special federal budget which is allocated
in January, and called the acuerdo de secas.
17.   With the approval of subprojects by SEDESOL and the state, Municipal
Presidents are given one-half of their approved budget to deposit into a special
account. Implementation of subprojects is generally by the Solidarity Committee
with money advanced by the municipality based on the approved subproject budget.
In some cases, the Solidarity Committee is given materials purchased by the
municipality in accordance with the agreed technical proposal. In relatively rare
cases, subprojects are contracted by the municipal government (e.g., the installation
of a well) or implemented directly by municipal government employees. In all
cases, the budget for the subproject is used only for purchase of goods, services or
skilled labor, and not for the payment of local salaries or unskilled community
labor. Based on the Oaxaca Municipal Funds evaluation study, it is estimated that



- 88 -
ANNEX F
Page 5 of 12
approximately 80 percent of the projects in Oaxaca have been implemented by
Solidarity Committees which have received the actual funds, with most of the
remaining projects implemented by the Committees with materials purchased by the
municipal government.
18.   Disbursement. Recognition of the expenditures for Municipal Funds
subprojects by the Bank is done on the basis of the Acta de Recepcidn, a one page
document signed by the Solidarity Committee and municipality, which describes the
subproject, indicates the total expenditures, and testifies that the subproject has been
satisfactorily completed. For internal government of Mexico purposes, the
Municipal Presidents must present to state government receipts collected from the
Solidarity Committee to justify expenditures for each subproject. Based on these
receipts, additional funds may be advanced to the municipality to complete the
subproject or to initiate new ones.
19.   Strengthening Subproject Technical Ouality. The technical quality of
subprojects implemented by communities through the Municipal Funds program has
varied depending on the type of subproject. Structures such as school buildings,
street paving, community houses, basketball courts, and concrete bridges have
tended to be well built. Where local construction skills have been insufficient,
municipalities have sought, and often received, assistance of a civil engineer for the
technical design work for these kinds of subprojects. More difficulty has occurred,
however, with water supply systems, where the assistance of a civil engineer is often
not sufficient for the design of even simple distribution systems. Finally, the
absence of productive subprojects might be blamed in part for the lack of technical
assistance in identifying and promoting income generating activities.
20.   During the first DRD project, technical assistance was provided to
municipalities for subproject design from a variety of sources,' including state line
agencies, regional offices of the state COPLADE and SEDESOL delegation, and the
private sector, including citizens of the municipality who donated their time. For
the second project, a plan for financing and contracting technical assistance in
engineering (especially for rural water supply and rural roads) has been developed
by SEDESOL, and will be piloted in several states during the first year. In
addition, municipalities will have access to specialized state or SEDESOL staff, who
would be based in regional offices, as well as access to technical assistance from the
MSUs of the state rural water and rural roads agencies.
B. Escuela Digna Subcomponent
21.   The Escuela Digna program was initiated in the same year as the Municipal
Funds program, and through the end of 1992, had provided financing for over
33,000 subprojects for the rehabilitation and equipping of existing school
infrastructure in poor neighborhoods and rural areas in the eight states of the Second
DRD project. A 1993 review conducted of the government's school construction
and rehabilitation program pointed to the Escuela Digna program as succeeding in
carrying out high quality repairs and rehabilitation at a minimum cost. The program
has provided a vehicle for organizing parents to become involved in their children's
school, thereby creating an opportunity to use this organization to encourage other
kinds of parental involvement (see study of Mexico primary school construction and
rehabilitation programs referenced in Annex M).



- 89 -                      ANNEX F
Page 6 of 12
22.   The guidelines for the implementation of the Escuela Digna program are
very similar to those of the Municipal Funds programs. The main differences are:
(a) funds are allocated by state government based on request by municipalities; (b)
use of funds is strictly limited to school rehabilitation and equipment; and (c)
Escuela Digna Solidarity committees do not participate in the Municipal Solidarity
Council. In addition, program guidelines allow for the financing of consolidated
purchases of school equipment by state level authorities. The project, however, will
only finance those subprojects implemented by the local level Solidarity Committee.
Based on past experience, it is anticipated that the average subproject cost will be
less than US$4,000. No subprojects would be financed above the limit of
US$50,000, which is the limit also set for Municipal Funds subprojects. The
monitoring system and procedures for evaluation for Escuela Digna will be the same
as that for Municipal Funds (see paras. 35 to 36). Guidelines for the
implementation of the Escuela Digna program are established in the Escuela Digna
Operational Manual and Technical Guidelines, annexed to the Manual Unico de
Solidaridad. See attached Table 1 for an indication of the level of funding of
Escuela Digna in the eight states through 1993.
C. Municipal Strengthening Subcomponent
23.   The elements of the municipal strengthening subcomponent are presented in
paras. 3.19 - 3.21 of the SAR and summarized in Table 2. It is estimated that over
4,000 municipal officials and community representatives would receive training in
over 340 training events, study tours and exchanges with other municipalities. In
addition, over 385 person-months of technical assistance would be provided in the
areas of revenue generation, municipal budgeting and financial management, and
investment and O&M planning. As part of the effort to improve municipal
budgeting and financial management, the project will also finance simple accounting
equipment, including microcomputers for rural and semi-rural municipalities. This
program would complement sector specific institutional development efforts
conducted under the other project components, especially in the area of rural water
supply and rural roads (see Annexes G and H).
1.    State Level Municipal Presidents Working Groups (MPWGs)
24.   Objectives. One of the greatest challenges of the project is to ensure that
plans for institutional development activities and project investment are not
established unilaterally by the state and federal authorities, but that the ultimate
clients of the project have a voice in its implementation. The objective of MPWGs
in each state is to provide a forum for substantive participation of municipal
presidents in the ongoing analysis of issues and priorities of rural municipalities and
in reviewing and strengthening the implementation of the project.
25.   Strategy. Building from the workshops held of municipal presidents during
project preparation, SEDESOL and the state Planning and Finance Secretariats
would initiate the MPWGs (one in each state). Ten to 15 municipal presidents
might participate, with representation of each region of each state, and with
participation r6tating each year, along with representatives of key project
implementing agencies. Assistance in group facilitation would be provided to
strengthen the initiation and development of the MPWGs, ensuring that they
effectively work on an agenda to contribute to achieving project objectives. Since



- 90 -                        ANNEX F
Page 7 of 12
the use of these groups is totally new, it is anticipated that the development of the
group will take time and that the experience will differ among states.
26.    Agenda. The agenda for the first meeting should focus on: (a) objectives of
the MPWG; (b) review of the project and its components; and (c) specific discussion
of the municipal strengthening subcomponent and work plan for 1995. In following
meetings, emphasis should also be placed on more in-depth presentation and
discussion of the other subcomponents/components (Municipal Funds, Escuela
Digna, rural water supply, rural roads, and the pilot income-generating component).
Minutes from the meetings, to be held two times a year, would be distributed to the
Municipal Presidents from all municipalities participating in the project. The project
would support the activities of the MPWG in each state by financing expenditures of
three meetings per year per state, each estimated to cost US$4,000 (Table 2).
2.    Fiscal Strengthening ITG
27.    Objectives. The problems of rural municipalities in the eight project states
are very similar: they lack resources in order to provide basic services; they are
dependent on monthly state revenue-sharing for about 90 percent of their budget;
they often do poorly in recovering the costs of operations and maintenance from user
fees; and they do very little analysis of their actual expenditures or planning for
investments. The purpose of the Fiscal Strengthening 1TG is to provide a forum for
representatives of the eight state governments (principally Secy. of Finance) and the
MPWG to: (a) discuss and review institutional strengthening activities of each state;
and (b) identify areas of common concern and assist the SEDESOL PCU (central
and state levels) in planning to address them through studies, technical assistance and
training.
28.    Strategy. This group was formed during the first DRD project, with the
Secretaries of Finance of the four project states meeting quarterly to discuss
strategies for strengthening the fiscal and administrative capacity of municipalities,
and reviewing each state's experience in carrying out municipal strengthening
activities and related legislative and bureaucratic reforms. In the Second DRI)
project, the group would be enlarged to include representatives of municipal
presidents from the state level MPWG.
29.    Agenda. The agenda for the first meeting should focus on: (a) review of
the objectives of the project and specifically of the municipal strengthening
subcomponent; (b) sharing of plans for municipal strengthening in each state; and (c)
identification of common areas of concern that might be addressed through centrally
coordinated activities, to be managed by the PCU. Subsequent meetings should
focus on specific issues for which states would share experience and identify
priorities to address in the technical assistance and training program. The agenda
might include, for example, rationalization and redefinition of criteria for
distribution of federal revenue-sharing, efforts to increase revenue generation in
rural municipalities, and approaches to improving accounting and financial
management in rural municipalities. The project would support the activities of the
ITG by financing expenditures of meetings and workshops estimated to cost
US$500,000 for about 16 meetings and workshop of two days duration (Table 2).



- 91 -                        ANNEX F
Page 8 of 12
3.    Municipal Funds ITG
30.   Objectives. The successful implementation of the Municipal Funds
programs requires a constant program of orientation and training for municipal
officials and Solidarity Committee members, the provision of engineering and other
technical assistance for subproject design, and a well-functioning data collection and
monitoring system. These efforts are being carried out in each state by the
SEDESOL delegation and the state Planning and Finance Secretariats. The purpose
of this group is to insure that these efforts are not carried out in isolation of one
another, and that issues of common concern are identified and addressed through a
coordinated program of studies, technical assistance, and training.
31.   Strategy. The ITG for Municipal Funds was initiated during project
preparation to address problems involved in the refinement of the monitoring system
and the installation of the system and related procedures in each state. The group
would be expanded under the second project to include representation of Municipal
Presidents as well as representatives of the state agencies and state SEDESOL
subdelegations responsible for the Municipal Funds program, and its focus would be
enlarged to include a wider array of issues. The group would meet three times per
year.
32.   Agenda. The agenda for the first meetings of the group would focus on: (a)
clarifying the objectives of the group and of the larger project; (b) reviewing the
implnementation of the monitoring system and identifying further refinements
necessary; and (c) conducting a comparative analysis of implementation of Municipal
Funds in the eight states using that information. In subsequent meetings, and based
on the assessments made, the ITG would begin to participate in the identification of
improved guidelines and procedures, studies, technical, and training to strengthen
implementation of the two programs. The project would support the activities of
this 1TG by financing expenditures of meetings estimated to cost US$400,000 for
about 12 meetings of two days duration (Table 2).
II. Organizational Arrangements and Project Monitoring
33    Organizational Arrangements. Within the SEDESOL PCU, a municipal
strengthening sub-unit would be established and maintained. The sub-unit would
include the following professionals: a specialist in municipal development, a civil
engineer, a specialist in social participation, and two information specialists
responsible for the upkeep of the data base and analysis of information. This sub-
unit would be responsible for: (a) supervising the component, ensuring that
guidelines are followed and proposing modifications as necessary; (b) managing the
information data base and conducting analysis of implementation; (c) managing the
institutional development activities, including the contracting of technical assistance,
studies, training, and purchase of equipment; and (d) supporting the development of
the ITGs and MPWGs. In addition, within the PCU of the state delegations of
SEDESOL, there will be a social participation specialist and a civil engineer
contracted with project financing to assist in the review and supervision of the
component.
34.   At the state level, the component would be supervised by SEDESOL, but
directly managed by the state Planning and Finance Secretariats. In addition, the
Fiscal Strengthening and Municipal Funds ITGs, and the MPWGs established in



- 92 -                        ANNEX F
Page 9 of 12
each state would support the planning, coordination, implementation, and review of
the component (see above paras. 24 to 32).
35.   Project Monitoring. Monitoring of the implementation of Municipal Funds
and programs will occur in two ways: (a) the maintenance and use of a data base
containing key technical, financial and social information about each subproject; and
(b) field supervision of implementation conducted by the central and state level
PCUs (see Annex C). Some of the specific areas for which ongoing guantitativ
analysis of implementation will be conducted include: (a) expenditures per capita by
type of municipality and adherence by states to the agreed distribution formulas; (b)
adherence by municipalities to limitations put on expenditures in the cabeceras, by
type of municipality (A, BI or B2); (c) extent of investment in indigenous vs. non-
indigenous communities; and (d) cost per beneficiary or other physical measurement
unit of given kinds of subprojects. The formats for the monitoring reports and the
agreed implementation targets and indicators are presented in Annex C.
36.   The field supervision of the component would complement and follow-up on
information provided by the data base as well as issues identified in the annual
physical performance evaluations. Field supervision would focus on qualitative
analysis of implementation, including such issues as: (a) extent to which
communities participate in the definition of priority subprojects and allocation of
funds; (b) community participation in subproject implementation; (c) quality and
potential impact of works concluded; and (d) strengths and weaknesses in support
provided by SEDESOL, state agencies, and contracted technical assistance. To
analyze the efficiency of community-managed procurement under these two
programs, a special study would be funded by the project, to be completed by
September 1995. As with the other components, a mid-term evaluation of
implementation would be contracted and completed by December 1996.



TABLE 1
MUNICIPAL FUND AND ESCUEILA DIGNA INVESTMENT BY STATE
(Federal Investment Only)
Year       Chiapas   Guerrero   Hidalgo    Michoacan  O_aaca    Puebla       Veracruz   Zacatecas  Total
1990 MF     21,995     65,573     20,220        0        56,215     64,084       0        19,208     247,295
ED    10,350      8,314      6,313      14,570     12,372     13,861     19,555     7,292      92,627
1991 MF     25,645     58,992      19,408       0        54,480     54,414       0        50,590     263,528
ED    18,639     12,062      7,702      22,854     11,999     31,633     15,590     8,755      129,233
1992 MF     53,402     58,455      19,303       0        51,405     63,130     68,043     31,802     345,540
ED    13,796     10,775     18,605      38,925     9,903      9,570      12,030     6,458      120,062
1993 MF*    60,739     67,711     32,942      48,328     72,246     104,781    117,700    10,700     515,146
ED*   15,222      6,598      31,444       nd        9,841     21,880      4,381      4,183      93,548
Only preliminary figures are available for 1993
Note: All figures are in constant 1992 millions of pesos.
MF = Municipal Funds Program
ED = Escuela Digna Program
iie:



- 94 -
ANNEX F
ATTACHMVIENT I
Page 11 of 12
MUNICIPAL INVESTMENT AND STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
MUNICIPAL STRENGTHENING SUBCOMPONENT
TABLE 2
(US$)
Number   Number   Number  Number                   Total      Estimated    Total
Area            Action            person    studies/   training   of     Unit        Base         Price     Project
months   packaees  programs   mtgs.   Cost         Cost       Conting.     Cost
Revenue     Study of revenue gen.
Generation   issues in each state       -         8                         100,000       800,000    45,560    845,560
Technical assistance
for each state             75                                   15.000       1,125,000    64,069   1.189.069
Training of municipal       -                   35              25.000        875,000    49,831      924,831
officials
Other support (to be                            -              500,000        500,000    28,475    528,475
defined)
Sublotal                                                                    3.300.000   216.150   3,516,150
Municipal    Review of systems in
Budgedng and use /rurdl municipalities            1          :              400,000       400,000    22,780    422,780
Accounting
Technical assistance       120        -                         15,000       1.800.000   102,510   1,902.510
to municipalities
Equipment (computers,       -       1.000                       7,500       7,500.000   427.125   7.927,125
other accounting supplies)
Training of Municipal            -              20              50,000       1,000.000    56.950   1.056,950
Offidcs
Subtotal__                                                                  10,700,000   700,850  11.400,850
Strengthaning Technical a*sistance to   20                                   15,000        300,000    17,085    317,085
Participation/ design program for rural
Municipal    municipalities
Investment
and O&M     Workshops for                                   190S             10,000      1,900,000   108,205   2,008,205
Panning      municipel officials and
community leaders
Technical assistance to    60                                    15 000        900,000    51,255    951.255
municipalities
_Subtotal                                                                     3.100,000   203,050   3,303,050



- 95 -
ANNEX F
ATTACHMENT I
Page 12 of 12
Number               Number  Number                 Total      Estimated     Total
Area             Action           person    Number   training      of      Unit        Base        Price      Project
months    studies   programs meetings  Cost         Cost        Contina.     Cost
Municipal    Study tours within Mexico                       20               10,000        200,000    11,390      211,390
Officials    (avg. 10 municipal officials
Exchange    per tour)
Program
One-on-One exchange                             SO                 1,000         50.000      2,848      52,848
program
Exchange Workshops                              24                7,000         168,000      9,568     177,568
Ithree in each state)
Study tours abroad                               3               50,000         150,000      8.543     158,543
(16 municipal officials per
tour)
Subtotal                                                                        569.000    37.204      605.204
Interstate    Quarterly meetings of                                    16     30,000        480,000    27.336      507,336
Technical    State Finance Secretaries
Group -     Contaduria Mayor (state
Fiscal      congress), and reps, of
Strengthening municipalities (ITG -
Finance)
Interstate    Meetings of                                              12     30,000        360,000    20.502    380,502
Technical    State Planning Sec.
Group -     SEDESOL and reps. of
Mun. Funds   municipalities (ITG -
Mun. Funds)
Presidents   Mun. Pres. Wkirg Group -                                  96      4,000        384.000    21,869      405,869
State,level   Meetings in each state
Working Grps (3 per year)
=_______ =Subtotal                                                                        1.224.000    80 172   1 304,172
Other       TA and Studies                 130                                15,000       1,950.000   111 053   2061,053
Subtotal                                                                      1.950.000   127 725   2,077,725
TOTAL                                                                        20.842.000 1,186,952  22,028.952
of which for TA                                                               7,775.000   442.786   8.217,788
of which for Training                                                         5,567,000    317,041   5,884.041
of which for Equipment                                                        7.500.000    427.125   7,327,125



- 96 -
ANNEX G
Page 1 of 14
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Component
I. General Situation of the Project States
1.    Although, according to the 1990 INEGI census, the eight project states
represent 32 percent of Mexico's population, they include 53 percent of the national
population that live in localities under 500 inhabitants, 51 percent of the population
that lives in localities between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants, and 54 percent of those
households which lack access to water supply. When taken together, 36 percent of
the population of the eight states lack access to water, with the worst states being
Chiapas, Guerrero, Oaxaca, and Veracruz, with over 42 percent in each of these
states without water supply. Of the 9.2 million people in the eight states without
water, approximately 78 percent live in localities of 5,000 population or under.
H. Rural Water Supply Objectives and Strategy
2.    The rural water supply component has, as its main objective, improved
access to potable water supply by the rural population. That objective would be
achieved through the rehabilitation, extension and development of new systems, and
strengthening of local and state capacity to ensure the sustainabiity of these systems.
Approximately 1,300 communities with populations of 500 to 5,000 inhabitants will
benefit from expanded rural water supply coverage in the eight states. Coverage
will be expanded from 52 percent to 67 percent, and benefit approximately 1.9
million people. These works will be complemented by water supply works carried
out by municipalities under the Municipal Funds program, principally for localities
under 500 population. The component consists of two sub-components: (a)
rehabilitation and construction of water supply systems; and (b) institutional
strengthening for the SWAs and local water organizations. (See Annex C of the
SAR for annual targets of the component.)
m. Characteristics and Institutional Capacity of the State Water Supply
Agencies
3.    The SWAs of the eight states were created within the last 3 to 10 years as
semi-autonomous entities, and have the legal authority to construct, operate,
maintain, and administer water supply systems. However, the SWAs are principally
involved in contracting works and conducting emergency repairs, and as a rule do
not become involved in the daily operation or routine maintenance of systems. The
water supply systems of the largest municipalities are usually totally independent of
the state agencies, although these municipalities and their local water companies
sometimes contract for technical assistance from the SWAs. In rural areas, once
works contracted by the SWA have been completed and turned over to the
communities (or local water commission), the SWA does not return until there is a
new request for assistance from the community. These agencies do not have the



ANNEX G
Page 2 of 14
human resources, materials or organization to support routine preventive
maintenance or even larger corrective actions for rural water supply installations.
4.     As some of the SWAs have only been in operation a few years, many have
only limited technical capacity. They are organized in different ways, although all
have a basic structure formed around the areas of construction, operations (except
Chiapas), maintenance, planning, technical, administration, and finances. The eight
SWAs have a pyramid organizational structure, typical of institutions dedicated to
construction activities, instead of an agency dedicated to sector plAnning and the
provision of technical assistance. In addition, most of SWAs' work to date has been
in the contracting and financial control of civil works; they have engaged little in
physical monitoring and quality control of the works carried out.
5.     On average, the SWAs have eight employees for every 100,000 inhabitants
receiving water services, with 17 percent of the personnel engineers, 35 percent
other professionals, and the rest lower level personnel. The agencies tend to have
young staff, as 80 percent of the personnel are less than 40 years old and 55 percent
are less than 30. The average salary and benefits of agency staff is US$5,121 per
year, while the average volume of contracting per worker is US$49,392 per year.
The average number of vehicles per staff member is .23 and the age of the vehicles
are between 4 and 9 years old. All of the agencies, except Zacatecas, have an
information management capability.
6.     The SWAs have shown little capacity to formulate investment programs or
prepare a portfolio of projects that will allow for short or medium range planning.
Their capacity to undertake projects and to adequately supervise works is weak,
especially when dealing with small works where the elaboration of the project design
and the supervision of the work almost always falls directly on the personnel of the
state agency. SWA personnel have an overload of administrative work, even at
lower levels in the hierarchy.
7.    The proposed level of project investment of an annual average of 40
subprojects per state and an annual average investment of US$4.8 million per state
may appear low, but could represent a significant workload, given that these
agencies generally manage a small number of large works, and the project will
involve the implementation of a large number of smaller projects, dispersed through
the state, in areas of difficult access. The average level of proposed annual
investment per state is almost equal to 40 percent of the current budget of the
SWAs.
IV. Environmental Considerations
8.    The negative environmental impact of water supply works for localities
between 500 and 5,000 inhabitants is minimal, given that the water flows required to
supply these populations do not easily provoke substantial changes in the supply
source and the small works do not greatly affect the terrain. The problem of
contamination due to the discharge of waste water is minimal due to the limited
amounts of water used, its primarily domestic use, and the rural setting. The
construction of sewage systems is not considered within the project. Nevertheless,
within the technical guidelines for subproject design is included the necessity to
identify and diagnose the effect on the water source, and the effect of discharges on
the local population and surrounding environment as established by a checklist



- 98 -
ANNEX G
Page 3 of 14
included in the Project Operational Manual. Where necessary, the project can
finance latrines and septic tanks as an integral part of the water supply system.
Consideration was not given to financing drainage works, as these works may result
in the concentration of waste water, leading to greater environmental hazards.
V. The Rural Water Supply Component
Planning
9.    During the preparation of the project, data sheets for over 1,800 separate
works were received regarding service demand, relating to a potential beneficiary
population of 2.6 million inhabitants, and requiring an estimated investment of
US$235 million. The preceding implies a cost per beneficiary of US$90 and a cost
per work of almost US$130,000. With an investment considered for water supply
infrastructure, including engineering, of US$168 million (base cost), it is estimated
that 1,300 works of new construction, extension and rehabilitation can be
implemented to benefit 1.9 million rural inhabitants.
10.   The proposed level of investment is sufficient to address over 70 percent of
the population in the presented portfolio of projects. Nevertheless, the portfolio
developed thus far only represents 45 percent of the population without water in the
eight states. With the project investment, the level of water supply coverage in
communities between 500 and 5,000 population in the eight states will increase by
approximately 17 percent in four years (from the current 52% coverage to 68%
coverage). This increase, however, implies a real increase of only 8 to 10 percent,
considering a population growth rate of 2.5 percent per year.
Engineering
11.   Within the investment (US$168 million), the contracting of engineering
studies would also be financed, which would require an amount no larger than 5.5
percent of the total investment (US$9 million). The experience with the fist DRD
project demonstrates that a variety of guidelines and formats are used for the
elaboration of feasibility studies and technical designs (expedientes tecnicos); for
this reason, during the preparation of the second project, a "Guide for the
Elaboration of Expedientes Tecnicos' was written, and will be included as an annex
to the Project Operational Manual.
E:igibility Criteria
12.   The eligibility criteria for rural water supply works is based on an analysis
of information regarding works constructed in 1992 in the four states under the first
project (approximately 100 works), and information regarding current demand (a
sample of 613 works). The approach for determining eligibility criteria was to use a
Lorenz curve to allow for up to 80 percent of the demand to be addressed within the
cost per beneficiary limits placed on four kinds of works: (a) complete systems with
water captation from superficial sources; (b) complete systems with water captation
from subterranean sources; (c) partial systems; and (d) partial systems with
subterranean captation. See Attachment I, Table 1, for a summary of the eligibility
criteria developed based on this analysis.



- 99 -
ANNEX G
Page 4 of 14
13.   In the case of complete systems with superficial captation, the limit will
continue to be UTSS200/person, consistent with the first DRD project and with
Mexico's Second Water Supply and Sanitation Project. In the case of complete
systems with subterranean captation, the allowable cost would be increased to
US$350/person so that small communities which must depend on ground water
would not be automatically excluded from the project. In the case of partial works,
the indicators of eligibility in Attachment I, Table 1, are given in US$/person for
each subcomponent, which implies that for works with more than one
subcomponent, the corresponding values are summed to integrate the limit for the
specific work. In all cases, the benefited population refers to the total population of
the locality, according to the INEGI 1990 census, given that these criteria were
developed using this base.
14.   Applying the eligibility criteria with the sample of 534 proposed subprojects
of superficial captation, 42 percent of the sample of subprojects in localities of 500
to 750 inhabitants can be attended, 86 percent of the subprojects in the range of 751
to 1,250, and 96 percent of subprojects in the ranges of 1,251 to 5,000. These
eligibility criteria are acceptable, taking into account that: (a) the portfolio of
demand (the sample) presented by the eight states is not complete and will be
expanded during project implementation; and (b) project financing can attend no
more than 51 percent of the number of subprojects already presented. Nevertheless,
with the updating of information provided through the project data sheets (cedulas de
informacion), the eligibility criteria can be reviewed and revised if necessary.
Institutional Development Program
15.    The objective of the institutional development program for the rural water
supply component is to strengthen the SWAs and rural and semi-rural municipalities,
especially in planning, engineering design, information systems, and maintenance of
rural water systems. This includes improving the technical level of professionals in
the state agencies and developing the technical capacity at the municipal level (in
operations and maintenance).
16.   These objectives would be achieved through four types of actions: (a) a
technical assistance program; (b) a program for professional development and
technology upgrading; (c) creation of a Rural Water Supply ITG composed of the
heads of each SWA; and (d) formation of an MSU in each SWA. A summary of
these actions and related project costs are presented in Attachment I, Table 2.
1. Technical Assistance Program
17.   Technical assistance would be contracted to: (a) develop the methodology
for carrying out an inventory of existing hydraulic infrastructure and analyzing the
demand for water supply services and piloting its application; and (b) carrying out
other strategic studies. A summary of the TORs for the inventory and demand
analysis is attached (Attachment II, paras. 1-5). Its base cost is estimated to be
US$360,000, requiring a total of 54 person-months. The study should be contracted
as soon as possible and the pilot completed in four of the eight states by the end of
the second year of the project, and in all eight states by the end of the third year.
The other strategic studies will use the results of this first study as input. Therefore
they are planned to begin in the second year of the project. These studies would
cover (but not be limited to): (a) cost recovery, (b) alternate sources of energy and



- 100 -
ANNEX G
Page 5 of 14
energy savings, (c) geo-hydrological studies of ground water availability, and (d)
development of a management information system for the SWA. The estimated total
base cost of these studies is US$1,050,000. (See Attachment II, paras. 6-7 for
greater detail.)
2. Program for Professional Development and Upgrading of Technology
18.   The professional and technology development program have three basic
aspects: (a) the training of technical personnel of SWAs; (b) the training of those
responsible for water supply systems in the municipalities; and (c) the acquisition of
technical equipment and computers for SWAs. The description of each of these
areas is below:
(a)    Training of Technical Personnel in the SWAs
19.   Background and Objectives. There are some common skill deficiencies in
the SWAs in areas important for the implementation of their functions. These are
principally in computerized methods for calculating distribution networks, in the use
of computer programs in general, in the concepts of project evaluation, and in the
application of guidelines for O&M of water systems. The purpose of the training
program is to address these three areas.
20.   Program Description. The training program has been divided into five areas
(see Attachment I, Table 3): (a) basic engineering and environmental assessment;
(b) O&M; (c) computer programming and operations; (d) basic economics; and (e)
supervision of works. Each areas includes several modules, as described below.
(a)    Basic Engineering and Environmental Assessment: rural water
systems, hydraulics of pipes (tuberia), design of distribution
networks, assessment and mitigation of environmental impact,
analysis of costs, budgeting of works, development of technical
designs, basic geo-hydrology, design of pumps, and measurement.
(b)    Operations and Maintenance: operational manuals, operations costs,
maintenance manuals, maintenance costs, basic accounting.
(c)    Computer Programming and Operations: computer operating
systems, computer-assisted design (CAD), design of closed
distribution networks, spreadsheets, information systems,
management of data bases.
(d)    Basic Economic: concepts of statistics, economics, and project
evaluation.
(e)    Supervision of Works: supervision of contractors, conduct of field
reviews of completed works and works in progress.
21.    Characteristics and Goals. As can be seen in Table 3, each training module
has a different duration (from 16 to 40 hours), depending on the complexity of the
theme. The total program will include 22 courses given a total of 92 times (4 times
each), for a total length of training time of 69 days and 4,096 trainee-days. The
total base cost of the program would be US$676,000.



- 101 -
ANNEX G
Page 6 of 14
(b)    Training of Municipal Personnel
22.   Those responsible for the O&M of municipal water supply systems usually
do rudimentary work, such as turn on and off pumping equipment, charge and
collect water fees, and repair equipment or send it to be repaired. Nevertheless,
they do not maintain a record or control of operations or finance of the systems.
Because of this, it is important that the SWAs train the responsible technicians and
administrators of the municipal water supply unit, through the imparting of
theoretical and practical courses in the areas of O&M, environmental issues, and in
basic accounting. The courses will be given by the technicians of the municipal
support unit. The base cost is estimated to be approximately US$900,000 for the
training of technicians of 500 municipalities (500 persons trained, 12,000 person-
days of training).
(c)    Technology Upgrading
23.   Investment will also be made in equipment for the SWAs, including field
equipment (such as measuring devices, maintenance equipment and others) and other
equipment and software specialized for design work and hydraulic calculations
(graphics plotter, digitalizer, computer assisted design system, programs for the
analysis of networks, etc.). The base cost of this equipment and software is
estimated to be on average US$20,000 per state agency, for a total base cost of
US$160,000.
3. Water Supply Interstate Technical Group
24.   The SWAs have only a few years of being in operation and therefore have
had little opportunity for contact with other similar agencies. The PCU has not had
a forum for disseminating information or for following up on the project supported
water supply activities in the states. Because of this, it has been necessary to
establish an ITG for water supply.
25.   Objectives. The objectives of the ITG are: (a) develop the capacity to
dialogue and interchange experiences and information among state water agencies,
providing support to them in the process of strengthening their technical and
institutional capacity; and (b) provide an instrument for communication and feedback
among the SWAs and SEDESOL.
26.   Strategy. The strategy to establish and organize the Rural Water Supply
ITG will be flexible and informal in its first stage, with the structure of the group
gradually becoming formalized. The initial role of SEDESOL central within the
group is that of promoter, working with the states so that each state identifies its
high level management and technical team and, specifically, its representative to the
1TG. In the second stage, the ITG should become more autonomous, with its own
agreed procedures and working mechanisms.
27.   During its first year, the focus of the ITG will primarily be on the
interchange of experience among agencies and on discussions related to project start-
up. The ITG will meet four times per year, in a different state each time. In
addition to addressing organizational issues, the first ITG meeting should focus on:
(a) procedures (eligibility, contracting, disbursement) of the project; (b) contracting



- 102 -
ANNEX G
Page 7 of 14
of the methodological study for the inventory of existing infrastructure and analysis
of unmet demand; (c) technical assistance to be provided to municipalities; and (d)
definition of the common training program. With four meetings annually, with 18
participants and two days per meeting, the total base cost of the group's functioning
would be US$162,000.
4. Municipal Support Units
28.   The SWAs support municipalities through many different units or areas of
their organization. To make this support more effective, it is necessary to bring
about a more organized and strengthened form of assistance.
29.   Obiectives. The MSU in each state, whether formally or informally
structured, would have the following objectives: (a) assist municipalities to
elaborate expedientes tecnicos; (b) provide technical assistance and supervision
necessary in the execution of contracted works; and (c) organize and implement a
program of technical assistance to municipalities for O&M activities.
30.   Stategy. The MSU would be attached to the technical or maintenance
department of the SWA, with responsibilities for: (a) establishing technical
guidelines for the project water supply component and for water supply investments
under the Municipal Funds program; (b) carrying out operational actions to support
the implementation of water supply works. The MSUs would work closely with the
regional units of the SWAs. They would be headed by an experienced engineer,
supported by three to five engineers, depending on the number of municipalities and
number of works to be carried out, and by a social scientist and a secretary. Project
financing for one senior engineer and one social scientist participation specialist
would be provided fbr each MSU, through the SEDESOL strengthening and project
coordination component (see Annex D).
31.   The MSUs would be formed in June 1995, so that in the second part of 1995
they would be able to carry out the activities mentioned above. Project support for
these units would include computer equipment (two computers with software per
state, for a total base cost of approximately US$32,000), and office equipment
(US$40,000, base cost).
32.   The administration, operation and maintenance of municipal water supply
systems is managed by a technician working at the cabecera and local water
committees in each community. In most cases, the technicians and citizens
committees have very little, if any, training to carry out these responsibilities.
33.   Practical courses would therefore be given by the MSU staff to these
individuals, with a projected 250 courses of two-day duration given during the life
of the project. These courses would consist of orientation in physical maintenance
procedures as well as operational controls of water supply systems. These courses
would be conducted in the field, with costs incurred principally for travel related
expenses. Total estimated base cost for the 1,100 person days of training is
US$196,000.



- 103 -
ANNEX G
Page 8 of 14
Attachlnent 1
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Table 1.   Eligibility Criteria
Ob~ss _ampls              ..
Captaci6n superficial        Captaci6n subtearrnea
200                           350
iSubcomponent
Captaci6n superficial        Captaci6n subtenranea
1. CaptacOdn                  15                            105
2. Conduccfdn                 87                            87
3. ReulWacA6                  29                             29
4. Dewinfecddn                12                             12
5. Distribucidn               57                             57
Sum.                      200                           290
* La suma de los valores de los subcomponentes on obras parciales no
es igual que el 1Umite establecido para las obras completas, ya quo se
considero el caso especial de Zacatecas.



- 104 -
ANNEX G
Page 9 of 14
Attachment 1
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Table 2. Institutional Development Program
Rural Water Supply Component
1                       ~~~~~~Costo
Concepto             |   Unidad        Cantidad         total
1. Asesorf Tcnics
(i) Inventario de infreestructura   mes-hombre              54        360,000
y an6lisis de la demande
(ii) Estudios estrat6gicos
(ii.a) Recuperaci6n de Costos       mes-hombre               15       100,000
(ii.b) Alternativas Energ6ticas     mes-hombre              20        130,000
(ii.c) Estudios geohidrol6gicos     mes-hombre              54        360,000
(ii.d) Sistema de lnformaci6n
Gerencial                           me-hombre               40        260,000
Subtotal                                         I            _    1.210,000
2. Capadted6n y DesroUo TenlgoA              -
(i) Capacitaci6n a profesionales        dfas              4,096       676,000
(lil Capacitacion a municipios          d(as             12,000       900,000
(iii) Desarrollo tecnol6gico
Perif6ricos especializedos,             Lot                   8       160,000
software y equipo de trabejo
Subtotal                           _                                1,736,000
3. Grupo Interetstal de Ague Potable
Reuniones de 18 personas              Reuni6n                16       130,000
(16 reuniones de dos d(as)
Varios                                  Lote                  4        32,000
Subtota_                                                              162,000
4. Uniddes de Apoyo Municipal
Computadoras                           Equipo                16        32,000
Equipo de oficina                       Lote                  1        40,000
Entrenamiento t6cnicos municip.         dias              1,100       196,000
Subtotal                                                              268,000
Total (US*)                                                        3,376,000
Total gUS$                                                         3,400.000



MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Tabe 3. Profeessonal Trankig Progmm
Rural Water Supply Component
Ton.                  Perognd        No. de        Dunmon          Totol        VlAboo          Violes        Costo       Honorario     TOTAL
c-pooibtdo      aU                                                              *       v,          C pea-do  copodo.    copooltodog  ,1mjoo  Copocltodo,r  Us$
1. Ing.nlefaflnrnpoo  Abl tk  i
Shotemoo njrj do A.P.                  10             4             2             128          8.980           64           16,000        2,000         26H960
Hidr4ulica do tubed..                  16             4             6             320          22i400          64           16,000 6000                43.400
DieoAc do rodeo                        16             4             6             320          22,400          84           18,000        6.000        43,400
Analels AmblentMl                      18             4             2             128          8,980           64           16,000        2,000         268960
Presupuestcio6n                        le             4             2             128          8.980           64           16.000        2.000        26,960
Eboboracln do exp. t6cnicoo           16             4             1             64           4.480           64           16,000        1,000         21,480
Qooh*droogla biics                     18             4             S             320          22 400          64           18H000        5.000        43.4 00
DioeAo de bomb..                       16             4             3             192          13,440          64           16.000        3,000         32.440
Mmcromodlcldn                          16             4             2             128          8,980           64           16,000        2,000         2H,960
144           38             27           1,728         120,980         676          144,000       27,000       291,960
2. Oprmcl6n y MamtonAminto
Manunle de opol6n                      8             4              1             32           2.240           32           8,000         1,000         11,240           0
Costoc do oporecion                    8              4             2             84           4.480           32           8,000         2,000         14,480           Lu
Manuaoe do martoirrlento               6              4             1             32           2.240           32           8.000         1,000         11.240
Costoo do mantorglmldnto               8              4             2             64           4.480           32           8.000         2,000         14,460
Contcbl4dod belso                      8              4             2             64           4,480           32           8,000         2.000         14,480
S. h,fomrlan                          40             20             a             266          17,920          180          40,000        8,000         65,920
Shtomo operotivo
DisoAo computwLt do ICADI              18             4             6             320          22.400          84           16.000        6.000         43.400
DiosAo do redo                         18             4             S             320          22,400          64           18,000        6,000         43,400
Holes do cMoulo                        16             4             S             320          22.400          64           18.000       65000          43,400
Slatemmo do informocion                l6             4             2             128          8,980           64           18,000        2.000         26.960
Baseo do dato.                         16             4             S             320          22,400          64           16,000        6,000         43,400
4. Eoonenia                            so            20             22           1,408         98,.00          320          80,000        22,000       200,660
Concopto. do *et.d'tlca                1l             4             5             320          22,400          64           16.000        5,000         43,400
Economlo b6mica                        18             4             3             192          13.440          04           16,000        3,000         32.440
Evalusci6n                             16             4             2             128          8,980           64           16,000        2,000         2689(00
46            12             10            640          44,800          192          48,000        10,000       102,800
S. Supsftoldn d obm                    8              4             2             64           4.4S0           32           8,000         2,000         14.480
TOTAL                                 320            92             1            4,091        286,720         1,280        320,000        a9,ooo       676,720
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~



- 106 -
ANNEX G
Page 11 of 14
Attachment II
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Component
Summary Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
I. Methodology and Piloting of Inventory of
Hydraulic Infrastructure and Analysis of Demand
1.    Backgund. The lack of attention to rural communities by the water
agencies, in comparison to the attention given urban areas, is due to the short time
of operation of the state agencies and to the lack of planning for the sector. While
these rural systems do not commonly require large or complicated engineering
solutions, the lack of Inowledge of the current condition of infrastructure, the
unsatisfied demands and the resources needed to resolve the problems prevent
systematic planning needed to bring about the works required to address the needs of
these rural communities.
2.    Objectives. The objectives of the study are to: (a) establish the
methodology (strategy, field procedures, formats, organization and analysis of
information, etc.) to inventory the existing hydraulic infrastructure; and (b) to
analyze the unmet demand for water supply in rural communities.
3.    Achievements. The consultant will be responsible for: (a) defining the
strategy and methodology for carrying out the inventory of existing hydraulic
infrastructure and analysis of unmet demand; (b) designing the formats for the
information gathering in the field; (c) establishing the number and selecting the
localities to be included in the sample in order to pilot the methodology and have it
be representative of the total; (d) implementing the methodology in the selected
localities; (e) designing the processing of the information; and (f) sharing the results
obtained with the eight SWAs.
4.    Products. The study will provide:
(a)    A procedural manual for inventorying water supply infrastructure,
which includes processing in the field and in the office, formats for
gathering information, and procedures for analyzing information and
deriving recommendations from the study;
(b)    The computer system for storing (data base) and processing
(programs) the information of the inventory, with its operational
mranual;
(c)    The procedural manual for procuring information about the unmet
demand for water supply, including the process of identification of
demand, the field and office methodology, the formats for gathering
information, the procedures for analyzing information for evaluation



- 107 -
ANNEX G
Page 12 of 14
Attachment II
of potential works (at the level of pre-feasibility) and for deriving
recommendations; and
(d)    The computer system for conducting an economic analysis of the
demands, with its operational manual.
5.     The cost of the technical assistance for conducting this study is
approximately US$360,000, considering the application of the mefhodology in 50
localities for the inventory and 50 localities for the study of unmet demand, which
implies a need for a total of 54 person-months. The technical assistance providers
will also be responsible for transferring the methodology to individuals responsible
for planning and operations in the water agencies in the eight states.
II. Other Strategic Studies
6.    The themes and structure of the terms of reference of these strategic studies
are defined below:
(a)    Cost Recovery
Background. The majority of rural localities between 500 and 5,000
do not know the costs of O&M and do not have the economic
resources to cover these necessities, resulting in water supply
infrastructure which is partially or totally inoperative. The SWAs
also do not have a precise understanding of costs of O&M and do
not have a method for determining how cost recovery should occur
in these localities.
Objective. This study will: (a) analyze and define the procedures
to categorize, from a technical and economic point of view, rural
water supply systems; (b) evaluate the cost of O&M in typical
systems; and (c) develop a methodology and recommendations for
cost recovery.
Achievements. The consultant will have the following
responsibilities: (a) define the criteria for categorizing water supply
systems, taking into account the technical, geographical an socio-
economic conditions existing in the eight project states; (b) define a
sample of localities to undertake field investigations; (c) gather and
organize field information; (d) evaluate and establish O&M costs;
and (e) propose a methodology for cost recovery.
(b)    Alternate Sources of Energy and Energy Saving
Baclkround. Possibly 75 percent of the operational costs of rural
water supply systems with subterranean sources are due to the cost
of electricity, which often represents a very high cost for people of
scarce resources and one of the reasons for the lack of operation of
these systems. On the other hand, there exist localities where access
to electricity, and even to diesel or gasoline fuels is difficult and/or
there is an extremely high cost associated with them. In addition, it



- 108 -
ANNEX G
Page 13 of 14
Attachment II
is anticipated that the pumping equipment of these kinds of localities
may be inadequate and consume more energy than is required.
Obiectives. This study will: (a) determine the feasibility of
introducing alternate energy (wind and solar) for water pumping; and
(b) analyze a sample of pumping equipment to develop technical and
economic recommendations about them.
Achievements. The consultant will be responsible for the following:
(a) in accordance with the technical requirements of wind and solar
systems and the geographical conditions, clarify the areas within the
eight states where it is feasible to apply these energy alternatives; (b)
determine the investment and O&M costs by capacity level of the
equipment; (c) evaluate the feasibility of alternative energies; (d)
define a sample of localities in each project state to analyze the
characteristics of existing pumps; (e) gather and analyze field data on
the characteristics of pumps; and (f) make recommendations
regarding the above.
(c)    Geohydrological Studies
Backgound. The state of Zacatecas, for its arid characteristic,
makes extensive use of subterranean water sources, both in for
agricultural production and for the provision of water to the
populace. For this reason, numerous geo-hydrological studies have
been conducted in production areas or areas of high population
intensity. These studies are also needed in some areas populated by
rural communities.
Objectives. The objectives of the study are to: (a) analyze the geo-
hydrological potential in areas of rural populations (in a number of
localities); and (b) develop general recommendations for the further
potential use of these studies.
Achievements. The scope of this study will be defined after the
completion of the inventory of existing infrastructure and analysis of
demand.
(d)    Management Information System
Backgrroun. The SWAs are not able to fully adopt the management
role which correspond to their new functions, involving less direct
participation in the construction and operation of water supply
systems. These agencies do not have the information necessary to
monitor their own activities, in terms of basic administration (such
as cash flow, stock inventory, financial status, etc.) and technical
supervision (progress of internal and external studies, maintenance
activities in rural localities).
Objectives. The objectives of the study are to: (a) determine the
basic management indicators relevant to water supply agencies, in



- 109 -
ANNE G
Page 14 of 14
Attachment II
accordance with their primary functions; and (b) develop an
computerized information system to allow managers to follow-up the
activities of the agency.
Achievements. The consultant will be responsible for the following:
(a) analyze the decrees creating the eight SWAs to define the
principal activities of each one; (b) determine the basic indicators
that allow the relevant activities of the agency to be monitored; (c)
develop the information system (software); and (d) train technical
and management personnel in the use of the system.
7.    The estimated base costs of these strategic studies are: (a) strategies of cost
recovery, 15 person-months, approximately US$100,000; (b) analysis of alternate
energies for water pumping, 20 person-months, approximately US$130,000; (c) geo-
hydrological studies, 54 person-months, approximately US$360,000; and (d)
management information systems, 40 person-months, approximately US$260,000.



- 110 -
ANNEX H
Page 1 of 16
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component
I. Background
A. The Road Network
1.    Network Length and Classification. The road network of the eight states
has a total length of approximately 91,800 km; of which 51,700 km are federal,
29,500 km fall under states' jurisdiction, and 10,600 have no legal status. The rural
road network excluding the tracks (7,300 km) is 56,800 km of which about 34,240
(60%) are federal, 17,300 km (30%) are under state jurisdiction and 5,260 (10%)
have no status (Table 1). The rural road network is in very poor condition because
it has suffered the greatest neglect and lack of rehabilitation and maintenance
activities. This suggest that stronger emphasis needs to be placed upon the
rehabilitation and maintenance of the rural road network.
B. Rehabilitation and Maintenance Strategy
2.    The rehabilitation strategy would focus on type E (single lane, unpaved)
rural roads with some exception for type D (alimentadora) roads. The criteria for
prioritizing would be the density of population per km of road, taking into account a
band 5 km wide on either side of the road. Roads need to be rehabilitated at
minimal cost if the maximum rural population is to be served with limited
investment resources. Therefore, works would be limited to elimination of critical
sections (spot improvement). To obtain long term benefits, spot improvements
would be followed by an effective road maintenance organization that would carry
out routine maintenance actions based on contracted peones camuneros working part
time under the authority of the municipality and with the supervision of the SRAs.
The federal rural roads rehabilitated under the project would be transferred to
states's authorities to further the process of decentralization of the rural road
network. Annual targets of the component are identified in SAR Annex C.
C. SRAs, Organization, Management and Personnel
3.    The organization of the SRAs is very different from state to state. The
states are in the process of consolidating their own road agencies created in the late
eighties and early nineties. Due to the predominantly engineering background of
their staff and the traditional political priority given to new construction, the SRAs
are structured to carry out new construction by force account. The eight SRAs have
2,700 employees, of which 269 (10%) are engineers working either at headquarters
where they carry out essentially administrative functions or in field offices (average
of eight field offices per state) where they are in charge of construction and
maintenance activities. Staff's average age is young: 37 years. Only a fraction of
the personnel is unionized with security of employment; the professional group
suffers periodic turnovers. Existing efficiency ratios are quite low; as an average



- 111. -
ANNEX H
Page 2 ot 16
for the eight states, there is one engineer for 143 km of road. The trarsfer of the
whole federal rural road network to the state network would increase this ratio to a
still reasonable 240 km/engineer. The current annual average budget expenditure is
US$32,000/staff, and the average salary cost is US$5,000/staff year.
4.    In assessing the capabilities of the SRAs to effectively prepare plans, execute
or supervise rehabilitation and maintenance activities, a number of common features
or deficiencies have been identified:
(a)    SRAs do not have any training programs to increase and update
professional staffs technical capability and knowledge to the level
required for an efficient management of rehabilitation and
maintenance programs and activities. Most staff experience is
related to new construction activities, rather than to road
rehabilitation and maintenance.
(b)    Planning and prioritization of road construction or maintenance
program are made on an ad-hoc and short term basis, relying upon
subjective and qualitative assessment. Proper road condition
surveys, using standardized and objective procedures are not carried
out at any network level. A simple network information system for
rational planning purposes is urgently needed which would comprise
a data base on road inventory.
(c)    No decision-support system exists to process and analyze the data in
order to define current or forecast future needs in accordance with
appropriate criteria. Provision must be made to strengthen the
capacity of the SRAs in implementing simple but effective
methodologies for identifying well justified projects and for defining
priorities under budgetary constraints.
5.     The aforementioned deficiencies and issues need to be addressed. The
technical assistance and training programs have been designed for this purpose.
I. The Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
6.    The rural roads component consists of three subcomponents: (a) rural roads
rehabilitation (spot improvement); (b) routine maintenance (peon caminero); and (c)
institutional development.
A. Rural Roads Rehabilitation Program
7.    Planning. The SRAs prepared a listing of about 1,921 most important rural
road links totalling 22,583 km. The road links were ranked by region and by
decreasing density ratio (beneficiarieslkm). The Lorentz curve based on the density
ratio shows a distribution such that to 10 percent, 30 percent and 70 percent of the
network (in kIm) correspond to 30 percent, 60 percent and 90 percent, respectively,
of the beneficiaries. The funds available for the spot improvement subcomponent
will attend about 70 percent (in km) of the identified demand, corresponding
therefore to about 90 percent of the identified population. However, the spot
improvement program estimated to approximately 15,600 km will attend only 30
percent of the existing rural network in the eight states that totals 53,000 kan (Table 2).



- 112 -
ANNEX H
Page 3 of 16
8.    Programming/budgeting of the annual spot improvement program would be
based on the following approach: (a) within each state, the distribution of funds
would be proportional to the rural population of each region; (b) within each region
a tentative annual work program (POA) would be derived from the ratio of
population per km which would be the prioritization parameter; (c) reviewing the
consistency of the POA would be carried out considering bidding constraints and
some limited special aspects linked to productive areas; and (d) the final program
would be defined after implementation of the road inventory of the critical sections
and the cost evaluation of the works in order to fit the budgetary constraints.
9.    Engineering would be based on the agreed preliminary guidelines for spot
improvement. The guidelines concentrate on eliminating drainage problems and
intends to reduce formal design activities to reflect the reduced cost of appropriate
construction technology. Rural road engineering would become basically a field
evaluation activity to avoid having engineering cost reach an unacceptable proportion
of total cost. Engineering would be carried out by force account and by contract; in
this last case cost is estimated not to be higher than 3 percent of works. The
technical TORs for engineering would be the technical guidelines for spot
improvement. A data sheet (cedulas) agreed during preparation presenting the
synthesis of the engineering data would be prepared by state SEDESOL delegations
for each work. The SEDESOL delegation would analyze the physical and financial
indicators derived from the data sheets and would review the eligibility criteria
before commitment (aprobaci6n) of the funds for the spot improvement program.
10.   Bidding Plan. The SRAs would prepare annually a bidding plan to
implement the spot improvement program. The bidding plan would aim to share the
implementation of works between Solidarity Committees and the local construction
industry. The MSU would be in charge of the preparation of the convenios between
the SRA and the Solidarity Committees/municipalities and of the technical assistance
and supervision of labor intensive works carried out by the committees. Agreed
models of convenios are included in the Project Operational Manual. It is tentatively
estimated that about 30 convenios would be implemented annually in each state,
totalling about 950 convenios and US$34 million during the life of the project.
Mechanized works would be carried out by the local contracting industry. It is
estimated that about 8 contracts (one per region) would be signed annually in each
state, totalling about 260 contracts and US$82.2 million. The average contract
would be about US$315,000.
11.   Targets, Costs, Indicators. The spot improvement program would improve
the condition of about 15,600 km of rural road for a base cost of US$109 million
including US$3.1 million for engineering. The average cost per km has been
estimated to US$7,000 broken down into 20 percent for earthworks (elimination of
landslides, erosions, grading), 44 percent for drainage works, 10 percent for
bridges, 23 percent for spot regraveling and 3 percent for engineering. The direct
beneficiaries would be the population living in the direct area of influence of the
roads, estimated to be about 4 million. The pace of implementation has been
estimated in a conservative manner to consider the startina and learning difficulties.
The annual progress has been tentatively estimated to 15 percent, 25 percent, 40
percent and 20 percent per year over the 4-year period (Table 2). Since the costs
have been estimated in a conservative manner, final targets may be higher than
expected; therefore it has been agreed that the initial list of candidates roads could
be increased by 30 percent in kilometers.



- 113 -
ANNEX H
Page 4 of 16
12.   Eligibility. The conditions of eligibility for Bank financing of the spot
improvement program are summarized as follows: (a) must be unpaved type E
(single lane) rural roads or type F (tracks) with exception that up to 10 percent in
km of unpaved type D rural roads (double lane) would be eligible; (b) selected roads
must belong to the listing presented by the states and named listing of 'candidate
roads," with a maximum increase of 30 percent in length of this listing allowed for
unforeseen situations; and (c) with a maximum average cost of spot improvement
would limited to the equivalent of US$15,000/km (average cost means: cQst of
rehabilitation / length of grading of the considered road link).
B. Routine Maintenance Program
13.   Organization of Routine Maintenance. The existing condition of rural
roads is such that they have deteriorated so much that they are beyond the point of
organized maintenance. Spot improvement of critical sections is compulsory before
starting routine maintenance. The project would finance routine maintenance
contracted to individuals by municipalities under the supervision of the SRAs for the
roads rehabilitated under the spot improvement program. The MSUs will prepare an
action plan to: (a) discuss and agree with the municipalities on the principle of
contractingpeones camineros financed by the project; (b) determine working
sections whose lengths will be a function of the routine maintenance difficulties (it is
estimated that an average length would be about 2 Ikm on a half time basis, or 4 km
on a full time basis); (c) make sure that the density or distribution of population is
such that the commuting distance would be feasible and no longer than about one
hour walking distance; (d) assign a promoter of the SRA to be responsible for the
management of the routine maintenance; (e) prepare the purchase and delivery of the
tools; (f) contract and train the peon caminero; and (g) supervise and provide timely
payment of the peon by the municipality. The responsibilities and function of the
SRAs to handle the routine maintenance program are presented in the operational
manual.
14.   Cost and Targets. The cost of employment of a peon caminero has been
tentatively estimated to about US$2,000 per year to carry out routine maintenance
on a section of 4 km on a full time basis, corresponding to a cost per km of
US$5001km/year C(able 3). When purchase of hand tools and hauling of some
gravel material are considered, the routine maintenance cost would be close to
US$600/km/year. Routine maintenance would start at the beginning of year 2 on
the road links rehabilitated during year 1. The final targets are estimated to 21,100
km of routine maintenance carried out on a 12,500 kan long rural road network over
a three year period for a total cost of US$13 million. The amount of distributed
salaries would be about US$10.2 million to be shared between 10,550 contracts.
C. Institutional Development Program
1. The Technical Assistance Program
15.   Introduction. Technical assistance is to be provided under the proposed
project, to strengthen the capacities of the SRA, and in particular their maintenance
divisions, in establishing more adequate engineering and planning structures. The
emphasis is to be placed upon (a) developing engineering expertise in evaluation,
diagnosis and recommendations for spot improvement works and (b) upon
developing an information and monitoring system of the rural road network. Draft



- 114 -
ANNEX H
Page 5 of 16
developing an information and monitoring system of the rural road network. Draft
TORs for these activities can be found in Working Paper No. 4, Rural Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance.
16.   Outline of Terms of Reference. The consultants' responsibilities are to
(a)    Update the guidelines for spot improvement and supply technical
assistance to approximately 60 field engineers and 120,technicians of
the SRAs over an eight-month period. The guidelines would
include: (i) a detailed methodology for identifying critical sections,
to carry out road inventory, to fill inventory sheets; (ii) a
methodology to diagnose the causes of degradation; (iii) a simplified
method to quantify the volumes of works; (iv) simplified
specifications for works; (v) model of bill of quantities, procedure of
measurement to remunerate the contractors; (vi) set of typical
drawings; and (vii) revision of the technical aspects of the
bidding/contracting documentation. The technical assistance would
be delivered on-the-job on sections of rural roads, using the
guidelines with the objective of establishing a specific spot
improvement file.
(b)    Design over a 32-month period an information and monitoring
system for the maintenance of the rural road network of the eight
states and to start its implementation on a sample of about 160 roads
totaling about 1,600 km (20 roads and 200 km per state), and to
deliver technical assistance to the SRAs to use the system in order to
implement it on the whole network later on. The technical assistance
would be delivered to the 60 engineers and 120 technicians
mentioned in (i) above and to about 24 data base technicians (3 per
state).
17.   The products of the consultancy would be:
(a)    A revised manual for spot improvement;
(b)    A set of eight spot improvement files in line with the revised
guidelines carried out by the eight SRAs assisted by the consultants;
(c)    A simple catalogue of degradations of rural roads with the
corresponding methodology to use the catalogue; the methodology
would present the inspection methods, the measurement methods, the
criteria to record the extent and severity of the degradations and the
decision grid to correct the degradations. Bridges would be
excluded from the catalogue;
(d)    A working methodology to carry out the road condition survey (to
assess the general condition and to identify the sections that would
deserve detailed inspection) and the detailed visual inspection;
(e)    A set of eight files corresponding to the implementation of the
methodology in the eight states of 200 km of road condition survey
on about 20 roads;



- 1 15 -
ANNEX H
Page 6 ot 16
(fj    A set of eight files corresponding to the implementation of the
methodology in the eight state of the detailed visulI inspection
corresponding to the output of (e);
(g)    Establishment of a data base to be installed in the eight states to
store and process the data. Typical formats extracted from the data
base would be filled using the information collected under (e) and (f)
using the decision grid mentioned in (a); and     4
(h)    A plan of action to have the involved states to continue the road
inventory on their rural road network, to feed the data base and to
derive a tentative maintenance plan.
18.    At each stage of the technical assistance, the consultants will train their
counterparts: the 60 district engineers, the 120 road inspectors and the 24 data base
specialists. The consultants would install eight computers and peripherals and
related software corresponding to the data base. They would also install 16 video
equipment systems if video technique is to be used for road inventory and 16 global
positioning systems to locate villages, bridges, gravel pits, water supply sources etc.
The total amount of technical assistance is estimated to about 87 person-months to
work over a 40 month period (Table 4).
2. The Training Program
19.   Introduction. All SRAs present almost the same deficiencies in their ability
to effectively prepare, plan and implement a comprehensive program of road
maintenance and rehabilitation. For the most part, and in view of the emphasis
placed so far upon network expansion and upgrading, their expertise covers mainly
new road construction and paving, and little attention has been paid to planning and
implementation of road maintenance programs. In addition, few opportunities have
been made available to staff for training, and because of rather low budgets, many
young engineers have never had a chance to use their skill. This demands that some
in-service training initiative be undertaken in order to upgrade their professional
skills.
20.    Objectives. The major objectives of the training program are to:
(a)    Strengthen the performance capabilities of the SRAs' professional
personnel, particularly in the planning of their rural road
maintenance management, placing major emphasis upon: (i)
adequate network condition monitoring; (ii) design of appropriate
standards, best suited to the states' specificities; and (iii) effective
planning, budgeting and prioritizing procedures, using modern
approaches and models. The next step for a future project would be
to focus on the efficient implementation of maintenance activities,
involving a suitable mix of force-account and private sector
participation. In order to avoid to overload the absorptive capacity
of the staff, the training on the implementation aspects of road
maintenance would be limited to a minimum.
(b)    Motivate personnel and create opportunities for career development
through enhanced professional skill and abilities.



- 116 -
ANNEX H
Page 7 ot 16
(c)    Complement the actions and services otherwise provided by the
technical assistance program whose duration is shorter, thus enabling
the SRAs to reduce their dependency upon external consultancy, in
their performance of their essential functions of planning and
monitoring.
21.   Description of the Training Program. Four subject areas have been
selected in which training is required: (a) basic engineering, including'
administration and management; (b) road maintenance including computer and
information systems; (c) environmental analysis and mitigation of impact; and (d)
basic economics including notion of statistics and feasibility. Each training subject
comprise between two and six modules which cover the essential parts of the topic
concerned, as listed below.
Area I - Engineering and Management: (1) traffic engineering, (2)
pavement design, (3) hydrology and hydraulics, (4) design of
specifications, of contracts, (5) notion of control and supervision.
Area II - Maintenance: (1) concept of system, model and simulation, (2)
concept of data bank, use of computer for word and data processing,
(3) concept of monitoring, (4) concept of geographic information
system, (5) review of maintenance systems, (6) analytical
accounting.
Area mII - Environment: (1) legal and theoretical aspects on transport and
environment, (2) review of general specifications for road works,
internalizing the enviromment as a variable, (3) specific courses on
erosion control.
Area IV - Economics: (1) basic statistics, (2) basic economics, (3) concept
of feasibility, (4) basics of transport economics, (5) concept of
evaluation, and (6) strategy for construction of rural road network.
22.   Characteristics and Targets. Each module has been scheduled to have a 16
to 40 hours duration, depending on subject complexity, and the average number of
trainees per course will range between 8 and 32, this being a function of the type of
profile to be addressed and the number of candidates having this profile. To ensure
adequate coordination of the action plan and achieve cost effectiveness, the eight
states through the ITG and SEDESOL will be responsible for planning, preparing,
organizing, and monitoring the training program. Altogether, the training targets
expressed in terms of trainees-days, will be about 4,200 for about 368 staff. The
total estimated cost would be about US$790,000 corresponding to
US$25,000/state/year with a cost of US$2,150 per trainee (Table 4).
23.   Municipal Training. The technical capability of the municipalities would
be developed through an on-the-job training carried out by the technicians of the
MSU. The training would be carried out during the preparation and the
implementation of spot improvement program and the routine maintenance program.
In addition to the field training, two-day seminars twice a year (before and after the
spot improvement works) would be carried out by groups of about 15 municipal
foremen representing 15 municipalities. It is estimated that the technical
representatives of about 500 municipalities would get training on road works twice a



- 117 -
ANNEX H
Page 8 of 16
year. The courses would focus on concrete aspects related with the organization and
logistics of works, estimation of volumes of materials, and some specification
aspects related to quality. The total estimated cost would be about USS600,000
corresponding to US$300/municipality/year (Table 4).
3. Interstate Technical Group (ITG)
24.   Objectives. The SRAs are young institutions with no contacts with other
states. Therefore the Rural Roads ITG would: (a). help to exchange information
between the road agencies to help them to make decision and to better address their
institutional and technical issues; and (b) become an instrument of communication
and feedback between the SRAs and SEDESOL.
25.   Strategy. The strategy to establish and organize the ITG would be in a first
stage flexible and informal, to later on progressively become structured to become
more effective. The initial leading role of SEDESOL would aim to get the
designation of the heads of the SRAs as representative of their states. In a second
phase SEDESOL would suggest the Group to develop a stronger organization,
including agreed procedures and working mechanisms that would be established
within one year.
26.   Agenda. It is likely that the ITG will not generate outputs during its first
year of life. The teams would meet in principle four times a year in different host
states and would have a fluid relationship. In addition to its own internal
organization the first agenda of the ITG would focus on: (a) project procedures:
eligibility, procurement, disbursement, monitoring; (b) organization to receive the
technical assistance for establishing the road information system; and (c)
organization of the support to the municipalities (spot improvement, peon caminero,
training program). The project would support the activities of the ITG through the
financing of the expenditures of the meetings, estimated to cost about US$162,000
for 16 meetings of two days duration (Table 4).
4. Municipal Support Units (MSUs)
27.   Objectives. The MSUs to be established within each SRA under the
responsibility of the maintenance division chief would assist the municipalities to
participate in the implementation of the rural road component and, in particular, in:
(a) the spot improvement drainage works when carried out by Solidarity
Committees; and (b) maintenance works carried out by peones camineros. The
MSU would also assist whenever possible the municipality to improve their
engineering design (expediente tecnicos) related to the Municipal Funds program in
civil works matters such as street paving, small bridge construction, ford
construction, and track and rural road rehabilitation and to better organize their civil
works activities by delivering a training program for responsible municipal staff.
28.   Strategy. The SRAs are poorly prepared to assist municipalities; therefore,
SEDESOL and the state govermments would carry out a sensibilization campaign to
establish MSUs on a formal or informal basis. The MSU would be headed by an
experienced civil engineer assisted by about five technicians (promotores) a social
scientist, and a secretary. Field office staff would be instructed to work in close
coordination with the MSU.



- 118 -
ANNEX H
Page 9 of 16
29.   Agenda. The MSU would actively participate in the organization of the spot
improvement program during year 1 of the project and prepare the organization and
logistics for the routine maintenance program to be started year 2 of the project.
The MSU would prepare and deliver the training program of the personnel of the
municipalities. The MSU would also be a key recipient of the contracted technical
assistance program. The project would finance about US$127,000 to procure office
equipment and about 740 person-days of training activities to be carried out by the
MSU (Table 4).
III. Organizational Arrangements, Project Indicators and Targets
30.   Organizational Arrangements. Within the PCU, an appropriately staffed
rural roads sub-unit would be established and maintained. This sub-unit would be
headed by a qualified senior Highway Engineer experienced with at least 10 years of
experience in operational responsibilities in road and network management. The
senior Engineer would be assisted by two road engineers with substantial field
experience (at least 5 years) in road maintenance and construction with some
computer skill. The central rural road sub-unit would be responsible for: (a) the
normative aspects of the road component; (b) the assistance and animation of the
ITG, and for the assistance to the MSUs; (c) the contracting and supervision of the
technical assistance, studies, training programs, seminars; and (d) operational
aspects: review of the POA, review of the data sheets to compare states' proposals
and to present global analysis and recommendations, monitoring and reporting of the
rural roads component, including review of the tableros de desembolso and the
operation of the central data base for roads.
31.   The states' SEDESOL delegations will nominate one senior highway
engineer with substantial experience (at least 5 years) in road management
responsible for all the aspects of the rural roads component in each state. This
engineer will: (a) review the state POA, the eligibility criteria, and will fill-in the
data sheets of approved subprojects; (b) operate and maintain its road data base; (c)
follow up and monitor the implementation of the rural roads component including
the establishment of the documentation for the SOEs; and (d) liaise with the SRA
and the municipalities to facilitate the actions of the MSUs.
32.   Implementation Arrangements. The detailed organizational responsibilities
and arrangements for the implementation of the rural roads component are detailed
in the Project Operational Manual and summarized by Table 5 that lists the key steps
of the implementation schedule of the rural road program.
33.   Indicators and Targets. SEDESOL will monitor the implementation of the
rural road component using: (a) the rural road data base that would supply
commitment and physical data at the time of commitrnent (aprobacion) and
contracting and disbursement data at the time of presentation of the SOE's (tablero
de desembolso); (b) the auditing process; and (c) the supervision process. The rural
roads component implementation and monitoring indicators are presented -in Table 6
and in Annex C.



- 119 -
ANNEX H
Page 10 of 16
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL ROADS COMPONENT
Table 1: Road Network of the eight States
Lcngth (Km)
Function     PAVED       GRAVEL   EARTH   TRACK    TOTAL
A .FEDERAL
Tnmk           Primary            15,918        357        49         0       16,324
Feeder         Secondary            539           0         0         0          539
Rural SCT      Terciary              516      24,771      217         0       25,504
Rural Other    Terciary               92       8,763      488         0        9,343
Sub Total                   17,065      33,891      754        0        51,710
B. STATE
Trunk          Primay              1,496         748       27         0        2,271
Feeder         Seconday            7,766       3,005      334         0       11,105
Rural          Terciary               10      11,648    2,305    2,203        16,166
Sub Total                    9,272      15,401    2,666    2,203        29,542
C. OTHERS
Tnmk           Primay                  0           0        0         0            0
Feeder         Secondary              25         196        2         0          223
Rural          Terciary                5         612    4,647    5,100         10,364
Sub Tota                        30         808    4,649    5,100        10,57
TOTAL                       26,367      50,100    8,069    7,303         91,839
Source: SEDESOLJState
Date : Marh 1994



- 120 -
ANNEX H
Page 11 of 16
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL ROADS COMPONENT
Table 2: Spot Improvement Program
Identified Demand                           tentative *
Spot Improvement program
State    Existing                                  Totj3**                                   esinted
Network 3   No    length        No         eatimated     No    length       No       base cost
Km    of Road    Km       of benef.    cost US$ m   of Road   Km   of benef.       USS m
Chiapas      11,346    312     3,580    1,216,440     25,060,000    204    2,336    1,021,810       16.35
Guerrcro      5,522    301     3,857      685,288      26,999,000    122    1,557     445,437       10.90
Hidalgo       4,510    138     2,300      311,376      16,100,000    75    1,246      242,873        8.72
Michoacan     3,883    390     2,331      604,672      16,317,000    287    1,713     483,738       11.99
O uxA         6,156    144     2,014      441,466      14,098,000    167    2,336     370,831       16.35
Puebla        4,058    154     1,593      420,671      11,151,000    196    2,024     420,671       14.17
Veracuz      10,805    415     4,880    2,176,000      34,160,000    291    3,426    1,980,160      23.98
Zacatecas     6,600    120     2,436      315,335      17,052,000    46      934      201,814        6.54
Total        S2,330  1,974    22,991    6,171,248     160,937,000   1336   15,571    5,167,335     109.00
3 totbl exiwtng gravel and erth nual roads (federal+dsta+other) excluding paved rural roads and trcks
tol estimated cost of spot improvement
3 melected by priority rankdng order, funding proportional to the rual population.
lgnlementaion SchedLde
No       Revisede
Km     USS m   Benefic.   No Benef
199S       2,336   16.35 1,920,000    1,440,000
1996       3,893  27.25  1,607,000    1,205,250
1997       6,229  43.60   962,000      721,500
1998       3,114  21.80   880,575      660,431
Tota 15,571  109.00 5,167,335    4,027,181
* a 25% redction coefficient has been applied to the number of beneficiaries to consider
that planning would be made at Regional level.
Source: Mission Estmt
Date: March 1994



- 121 -
ANNEX H
Page 12 of 16
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL ROADS COMPONENT
Table 3: Routine Maintenance Progran
Typical Routine Maintenance Cost
Year        Spot                    Total       half time                    (for 4 km per year)
Improv.     Rouine        Base       contiaca       Cost               Life   Annual        %
Program      Maint.       Cost         peon         Category    Cost period   Cost          of
Km         Km           USS        caninero                   USS   Yeas    USS    total cost
l995         2,336                                             Tools         90      1        90       3.61
1996         3,893        2,336    1,401,429       1,168       Gravel"      400      1       400      16.06
1997         6,306        6,229    3,737,143       3,114       Labour      2000      1      2,000     80.32
1998         3,114       12,535    7,521,000       6,268
danua cost 4 Km a year       2,490    100.00
Totl        15,649       21,099   12,659,571       10,550      annual cost: 1 Km/Year:        623
Note:   rounded                    12,000,000
of which:                                             rounded to USS/Kmlyear.        600
goods                       457,575
civi worksb                2,033,66C                  * Sine works would be carried out on a hail
labour                    10,168,330                  -m  basis each peon woud be conwacted
hied peona:                   6,268                   to cary out 2 Km for USS1,000
gravel mnaials for patching 4 Km
Source :Miasion Estimate
Date : Februazy 1994



- 122 -
ANNEX H
Page 13 of 16
EXCO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads Component
Table 4: Institutional Development Program
Total
cost
I. Consulting services                            Unit        Quantity       US$
A. Spot Improvement Study                  Staff month             21        315,000
B. Inform/Monit. system                    Staff month             66       1,140,000
camera video                                   Unit               8          10,400
Computers/periphericalUsoftware                Unit               8          80,000
Global positioning systems                     Unit              16          24,000
Subtotal                                 1,569,400
II. Interstate Working Group
meetings of 18 persons                       meetings            16         130,000
(16 meetings, 2 days each)
miscelaneous                                   lots               4          32,000
Subtotal                                  162,000
mI. State Units (muncipal support)
computers/software                             unit              16          32,000
office equipment                               lots               1          40,000
municipal technicians (trainers)               days             740          55,000
Subtotal                                  127,000
IV. Training (costs associated to trainee)
A. Spot Improvement (field training)
60 district engineers                        days             1800        126,000
120 road inspectors                           days            3600         252,000
B. Infor.lMonit. system
24 data bank specialists                       days            1080         75,600
C. Training Municipal Agents
500 municipal works directors                  days            8000         600,000
D. Courses for Professionals
370 High level staff
fees of trainers for 84 coures               staffdays          230          60,000
cost for about 370 trainees                   affdays          4200         660,000
miscellaneous                                  lots               1          70,000
Subtotal                                 1,843,600
Total Services (US$ equivalent)                                              3,702,000
Total Services (US$ equivalent) rounded                                      3,700,000



- 123 -
ANNEX H
Page 14 of 16
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads Component
Table 5: Organizational Arrangements
STEPS          WHO                 DOES            WHAT                HOW               WHEN
I            State              prepare       Expedientes       based on ranked        July
Highway agency         50% of          Tecnicos     priority, using environ-
mental checklist
2            State             proposes           POA           based on budget       August
Highway agency         presents                           expectations
3           Coplade             reviews           POA            based on ste        September
priorities
4        State Sedesol          analyses          POA           baed on agraed       September
authorizes                       norms and budget
5            StaSte            carly out       Expedientes      based on agreed       October
Highway agency          100%           Tecnicos            guidelines       November
6           Coplade             reviews         proposals        based on stae       December
regutions
7         State Sedesol        approves         proposals       basd on agreed       December
norms and budget      January
agre
8        Sedesol Central     acknowledge.       proposals       based on agreed      December
aggregates                       norms and budgd       January
9         World Bank            revises        data sheets                           December
gives the no   monit. indica.      loan agreemet        January
objection to      program
10            State            completes         bidding        agreed guidelines      January
Highway agency         update.          plan of
action



- 124 -
ANNEX H
Page 15 of 16
MEXCO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads Component
Table 5: Organizational Arrangements
STEPS           WHO                 DOES            WHAT                 HOW              WHEN
bids,
11            State             analyses         contracts         agreed models     Febnaury
Highway agency          awards         convenios
contracts
12          Coplade              updates          budgets        internal procedure
registers     commitments          on data bank     Febmary
comments
13        State Sedesol          updates       commitments          on data bank     Febnuary
registers
comments
14       Sadesol Central         update        commitments          on data bank     Febnuary
registers
agregates
15            state             supervises       contracts         field districts    March to
Highway agency          assists        municipal.                           July
16        State Sedesol          gathers        preliminary                           Feb- Dec
Sedesol Central        checks            SOE'S             data bank
17        World Bank             checks          eligibility         data bank        Feb- Dec
compares       monit indic.
18       Sedesol Central           ends           NAFIN            eligib. SOE's      Feb- Dec
19           NAFIN               registers       Disburs.           agreed norms      Feb- Dec
checks        Application
process
20         World Bank            registers      Application         intenal  les      Feb- Dec
checks      elig. categ.etc
process       disbursement
informs         NAFIN



- 125 -
ANNEX H
Page 16 of 16
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Roads Component
Table 6: Implementation Monitoring Indicators
Program/Objectives           Indicators           Unit      1995      1996       1997      199f       Total
1. Spot Improvmet            Grading             KM        2,300     3,900      6,300     3,100     15,600
No beneficiaries      million     1.4       1.2        0.7       0.7        4
No of Roads           U         230       390        630       310       1560
2. Rouwe Maintenance       length maintained       Km                 2,300      6,200     12,500    21,000
No of maint. convenio      U                  1,150     3,100     6,250     10,500
3. 1usiwt. Devdopnt
Spot Imvement           updatd guddinem          U          1                                         1
(Technical Amistane)      State. with lydem        No         1         4          3                    8
Information System          Dat ban               U          1                                         1
(Tecnical A   _itano)    State' inform.uyudem      No                    3         3         2          8
road inventoe          Km                   600       600        400      1,600
Training           taine. state agenci.    tmi.days    1,000     3,000     4,000      2,900     10,900
ainee muincipai.      trai.days             2,000      4,000     2,000      8,000
4. rr               No. of meetinp           U          4         4          4         4         16
5M.onitwing        No visit to Statefield      U         8          8         8          8         32
by PCU/Cener         No subprojecs viitd        U         24         24        24        24         96
No. monitoring reports     U          2         2          2         2         8
6. MSU             Active Putiomng in         U         8          8         8          8
each state



- 126 -                     ANNEXI
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
Income-Generating Component
I. Background
1.    The investment component of the first DRD project allocated resources for
subprojects in agriculture, forestry and agroindustry as a strategy for alleviating
poverty in the four poorest states. The project financed productive activities through
a matching grant mechanism between federal and state sources and contributions
from beneficiaries. There were a number of problems encountered during the
implementation of the productive subcomponent. Productive subprojects were
administered by a range of national and state organizations, many of which did not
demonstrate the institutional capacity to identify, appraise, implement, or monitor
and evaluate these activities. The number of organizations involved, combined with
a lack of appropriate institutional capacity and incentives, led to discrete investments
without an integrated project approach and little or no financial analysis or follow-up
and monitoring during implementation. Moreover, implementing agencies generally
utilized a top-down approach, with limited involvement of producers. As a result of
these deficiencies, income-generating investments have accounted thus far for only
five percent of the disbursements of the first DRD project, compared with the
original allocation of 30 percent.
2.    Despite the disappointing performance in the first DRD project, a small,
pilot income-generating component in the Second DRD is justifiable based on the
opportunity to learn from the lessons of the first project, and the pressing need for
economic stimulus and credit alternatives in rural areas, a need made all the more
acute by the agriculture sector adjustments that have taken place as a consequence of
NAFTA.
3.    Currently, several strategies are being developed and piloted within the
Solidarity program to respond to rural investment demands in ways that avoid the
problems of past programs. These strategies include: (a) investment risk capital
provided producer groups with viable proposals through FONAES; (b) establishment
of producer-managed savings and loan associations (cajs de Solidaridad, managed
by FONAES, and the FRS of INI); (c) investments in small income-generating
projects through Municipal Funds; and (d) innovative approaches by state agriculture
and rural development agencies, often involving producers' associations and other
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Each of these efforts, however, are being
reviewed in light of the upcoming transition in the federal administration, and it is
unclear which strategies will continue to receive support under what conditions in
the new administration. For that reason, the definition of the project's income-
generating component will not be finalized until early 1996.



- 127 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 2
II. Income-Generating Component
4.    The income-generating component would finance the development and
implementation of pilot income-generating investment strategies under the National
Solidarity Program. The objectives of the component are: (a) to increase
productive potential and generate income in poor rural areas by supporting
financially viable projects developed by producer groups; and (b) to develop the
capacity of producer organizations to plan and manage productive investments and
related technical assistance.
5.    As it is now conceptualized, the component would consist of two
subcomponents: (a) technical assistance, training and investment to pilot improved
approaches to agriculture investment by state-level agencies, especially in partnership
with local producers' organizations; and (b) technical assistance and training to
strengthen the identification and development of income generating subprojects by
communities and municipalities within the Municipal Funds program. In addition,
limited technical assistance support may be provided to other Solidarity efforts,
including FONAES (see Working Paper No. 6) and the FRS.
1.    State-level Agencies (US$8 million)
6.    The project would support a pilot initiative in one or two participating states
to improve the capacity of state-level agriculture agencies to assist producers' groups
in developing and implementing viable income-generating subprojects. This
subcomponent would require considerable changes from the first DRD when the
programming of investments was left open-ended. Support to state agencies would
focus on developing their capacity to: (a) identify priority regions and mechanisms
for targeting resources to poor farmers, and especially to indigenous and women's
groups; (b) develop linkages with local producers' groups who would be active in
the identification and preparation of subprojects and would be responsible for the
procurement of project-financed technical assistance and investment; and (c) more
adequately identify, appraise, and monitor and evaluate the implementation of
income-generating subprojects. Regular supervision of this subcomponent would
allow executing agencies and the Bank to identify weaknesses and positive learning
experiences which can later be applied to other states.
2.    Municipal Funds Program (US$4 ndllion)
7.    The income-generating component would also support technical assistance to
community groups to plan and implement subprojects financed under the Municipal
Funds subcomponent. In the first DRD Project, most of the demand for Municipal
Funds generated by communities focused on social infrastructure as opposed to
income-generating initiatives. This was due in part to lack of technical assistance to
assist community groups in identifying viable productive activities. Nevertheless,
the use of the Municipal Funds as an alternate mechanism for financing productive
elements is worth further developing because of the potential they have to encourage
local initiative and decentralize decision making. The project would finance
technical assistance and training to enhance project planning capacity at the
municipal and local levels and to provide adequate follow-up and technical inputs
during implementation.



- 128 -
ANNEX J
Page 1 of 2
MIEXICO
Second Decentralization and Reaional Development Project
Supervision Plan
1.     The frequency of Bank missions will be guided by the progress and special requirements of
project implementation. This Second DRD project will require less review and assistance than the
first DRD project. Nevetheless, because the project involves more than 24 state agencies and over
1,400 municipalities in 8 different states, most of whom have little knowledge of Bank procedures, it
calls for more intensive review and assistance than is usually the case. In addition, each project
component, including institutional development and investments in Municipal FundslEscuela Digna,
rural water supply, rural roads rehabilitation and maintenance, and income-generating subprojects,
will require very different expertise in supervision activities.
2.     Bank supervision would include the assistance of field supervision by a water supply engineer
located in the Mexico Resident Representative's office, who, in addition to supervising the rural water
supply component, would be responsible for: (a) reviewing subproject eligibility and procurement;
(b) processing of computerized data bank of subprojects; (c) problem resolution and liaison with Task
Manager in headquarters. As shown in the attached table, Bank missions are expected after a Project
Launch Workshop to supervise the project about three times per year until the mid-term review, and
two times per year thereafter. It is estimated that about 306 staff weeks will be required for project
supervision for the duration of the project, with approximately 70 staff weeks required per year. This
would be even higher if not for synergies gained by combining some supervision work of the first
DRD project with the Second DRD project.
.~~~~~       *........                                  ________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ 
11/94           Project Launch mission, including launch  Mun. Dev. Spec./Soc. Sci.   12
workshop for each component,' review of   Water Supply Engineer
terms of reference for financial and      Rural Road Engineer
performance audits                        Procurement Officer
Disbursement Officer
Audit Specialist
02195           Supervision Mission: field visit of 3 states -    Mun. Dev. Spec.lSoc. Sci.   12
review progress, issues, targets indicators -    Rural Road Engineer
Special emphasis on (i) TA aspects for MF,    Water Supply Engineer
and hiring of TA for Rural Road and Water    Agriculturalist
Supply, (ii) on functioning of the monitoring
system, and (iii) pilot income-generating
component
1. Pilot income-generating component to be addressed more fully in 2195 mission.



- 129 -
ANNEX J
Page 2 of 2
Approx. Dtest Key Actibities                              Expected SidU               in 0put
Requirement                 tf
06/95           Supervision Mission - focus on progress with   Mun. Dev. Spec.lSoc. Sci.   12
monitoring system, procurement engagement   Rural Road Engineer
of Consultants and progress on commitments   Water Supply Engiheer
of works. Review of the income-generating    Agriculturalist
component - field visit of 3 states
10195           Supervision Mission review of financial   Mun. Dev. Spec./Soc. Sci.   9
progress, achievements of TA for MF and   Rural Road Engineer
sectoral components- field visit of 2 states  Water Supply Engineer
02/96           First Annual Project Review. Review overall   Mun. Dev. Spec.lSoc. Sci.   12
progress, issues and achievements of the  Rural Road Engineer
1995 program. Update of operational manual   Water Supply Engineer
and indicators. Focus on TA to            Agriculturalist
municipalities, on studies and on the 1996
l ____________    program. Visit of 3 states
09/96           Supervision Mission - Visit of 3 states   Mun. Dev. Spec./Soc. Sci.   9
Rural Road Engineer
Water Supply Engineer
3/97            Mid-Term Project Review and compliance    Mun. Dev. Spec./Soc. Sci.   15
with loan covenants - progress on         Rural Road Engineer
institutional and investment programs,    Water Supply Engineer
updating of the opeational manual, review of  Agriculturalist
the audit findings and 1997 program - visit of  Audit Specialist
3 state
9/97            Supervision Mission                        Mun. Dov. Spec./Soc. Sci.   12
visit to the 4 tes                        Rural Road Enginoer
Water Supply Engineer
Agriculturlist
3/98 & 9/99     2 Supervision Missions                     Mun. Dev. Spec./Soc. Sci.   21
visits to the 8 states                    Rural Road Engineer
Water Supply Engineer
l_____________                                             Agriculturalist
l FY99          Loan Closing/ICR                           Mun. Dev. Spec.lSoc. Sci.   15
Water Supply Engineer
Operation Assistant
SUBTOTAL                                                              129
Long-term consultant in field office      Water Supply Engineer       129
4 yea  x 40 - 160 - (31) - 129
Headquarters activities                   Mun. Dev. Spec./Soc. Sci.   48
Task Manager 12 w x 4 - 48
1994-1999       TOTAL SUPERVISION REQUIREMENT                                         306
Note: Average 70 sw/year for 4 components
- 17.5 SW per component per year



- 130 -
ANNEX K
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements *
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal     Semester      Disbursed    Cumulative Disbursement      Loan
Year         Ending         during                                 Balance
Semester    Amount    % of Total
500
1995         June 95          80**         80            16          420
1996       December 95        43          123           25           377
June 96         48           171           34          329
1997       December 96        58          229           46           271
June 97         58          287            57          213
1998       December 97        71          358            72          142
June 98         76          434            87            66
1999       December 98        46          480            96           20
June 99         20           500          100             0
*     Disbursement schedule has been estimated based on experience with the first DRD
project.
**   Includes initial deposit in the special account of US$40 million.



.



- 131 -
ANNEX L
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Policy Letter
(Translation of Spanish Original)
SECRETARIAT FOR FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC CREDIT
Mexico, D.F., April 15, 1994
Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
Since the beginning of the present Administration, the Mexican
Government has been developing a vigorous policy addressing extreme poverty, a
policy which is implemented primarily through the National Solidarity Program.
Through this Program, a notable change has been made in the strategies
and dynamics in the fight against poverty previously followed in the country.
The growth of Solidarity has occurred in the context of the profound
transformations that have taken place in Mexico, to provide responses to the new
circumstances of national development; these changes have implied among other
actions, the withdrawal of the State from non-priority areas in order to strengthen its
functions in other areas which have become high priority as part of its new role
within the development of the country.
Social policy has become a fundamental concern and has achieved the
first order of priority as part of the new functions of the State. In this redefinition of
the functions of the State, the social dimension of State activities has become a
priority.
In this context, public expenditure has been transformed profoundly. Its
most outstanding changes have been the notable reduction of the weight of debt
service and the increase in the proportion of social expenditures within total
expenditures. For the first time in the history of the country, social expenditures
currently have reached 10% of the GDP through these changes.



- 132 -
ANNEX L
Page 2 of 6
In addition to this quantitative change, one must add the distinctive
element in the new sociai policy in Mexico: social participation has acquired a central
role in the national strategy, especially in actions taken to fight extreme poverty.
This new element of social participation substantially modifies the
strategies of previous efforts to fight poverty and guarantees the irreversibility of the
process, which is of great importance in making policy implementation more efficient.
The National Solidarity Program is the principal instrument of the new
social policy of the State and represents the combined efforts of the State and the
society to pay explicit attention to the needs of the less favored (poor) population of
the country.
At the core of Solidarity's strategy is social participation developed
within the framework of the renewed relation between the State and its populace. This
participation plays a key role in the process of transforming living conditions. In this
way, the population does not receive passively institutional action by the State, but is
instead an active agent that participates in the decisions related to improving its living
conditions. This is Solidarity's distinguishing element and its principal social asset.
In this strategic framework, the population, organized in Solidarity
Committees, identifies and defines its priority needs, contributes to selecting the best
alternatives to address these needs and participates in implementing projects and
actions, supervises and controls their completion and operates and maintains
constructed infrastructure.
This social participation is developed with a respect for the
communities' natural forms of organizing, encouraging the development of democratic
organizational processes directed by the populace itself.
Decentralization is another important strategic element of Solidarity. In
effect, the definition of the specific programs and actions, their implementation,
control and monitoring are decentralized towards the states and to a great extent, the
municipalities-which is very significant since it allows municipalities to assume
participating in managing important and transcendental programs throughout the
nation-for the first time in the history of the country.
Before Solidarity, the country's municipalities in effect assumed either
a modest role or in many cases almost no role in managing and implementing
programs to address the basic needs of the population. In the best of cases, the role
of a great majority of the municipalities was limited to being merely the purveyors of
requests of the population for assistance from the federal or state agencies for social
infrastructure and other works.



- 133 -
ANNEX L
Page 3 or 6
In the current Administration, decentralizing functions and resources to
the municipalities through Solidarity has permitted reactivating municipal government
in two fundamental ways:
*     The municipality has been recognized and valued by its communities as
an entity capable of addressing its most urgent needs. This is to say,
that one sees a strengthened relationship between municipal
governments and their communities which fosters the process of social
participation within the activities of municipal governments across the
country; and
*     The operational requirements of the programs and functions transferred
to municipalities have obligated the municipalities to activate their
technical, administrative, accounting and other capacities--an effort that
has received support from the Federal and State Governments.
Solidarity is thus a national strategy which joins the forces of the State
and the Society, makes social participation its fundamental strategic element and uses
decentralization as the basic element to orient its development and implementation.
In the National Solidarity Program, decentralization is not limited to
governmental entities but includes the decentralization of functions to organized
communities as its central objective.
Decentralization within Solidarity has as its ultimate objective social
organizations, which should be transferred through a dynamic and irreversible process
the fundamental functions in supporting transforming welfare conditions.
Solidarity has advanced significantly in this respect. It is for this reason
that one can speak of the presence of irreversible processes that are being
consolidated and that constitute a solid and important base for continuing the efforts in
the country's fight against poverty.
The Mexican Government will maintain the vigor of its social policy
and its particular approach in addressing poverty, while enriching this approach with
the lessons of experience and always considering the primary importance of societal
opinion and consensus in defining the achievements, contents and implementation
mechanisms.
In the future, there will be a need to develop further the processes of
social participation and decentralization generated within the framework of Solidarity
since this program does not consist of a limited strategy but of an intense social and
institutional dynamic with an immense potential in contributing to transform the
welfare conditions of the country's poorest populations.



- 134 -
ANNEX L
Page 4 of 6
The experience of the last two years has shown that transferring the
basic role to communities in the process of improving their living conditions,
constitutes the best guarantee to success and the efficiency of the policies and
programs that are being undertaken.
In the society there exists an enormous potential for transformation that
Solidarity has reactivated and that will be realized with even greater power in the
future through an accelerated process transferring even greater functions to
communities and the populace at large, within the policies and strategies directed to
fight the most severe poverty.
Decentralization will require a greater activism so that the states and,
above all, the municipalities acquire a more important role in the policies that address
extreme poverty and, in general, in development strategy.
A greater process of decentralization will assume, therefore, a basic
premise of institutional action accompanied by a process of restructuring which would
contribute to the efficiency of programs and actions developed to support the national
level efforts to elevate the living conditions of the population lacking the most basic
needs.
Within this framework of future governmental action related to
alleviating extreme poverty, the following are relevant actions which the Mexican
Government will undertake:
(a)   Consolidate a significant proportion of Social Expenditures within the overall
structure of the public expenditures, so that it maintains at least the average
level that it has had in recent years as a first order of measuring the
institutionalization of extreme poverty alleviation policy.
Regarding the above, the programs of poverty alleviation will be maintained at
the least at their current levels, in real terms.
(b)   Make the planning of poverty-related expenditures more efficient by
guaranteeing a more efficient targeting of expenditure to the regions and
groups with the greatest need.
(c)   Foster the decentralization of social policy, especially of poverty alleviation
policy, to the states, and, above all, to the municipalities, as the most viable
approach to fostering social participation and the efficient instrumentation of
these strategies.
With respect to the above, it is anticipated that the municipalities will manage
at least 25 percent of the resources asociated with poverty programs.



-135 -
ANNEX L
Page 5 of 6
(d)   Rearrange the operations of the programs and actions that implement the
poverty alleviation policy, with the aim of achieving their objectives more
efficiently.
Regarding the above, progress will be made in limiting the role of the Federal
Government to that of policy formulation and oversight, with the remaining
functions falling upon the states, municipalities and communities.
(e)   Implement actions that contribute to strengthening and valuing municipal
government, to levels higher than that achieved presently. The following are
included within these actions:
1- Consolidate and even increase the current levels of the municipalities'
participation in implementing poverty alleviation policy.
2- Define and implement a strategy of strengthening the municipal
governments' institutional capacity (technical, administrative, etc...) so that
they can assume efficiently an increasing amount of the functions, programs
and responsibilities that the Federal and State Governments are transferring to
them.
3- Review the municipalities' financial situation and define strategies of
financial strengthening that permit them to undertake a greater role in the
promoting development within their own jurisdictions.
4- Promote, within a framework that respects the State Governments'
sovereignty, the review of formulae for distributing revenue-sharing to the
municipalities.
5- Review structural factors (judicial, regulatory, etc...) that affect the
municipalities' participation in the development process and promote actions
that help modify these factors in order to support reactivating municipal
government.
(f)    Develop strategies so that the organized population can assume a growing and
* more efficient participation in the processes related to defining, implementing
and monitoring the policies, programs and actions aimed at serving the
neediest groups, as well as maintaining and operating completed infrastructure.



- 136 -
ANNEX L
Page 6 of 6
The preceding actions, among others, will contribute to the
institutionalization of a policy against extreme poverty, a process which has had
important advances in the present Federal Administration, and its formalization as a
state policy.
Sincerely,
Sufragio Efectivo, No Reelecci6n
The Secretary
Carlos Rojas Gutierrez
(Secretariat of Social Development)



- 137 -
ANNEX M
Page 1 of 1
AEXICO
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND REGIONAL DEVELOPM\ENT PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File
1.    Selected Bank Reports and Studies
World Bank Report No. 8786-ME. Staff Appraisal Report Mexico Decentralization
and Regional Development Project for the Disadvantaged States. Loan 3310-ME.
March 4, 1991.
World Bank Project Completion Report for Integrated Rural Development Project -
PIDER m. Loan 2043-ME. June 14, 1990.
World Bank Report TWU 11. Rural Road Maintenance and Improvement: Best
Practice. Chris Hoban, John Riverson, and Albert Weckerle. March 1994
2.    Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Draft Project Operational Manual, dated July 19, 1994.
Community Participation in Mexico's Municipal Funds Program: The Case of
Oaxaca.' Summary Report of Phase One - December 1993. Jonathan Fox (MIT)
and Josefina Aranda (UABJO).
Estudio Comparativo sobre la Construcci6n, Rehabilitaci6n y Mantenimiento de
Escuelas Primarias Rurales, Programa para Abatir el Rezago Educativo, Rodrigo
Gonzalez Kelz, consultant, Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo (CONAFE) and
World Bank, June 1993, Mexico.
3 .    Project Implementation Files
Working Paper No. 1: Inter-governmental Relations in Mexico: Focus on the Eight
Project States
Working Paper No. 2: Analysis of Inter-governmental Fiscal Relations in Mexico:
Focus on the Eight Project States
Working Paper No. 3: Municipal Government in Mexico
Working Paper No. 4: Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Working Paper No. 5: Agriculture and Small Farmer Production: The Case of
PRONASOL in Oaxaca
Working Paper No. 6: Rural Water Supply Component (in Spanish)






|       . -  .                              UNITED    STATES   OF   AMERICA
A-
SONORA
I !    CHIHUAHUA
-.                                           i/     "       \.
-v      +        -            .            > 8 !   s    ......... z zCOAHUILA j
Zf-        I NUEVO    -
>               t            5 LEON
s   DURANGO       .
SINALOA~ ,'                            *.
II          SINALOA t (I;  .!    p   'U Ai ~         TAMAULIPAS
'-_,/Zoojcas q
t  /~ .  ,      SAN LUIS'    -
NAYARIT .    AACI415POTOSI
J   ~~~~O5b\.. ~~~~~~YUCATAN,
MEXICO                            N                                    I                               YUCATANA
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND    JALIsco .,  A .s  t rePotuc9KJ D NTA                                                              UINTANA
MEXI  flY                       ~~~~~~CAM PECHF
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT STATES                                                                             TABASCO
Chilponcingo                .                - \        BELIZE
PROJECT STATES                                                   >  oxoco           7    Tuolo Gu,t,eiezj
*   STATE CAPITALS'                                                  (                                    J     L.
6   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                 GUATEMALA .
-- - STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                               .              ( HONDURAS
-*- INTERNATIONAl BOUNDARIES                      0      100   200    300
*Stote Capitals are shown in project states only.                                                                     SALVADORo
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~                         t h eoo  ronifx.o   nd og ., doEM  ,n,o    o~
s r, Fi,      i,, ri   p. imp. r                                     N wIM 8  NICARAGUA
rq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o oci oo xl .o~rr arjch hoodoir
0,






.!~~~~~~~~AAC                                             --- .-----_
VERACRUZ   C.MEXICO
STATE OF CHIAPAS
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5-< ~~~~'it 1ill Flores )8-t   $  
y+j~~~~~~.                                                                GUATEMAlA
RURAL AND URBAN MUNICIPALITIES
\                 J                                       ~)~ oir 7,k  PARTICIPATING IN MUNICIPAL FUNDS PROGRAM   0     20           A OG
.3 .   jCOMPLETELY RURAL MUNICIPALITIES (TYPE A(    KIF .
iF1 PARTIALLY RURAL MUNICIPALITIES (AT LEAST  _____________________________
\LZ.J   ) 1/3 RURAL- TYPE 81)
PACIFIC  ' 2URBAN MUNICIPALITIES (LESS THAN 1/3 RURAL-     -    .     NITFn IAIF .)[ AMEPI A
PACIFIC                                                             Li TYPE B2)
LARGE URBAN MUNICIPALITIES (EXCLUDED FROM
OCEAN                                                              F        PROJECT FINANCED MUNICIPAL FUNDS)
*    STATE CAPITAL
o   SELECTED CITIES
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                                                i.
c      . bo.,,A-, ld      . -d  Olw r                                                      -   -  STATE BOUNDARIES
_  rAs                                                                      - .refs-chOas  ~--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Fl SA(IV~AL.






MICHOACAN                                      /    M-XIC
 I l l | w             _MORELOS  o
STATE OF GUERRERO                                                    ce8-- 'V                                                          '
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND                                                       &                                                       elleopvotas8eis8 I> l$vvr8
REGIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                                        so;sGsr-enornmnl;lll;lmflsosern
RURAL AND URBAN MUNICIPAtlITIES
PARTICIPATING IN MUNICIPAL FUNDS PROGRAM: UNTD.llSr)AMPA
_   COMPLETELY RURAL MUNICIPAtlITIES (TYPE A(                                                             
PARTIALLY RURAL MUNICIPALITIES IAT LEAST                                                                                                    _"N
_   1/3 RURAL -TYPEBl1 ) 
W   LARGE URBAN MUNICIPALITIES (EXCLUDED FROM                                                                                                )'         i
r     PROJECT FINANCED MUNICIPAL FUNDSI                                                                                                              ;S
*3 STATE CAPITAL ,' 
>         ~~~o SELECTED CITIES                                          0        30       60.      90       120 KILOMETERS                                            t.)
I   I     ~~~~~oI 
C           ________ MUNICIPALBOUNDARIES                                                                                                                      {.la    '        ^         +ruM
_    S              STATE BOUNDARIES                      rsA /
SECND  ECETRAIZAIONAN






MEXICO
SAN LUIS                                                      STATE OF HIDALGO
I        POTOSI                                                    SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND
W-L                                   REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA A*4 U-AT MIUL lt  II '                                              2
PART IC  PAT ING IN MUIJIC( I IA   R O U PGRAM
COMPLFTELY RIJRAI MtJtYll lPAlilif (TYPE A)
QUER-ETAROI   PARTIALIY RURAL MUNICII AllIl C (AT IEAST
QUERETARO.  -   'IRULIPEl
LII;]^r    .                           Z   uRELIU AN   MlJNICIPALITlFS  (LrP5  THATI   I 'R    RURAL
.                        LACRGE UBAN  LT, AL TIA CI UPYB    LU DMED FROM
L:I    PROMECT ELNANC El I ,!L(PAL FUPLUS)
,                                                                                -                t: t   4  A   i   z    STATF CAPITAt
0    SELE C TFDF CU TE S
; I. Q t   +'~  8   ?! _ - MUNICIPAI BOLILJADPlIS
: -s-   -   STATE BOILNDARIFS
>   +Niii>a;             ^                                   _ e!  ~~~~~~~PUEBLA4
0          2!         A           60
cA.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ungo                                            EL!'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ II     T I UI'
;  _ . .  UNITFA 'UAITFC 1MIR AFI
MEXICO                                                                                                                                  \               -
--  Gt  4   -  X              , # ofA4 m
PACiIPC OCHIAAG
*i             TLAXCALA                                            ^                               PIIDALGOf
A,, o        do         p0 .  TY. W.d Rook
_ --v                                                                                                                                                                                   Ely I A,-, 0. 69a ftft, d  ;I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AF-1






MEXICO
STATE OF MICHOACAN
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND
RURAL AND URBAN MIJNICIPAWIEIS
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                     RURA_____ AN__INUM  A  U,pO,
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARTICIPATING IN MUNICIPAL IUNDS PPOGRAM
COMPLEIFLY RURAL MUNICIIALITIFS (TYPF A)
. : PARTIALLY RURAL MUNICIPAIITIFS (AT LFAST
)7     -  1/3 RURAL TYPF BI)
GUANAJUATO                       .URBAN MUNICIPALITIES itFSS T\IAN 1/3 RURAL
JALISCO                                                                                                          _1tiiod ! - LA;RGE URBAN MUNICIPAIIII S (EXCLLJDPFD FROM
PROJECTFINANCED NUNI( lAl FtIND)
@1 STATE CAPITAL
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
____STATE BOUNDARIES
OCEAN                Lozoro Cordenos  ~~                                 ~                                                      T  / 
l h. is, n~, 0d oy   d #       ordu .&,, a I                                                                                                                                             r
8   0S ^~~t,X s4. ....              i                                                                                                                MU 40 nAs -N  sn,nzr
0                     BO0 SALVADO 






.. . ..                                                                                            MEXICO
STATE OF OAXACA
PUEBLA                                       '                                                         SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RURAL AND LJPBArl MU? 4 IPALII LS
_ _                                                                           ..... w + ; . ,,, ,_ _, _Loma Bonito  PARTICIPATING IN MUNI IPAL ElH rITD PROGRAM
i_ UR   tX  -4 ' ' t z f O > COMPLETELY RUPAt MIT41(CIALITIFS, (TYPE A)
PARTIALLY RURAL MULI' IL'ALIIFS (AT LEAST
VIERACRUJZ'E                            1/3 RURAL tYPFBI)
URBAN MUNICIPALITIFS lEfSS TILAN 1/3 RURAL
TYPE B2)
PROJECT FLNANCED  ' J AICIPAL FUNDS)
0~~~~~~~~~     ~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SEECE CITIESCFC    CEN,  
$                                J  LARGE URBAN ~~~~MUNICIPALBONA IES SECUDDFO
STATE BOUNDARIES
GUERRERO/
> K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IjOFTt .;-                                                                                                                               I
9; -,, - -  U.ITED STALES or AICA
_~~~~~A                     s o     d    -_120AVDO  
0L ~~~80                         10PACIFIC  OCEAN 
Gnxq., ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r t4rv                                                                                                  AA?TMALA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,tFAL
.,donrnwvo,  o/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4






MEXICO
STATE OF PUEBLA                                                                                 '
I SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT >                                                                                         GULF OF
RURA. AND URBAN MUN CIPALITIES PROGAM                                                                         MEXICO
PARTICIPAT NG IN MUNICIPAL fUNDS PROGRAM,
COMPLETELY RURAL MUNICIPALITIES )TYPE A)    j
PARTIALLY RURAL MUNICIPAL TIES (AT LEAST
1, 3 RURAL TYPE BI
Cifl    URBAN MUNICIPALITIES (LESS THAN 1/3 RURAL       /
TYPE 32)                                                             [cote
_   LARGE URBAN MUNICIPALITIES (EXCLUDED FROM
PROJECT FINANCED MUNICIPAL FUNDS)
@    STATE CAPITAL                   HIDALGO                       H
o    SELECTED CITIES
MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARIES      ,- 
, < _ ...  _ * -   <,, <r,  ;   ..-......VERACRUZ
MEXICO                           TLAXCALA                                      _
. . ~~~- . ;            PUE.   -:a!mC, t
MORELOS  -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .%-'..'.  C
GUERRERO                                   -
OAXACA
o0   20 40o    60                                                                                C<f                              f--
KlLCMEtCRS                                                                                            S -
Il- d-o   ,d -y .0  .6-/F  _
AUGUST I "A






IBRD 25687
TAMAULIPAS                                                 MEXICO
* >^ X >                    STATE OF VERACRUZ
a                         SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND
SAN LUIS                 Pa..                              REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
POTOSI
RURAL AND URBAN MUNICIPALITIES
PARTICIPATING IN MUNICIPAL FUNDS PROGRAM
COMPLETELY RURAL MUNICIPALITIES (TYPE A)
PARTIALLY RURAL MUNICIPALITIES (AT LEAST
IP, >  JF3s 1{4B                  _        J1/3 RURAL TYPE Bi)
HIDAlGO                                       V                                 URBAN MUNICIPALITIES (LESS THAN 1/3 RURAL-
TYPE B2)
, . ; .rs  1 LARGE URBAN MUNICIPALITIES IEXCLUDED FROM
PROJECT FINANCED MUNICIPAL FUNDS)
STATE CAPiTAL
o    SELECTED CITIES
___; j  MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
ii-.$ -i  STATE BOUNDARIES
w~~~~~~ 'o b
.'I e Ttyrtt
PUEBLA             *4 
Cazcoac
.4m  S ~~~~4
TABASCO
OAXACA                                    LOSC
LkVM  ~> !ETE OF  cNC
CHIAPAS
0         50        ]OD        ISO
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .   .    ., 1 - -oI< #..WM8&
List},.;v<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W.... A. t- 
-w1~~~~~~~~~~5 -- ' '
AU-GUST 199A






WDNL LJUOOO
e   - -                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
>     /91 <Xs ~~COAHUIA
MEXICO                                   / /   1 
STATE OF ZACATECAS  '
SECOND DECENTRALIZATION AND
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DURANGO
~~~~~~~SAN|
LUIS
s. JALISCO                                     AGUASCALIENTES
.,  ,. ,-+ k   <  .   ,> - . il  _                                             rb. bohnd-ra color,.
!       05---;  *         2             p                             0   15  30  45   60    doW,oi
_e^/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mm .                                               0.s 'v. Ak gijdo11,,
-ILOMETERS        coy tiory. or  cOy
RURAL AND URBAN MUNICIPALITIES                                                        tk                   S    O AM, CA
PARTICIPATING IN MUNICIPAL FUNDS PROGRAM:
COMPLETELY RURAL MUNICIPALITIES (TYPE A)
PARTIALLY RURAL MUNICIPALITIES (AT LEAST              STATE CAPITAL
1/3 RURAL - TYPE 81)                                 S SELECTED CITIES                    sS                          of f  _
z URBAN MUNICIPALITIES (LESS THAN 1/3 RURAL        -           MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
TYPE 82)  ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     -   -STATE BOUNDARIES
z LARGE URBAN MUNICIPALITIES (EXCLUDED FROM
PROJECT FINANCED MUNICIPAL FUNDS)
AUGUST 199A



