Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3790 ME
                            Guarantee Agreement
        (Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project)
                                  between
                           UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated October 2, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3790 ME
                            GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1994, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
(the Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
    (B)   by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to five
hundred million dollars ($500,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations
of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such
other obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
Page  2
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower and to
undertake such other obligations as set forth in this
Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the Loan
Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                       Guarantee; Provision of Funds
    Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the
punctual performance of all the other obligations of the
Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
    Section 2.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan
Agreement and, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, shall
not amend or fail to enforce any provisions of such contractual
arrangements. The Guarantor shall exercise its rights under
such contractual arrangements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Guarantor and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan.
    Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall provide, in a timely
manner as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Guarantee Agreement, shall carry out the Project through
SEDESOL with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate financial, administrative, technical and
environmental standards and practices.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out, or cause to be
Page  3
carried out, the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating
respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) with regard to the Project.
    Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Guarantor, through
SEDESOL, shall:
    (a)   submit draft annual plans for the execution of Parts
A.1(b), A.2(b) and A.3(c) of the Project to the Bank by January
31 of each year of Project implementation, plus any interim
updates of said plans, for the Bank's review and approval and
shall thereafter carry out said plans as approved by the Bank;
    (b)   carry out, in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Operational Manual, field reviews of the execution of
Parts A.1 through A.4 of the Project through the PCU and the
State PCUs and forward the results of these reviews to the Bank
for its review and comment as part of the information to be
furnished in the semi-annual reports referred to in paragraph
(d) below;
    (c)   provide to the Bank on a quarterly basis a copy of the
information available from the Monitoring System's central data
base on diskette;
    (d)   furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports covering
commitments of funds and activities under the Project for the
first six months of the year not later than July 31 and for the
second six months of the year not later than January 31 of the
next year, and a report on the status of implementation of the
Project during the previous year by June 30 of each year, said
reports to be in a format and of such scope and detail as
agreed between the Guarantor and the Bank;
    (e)   carry out a comprehensive midterm review with the Bank
not later than March 31, 1997 on the basis of, inter alia, a
study of each subpart of the Project, said study to be carried
out by the PCU with the assistance of external experts
contracted on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank and to be completed by December 31, 1996;
    (f)   promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the
Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the
Project or the achievement of its objective if, as a result of
any semi-annual or annual report or the midterm review (or
physical performance evaluations referred to in paragraph (g)
of this Section), progress in the execution of the Project or
in the achievement of the objective of the Project is not
satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (g)   carry out three physical performance evaluations, as
set forth in the Project Operational Manual, with the
assistance of external experts contracted on the basis of terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank, the first such evaluation
to be completed by December 31, 1996, the second by December
31, 1997 and the third by December 31, 1998.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Guarantor, through SEDESOL, shall
maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
    (b)   The Guarantor shall:
          (i)   have such records and separate accounts referred
Page  4
                to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
                fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally
                accepted auditing standards and procedures
                consistently applied, by independent and
                qualified auditors;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than nine months after the end
                of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                of such audit by said auditors, all of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts as well as
                the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Guarantor shall:
          (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                this Section, records and separate accounts
                reflecting such expenditures, including copies of
                all oficios de aprobacion and actas de entrega y
                recepcion referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 2
                to the Guarantee Agreement;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and separate accounts
                are included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
    (d)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
were made from the Special Account, the Guarantor shall provide
to the Borrower any information that may be required by the
Borrower to comply with the Borrower's obligations under
Section 4.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
    Section 5.01. The Director General de Credito Publico of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Guarantor:
          Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Direccion General de Credito Publico
          Palacio Nacional, Patio Central
Page  5
          Oficina 4037
          06066 Mexico, D.F., Mexico
                                         Telex:
                                           1777313-SHOCME
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in Madrid, Spain, as of the
day and year first above written.
                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                       By /s/ Pedro Aspe Armella
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                          Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.  The Guarantor, through SEDESOL, shall maintain within
SEDESOL's offices in the Federal District an overall project
coordinating unit with four program units to manage and
supervise the execution of, respectively, Parts A.1, A.2, A.3
and A.4 of the Project, plus one general administrative unit
for procurement, disbursement, and monitoring and information
management, all of said units to have the staffing profile
agreed with the Bank.
2.  In order to ensure effective coordination and supervision of
Project activities in the Project States, the Guarantor,
through SEDESOL, shall also maintain within each of the SEDESOL
Delegations a project coordinating unit with a similar staffing
profile as the PCU and as agreed with the Bank.
Page  6
General Provisions for the Execution of Part A of the Project
3.  The Guarantor, through SEDESOL, shall carry out Part A of
the Project in accordance with the Project Operational Manual,
said manual to include all appraisal and selection criteria for
Subprojects and all relevant provisions of the Loan Agreement
and the Guarantee Agreement for the execution of the Project
and its financing by the Bank.
4.  In order to formalize the participation of the Project
States in the execution of the Project on the basis of the
Project Operational Manual, the Guarantor, through SEDESOL,
shall enter into Social Development Agreements with each of the
Project States and shall forward to the Bank a copy of each
such Social Development Agreement, including its annexes,
promptly after their signature.
5.  The Guarantor, through SEDESOL, shall ensure that in each of
the Project States a working group of municipal presidents is
established, as set forth in the Project Operational Manual, in
order to provide regular input into, and review of, the
implementation of Part A of the Project in each of the Project
States.
6.  The Guarantor, through the PCU and through the State PCUs,
shall operate an information and monitoring system for the
Project acceptable to the Bank.
Execution of Part A.1 of the Project
7.  For the purpose of the execution of Part A.1 of the Project,
the Guarantor, through SEDESOL, shall apply as set forth in the
Project Operational Manual:
    (a)   a formula for the distribution of Municipal Funds
Program funds in each of the Project States based on factors
relating to poverty, population and population distribution of
the municipalities, and
    (b)   limits binding on the municipalities for the investment
of funds in the cabecera that are based on the size of the
cabecera and the percentage of the municipal population
residing there.
8.  The program of technical assistance for institutional
development of rural and semi-rural municipalities referred to
in Part A.1 (b) of the Project  shall be focused on such areas
as increasing municipal revenues, developing budgeting and
accounting systems, providing training, exchange programs and
technical assistance in investment planning and operations and
maintenance, and promotion of community participation, all as
set forth in the Project Operational Manual. It shall also
include:
    (a)   establishment, if not already in existence, and
operation of an interstate technical group of representatives
of SHCP, the State Financial Secretaries and representatives of
the MPWG responsible for fiscal strengthening, as set forth in
the Project Operational Manual, to work on municipal fiscal
strengthening (e.g. revenue generation and financial
management); and
    (b)   establishment, if not already in existence, and
operation of an interstate technical group of representatives
of State agencies and the SEDESOL Delegations responsible for
the Municipal Funds Program and representatives of the MPWG, as
set forth in the Project Operational Manual, to work on
implementation, improvement and monitoring of the Municipal
Funds Program.
Execution of Part A.2 of the Project
9.  For the purpose of the execution of Part A.2 (a) of the
Project, the Guarantor, through SEDESOL, shall ensure that
Page  7
water supply systems constructed, rehabilitated or extended
under this Part of the Project: (a) meet the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and (b)
will be operated and maintained by the community, through a
community water committee, or by the municipality. In order to
facilitate such operation and maintenance, the Guarantor,
through SEDESOL, shall include an annex to all contracts for
water supply works for the provision of training of the local
members of the water committee or other members of the
municipality in basic operation and maintenance of the systems
being contracted.
10.       State Water Agencies and local water organizations
shall be strengthened on the basis of an institutional
development plan acceptable to the Bank and which shall include:
    (a)   development of a methodology to inventory existing
water supply systems and requirements and potential for rural
water supply development in the Project States and application
of said methodology on a pilot basis in the Project States;
    (b)   the execution of special studies including improvement
of cost-recovery in rural systems and such areas as alternative
sources of energy and energy savings, hydrology, and
development of management information systems on the basis of
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
    (c)   improvement of the technical capacity of staff through
the acquisition of appropriate equipment, training, in Mexico
and abroad, and the provision of technical assistance focusing
on engineering skills, environmental assessment, operation and
maintenance and community participation;
    (d)   establishment, by June 30, 1995, and operation by the
State Water Organizations of an MSU, as set forth in the
Project Operational Manual, to assist rural municipalities in
addressing technical, administrative and cost recovery issues,
and the execution of studies and provision of technical
assistance for this purpose; and
    (e)   establishment (to the extent not already in existence)
and operation during the course of the Project of an interstate
technical group for rural water supply development, composed of
senior representatives of each State Water Agency and the water
supply unit in the PCU.
Execution of Part A.3 of the Project
11.       For the purpose of the execution of Parts A.3 (a) and
(b) of the Project, the Guarantor, through SEDESOL, shall
ensure that no rural roads shall be included in Parts A.3 (a)
or (b) of the Project unless: (a) they meet the eligibility
criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual; and (b)
they are included in the list set forth in an Annex to the
Project Operational Manual, as said list may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank.
12.       All spot improvements carried out under Part A.3(a) of
the Project shall comply with the provisions of a technical
manual acceptable to the Bank, as said manual may be revised
from time to time in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
13.       The Guarantor, through SEDESOL, shall promote the
transfer of the federal roads rehabilitated under Part A.3 (a)
of the Project to the road inventory of the Project States for
their subsequent maintenance by the State Road Agencies.
14.       Part A.3 (b) of the Project shall be carried out by
lengthmen (peones camineros) contracted by the municipalities
on the basis of a standard contract (convenio) agreed with the
Bank;
Page  8
15.       State Road Agencies shall be strengthened on the basis
of an institutional development program acceptable to the Bank
and which shall include:
    (a)   provision of technical assistance and training to
develop and start the implementation of a rural road network
information and monitoring system and acquisition of
appropriate equipment;
    (b)   provision of technical assistance to further develop
the spot improvement guidelines and to train staff in the
implementation of the methodology;
    (c)   establishment (to the extent not already in existence)
and operation during the course of the Project of an interstate
technical group for rural roads, composed of senior
representatives of each State Road Agency and the rural roads
unit in the PCU; and
    (d)   establishment, by June 30, 1995, and operation by the
State Road Agencies of an MSU as set forth in the Project
Operational Manual, in order to achieve greater municipal and
community participation in the implementation of spot
improvement works and routine maintenance of rural roads and to
assist municipalities in preparing their engineering designs
(expedientes tecnicos) for road or street projects to be
financed under the Municipal Funds Program; and
    (e)   improvement of the technical capacity of staff through
training, in Mexico and abroad, and the provision of technical
assistance focusing on engineering skills, environmental
assessment, and managerial skills.
Execution of Part A.4 of the Project
16.       The Guarantor, through the Borrower, shall propose to
the Bank for its approval a plan for the promotion, execution
and supervision of Income Generating Programs under Part A.4 of
the Project and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be
carried out, said plan as approved by the Bank.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:         Procurement of Goods
1.  Goods and construction materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $350,000 or less per contract but more than
$100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such procurement shall
take place using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the
Bank.
2.  Goods and construction materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of $20,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Part B:   Procurement of Works
1.  Procurement of works for Part A.1 of the Project shall be on
the basis of direct contracting of local Solidarity committees
by the municipalities, up to an aggregate amount of
$666,000,000 equivalent, each such contract (convenio de
concertacion) to be supported by a technical proposal and a
Page  9
budget summarized in an oficio de aprobacion signed by SEDESOL,
a receipt for the funds received by the Solidarity committee,
and completion of the works substantiated by an acta de entrega
y recepcion duly signed by the Solidarity committee, and the
municipality to certify the completion of the works and the
total cost. No works costing more than $50,000 equivalent
(excluding the value of community contributions) shall be
procured.
2.  Procurement of works for Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project
shall be carried out by the respective State Water Agencies and
the State Road Agencies as follows:
    (a)   works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$10,000,000 equivalent per contract but more than $350,000
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such procurement shall
take place using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the
Bank.
    (b)   Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $126,000,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
    (c)   Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $90,000,000
equivalent, may be procured by direct contracting with the
local Solidarity committees in accordance with the provisions
set forth in paragraph 1 above. In the case of such direct
contracting of rural roads works under Part A.3 of the Project,
unskilled community labor shall not be considered a community
contribution but shall be remunerated.
    (d)   Contracts for rural road rehabilitation shall, to the
extent practicable, be grouped in packages estimated to cost
not less than $50,000 equivalent.
Part C:   General Provisions
1.  All direct contracting shall be done in accordance with
standard agreements as set forth in the Project Operational
Manual.
2.  Prior to December 31, 1995, the Guarantor, through SEDESOL,
shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, a study on the
effectiveness of direct contracting to the local Solidarity
committees and procurement by local Solidarity committees, with
the assistance of external experts contracted by the PCU on the
basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and shall
forward a copy of said study to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods
or construction materials and the first two contracts for works
in each of the Project States procured in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Part A.1 and Part B.2 (a) of this
Schedule; (ii) the first contract (convenio) for water supply
works and for road rehabilitation let by direct contracting in
each Project State; and (iii) each contract for works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more procured in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Part B.2 (a) of
this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
Page  10
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.      Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Guarantor, through SEDESOL, in
carrying out the Project, the Guarantor shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Guarantor, through
SEDESOL, shall employ such consultants under contracts using
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Guarantor shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount for
contracts with firms and individuals of $88,000,000 equivalent.
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
