Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3790 ME
                              Loan Agreement
        (Second Decentralization and Regional Development Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                        NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                           Dated October 2, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3790 ME
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NACIONAL
FINANCIERA, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
    WHEREAS: (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
    (B)   by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
    under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "cabecera" means the seat of government of a
municipality;
    (b)   "COPLADE" means the Planning Committee of each Project
State (Comite para la Planeacion del Desarrollo);
    (c)   "Federal District" means the Guarantor's Distrito
Federal;
    (d)   "Implementation Program" means the program for the
execution of the Project set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Guarantee Agreement;
    (e)   "Income Generating Programs" means programs of income
generating services and productive projects (proyectos
productivos);
    (f)   "INEGI" means the Guarantor's Instituto Nacional de
Estadistica, Geografia e Informatica;
    (g)   "ITG" means any one of the interstate technical groups
referred to in paragraphs 8 (a), 8 (b), 10 (e) or 15 (c) of the
Implementation Program as the context may require;
    (h)   "Monitoring System" means the information and
monitoring system referred to in paragraph 6 of the
Implementation Program;
    (i)   "MPWG" means the municipal presidents working group
referred to in paragraph 5 of the Implementation Program;
    (j)   "MSU" means any one of the municipal support units to
be established in the State Water Agencies and the State Road
Agencies in accordance with the provisions of, respectively,
paragraphs 10 (d) or 15 (d) of the Implementation Program;
    (k)   "Municipal Funds Program" means SEDESOL's program for
small municipal investments as defined in the Project
Operational Manual as "Fondos Municipales" and includes
SEDESOL's program for school rehabilitation and maintenance
called Escuela Digna;
    (l)   "PCU" means the project coordinating unit referred to
in paragraph 1 of the Implementation Program;
    (m)   "Project Operational Manual" means the operational
manual, including technical annexes for each of Parts A.1
Page  3
through A.4 of the Project, to be adopted by SEDESOL and
approved by the Bank for use by SEDESOL and the Project States
for the execution and supervision of Part A of the Project, as
such manual may be amended from time to time in agreement with
the Bank;
    (n)   "Project States" means the States of Chiapas, Guerrero,
Hidalgo, Oaxaca, Michoacan, Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas;
    (o)   "SEDESOL" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Social
Development (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social);
    (p)   "SEDESOL Delegation" means the local office of SEDESOL
in each of the Project States;
    (q)   "Selected Rural Roads" means rural roads that comply
with the requirements of paragraph 11 of the Implementation
Program;
    (r)   "SHCP" means the Guarantor's Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico);
    (s)   "Social Development Agreement" means the agreement
(Convenio de Desarrollo Social) between the Guarantor, through
SEDESOL, and the Project States for the execution of the
Project, and such agreement includes separate annexes for the
execution of the Project generally (Anexo de Ejecucion) and for
the specific requirements of Part A.1 of the Project;
    (t)   "Solidarity" means the national solidarity program
(Programa Nacional de Solidaridad) of the Guarantor;
    (u)   "State Financial Secretaries" means the Financial
Secretaries or equivalent of the Project States;
    (v)   "State PCUs" means the project coordinating units
within the SEDESOL Delegations as described in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement;
    (w)   "State Road Agencies" means the official road agencies
of the Project States identified in the Project Operational
Manual;
    (x)   "State Water Agencies" means the official water
agencies of the Project States identified in the Project
Operational Manual; and
    (y)   "Subprojects" means investments or income producing
activities financed, or to be financed, under Parts A.1 through
A.4 of the Project.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of five hundred million dollars
($500,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
Page  4
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banco
de Mexico on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the
          Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."
Page  5
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Other Covenants
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank,
providing, inter alia, for: (i) the transfer to the Guarantor
of the proceeds of the Loan for the carrying out of the Project
through SEDESOL; and (ii) the transfer by the Guarantor to the
Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay
to the Bank on account of principal, interest and other charges
on the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of
such contractual arrangements.
    (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (a) above in
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to the Guarantee Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by, or shall be caused to be carried out by, the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the midterm
review referred to in Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records
                and accounts for the Special Account, for each
                fiscal year audited, in accordance with generally
                accepted auditing standards and procedures
                consistently applied, by independent and
                qualified auditors;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than nine months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
Page  6
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank each month certified
                statements of the Special Account; and
         (iv)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts as well as
                the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall provide to the Guarantor any
information that may be required by the Guarantor to comply
with the Guarantor's obligations under Section 4.01 (c) of the
Guarantee Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any Project State shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under a Social Development Agreement or
shall have failed, or any municipality where a Subproject is
carried out shall have failed, to comply with the terms of the
Project Operational Manual. In such a case, the Bank may, after
consultation with and by notice to the Borrower and the
Guarantor, only suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account for
expenditures incurred by the Project State or any municipality
in question and may, at the request of the Borrower and the
Guarantor, reallocate Loan proceeds subject to such suspension
to Project States which are in compliance with their Social
Development Agreement and with the terms of the Project
Operational Manual.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   that the contractual arrangements referred to in
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been executed;
    (b)   that the Monitoring System is functioning at SEDESOL's
headquarters and at the SEDESOL Delegations; and
    (c)   that the Project Operational Manual has been adopted by
SEDESOL and approved by the Bank.
    Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement
have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the
Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, and are legally
binding upon the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance with
their terms.
    Section 6.03. The date January 3, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  7
    Section 7.01. The Director Internacional of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For the Borrower:
          Direccion Internacional
          Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
          Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971
          Torre IV, Piso 8
          01020 Mexico, D.F.
          Mexico
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                NAFIN                      NAFIME 383-1775765
                Mexico City                Mexico City
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in Madrid, Spain, as of the
day and year first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                       NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
                       By /s/ Arturo Ortiz Hidalgo
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
Page  8
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated             % of
                             (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) For Part A.1 of
    the  Project:
    (a)  works under             263,500,000       50%
         direct con-
         tracting
    (b)  construction             10,000,000       50%
         materials
    (c)  goods (other              8,000,000       90%
         than con-
         struction
         materials)
    (d)  technical                27,000,000       100%
         assistance
         and training
(2) For Parts A.2 and
    A.3 of the Project:
    (a)  works under              40,000,000       50%
         direct contract-
         ing
    (b)  works other than         90,000,000       50%
         (a) above
    (c)  goods                     2,000,000       90%
    (d)  engineering               6,500,000       50%
         services
    (e)  technical                 8,000,000       100%
         assistance
         and training
(3) For Part A.4 of
    the Project:
    (a)  works                    3,000,000        50%
    (b)  goods                    1,000,000        90%
    (c)  technical                5,000,000        100%
         assistance
         and training
(4) For Part B of
    the Project:
    (a)  goods                    2,000,000        90%
    (b)  long-term               13,000,000        50%
         consulting
         services
    (c)  technical                5,000,000        100%
         assistance
         and training
    (d)  audits                   3,000,000        100%
Page  9
(5)      Unallocated             13,000,000
                                ___________
         TOTAL                  500,000,000
                                ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "long-term
consulting services" means long-term consulting services for
the PCU, the State PCUs and the MSU.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000
equivalent, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) (e),
(4) (a), (4) (b) and (4) (c) of the table in paragraph 1
above on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after February 1, 1994; and (b) Category (3) of the
table in paragraph 1 above, unless the Bank shall have accepted
the Guarantor's plan for the execution of Part A.4 of the
Project referred to in paragraph 16 of the Implementation
Program.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods not exceeding $350,000 equivalent,
under contracts for works not exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent
and contracts for services not exceeding $100,000 equivalent
for firms and $50,000 for individuals, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objective of the Project is to alleviate poverty in the
Project States by increasing access of rural poor and
indigenous communities to basic social and economic
infrastructure and to income generating activities.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the
Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:         Rural Poverty Alleviation and Community
                Participation
    Support of SEDESOL's poverty alleviation efforts in the
Project States through:
1.  Municipal investment and institutional development
    (a)   Execution of small-scale investments under SEDESOL's
Municipal Funds Program.
    (b)   Execution of a program of technical assistance,
training, acquisition of appropriate equipment, and studies to
strengthen rural and semi-rural municipalities and creation and
operation of the ITGs and MPWGs for fiscal strengthening and
for the Municipal Funds Program.
2.  Rural Water Supply
    (a)   Rehabilitation, construction and extension of water
supply systems in localities with not more than 5,000
inhabitants nor less than 500 inhabitants as defined by the
1990 INEGI census, except as otherwise agreed with the Bank.
    (b)   Institutional strengthening of the State Water Agencies
and local water organizations in the Project States, including
creation and operation of the ITG and MSU for rural water
Page  10
supply.
3.  Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
    (a)   Rehabilitation of Selected Rural Roads through spot
improvements.
    (b)   Routine maintenance of rural roads eligible under the
Project Operational Manual through the use of contracted
lengthmen (peones camineros).
    (c)   Institutional strengthening of the State Road Agencies,
including creation and operation of the ITG and the MSU for
rural roads.
4.  Income Generating Programs
    Support of Income Generating Programs targeted to poor
regions, including indigenous groups and women's groups in
those regions, in the Project States under a plan approved by
the Bank.
Part B:         Institutional Strengthening of SEDESOL
1.  Execution of a program of technical assistance, studies,
training and acquisition of appropriate equipment for the
support of SEDESOL's execution of Part A of the Project,
including the provision of technical assistance and consultants
to support the PCU and to carry out annual financial audits and
physical performance evaluations.
2.  Execution of such technical assistance and studies to
further the objective of the Project as may be approved by the
Bank.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
    beginning May 15, 2000
    through May 15, 2009                       25,000,000
and on November 15, 2009                       25,000,000
Page  11
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $40,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Page  12
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
Page  13
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
