Page  1
November 29, 1999
Mr. Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín 
Director 
Internacional Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.  
Torre IV, piso 8 Plaza Inn, Insurgentes Sur 1971 
01020 México, D.F. México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100  México, D.F. México 
Re:
Loan 3790-ME (Second Decentralization and Regional Development 
Project) 
Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements and 
Side Letter
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (the Borrower), to the 
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Bank and 
to the Side Letter (re:  Format of Semi-Annual Reports; Staffing of PCU and State 
PCUs) between the Bank and the Guarantor, each dated October 2, 1994 and as 
subsequently amended, with respect to the above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to 
inform you of our agreement to amend said Loan and Guarantee Agreements and Side 
Letter as indicated below.
I.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
1.
Section 1.02 (a) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  ““Fiscal 
Coordination Law” means the Guarantor’s Ley de Coordinación Fiscal published in the 
Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la Federación (Official Gazette) on December 27, 1978, 
as amended through January 1, 1999;
2.
Sections 1.02 (b), (l), (o), (p) and (s) are hereby deliberately left blank.
3.
Section 1.02 (k) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
““Municipal Funds Program” means the Guarantor’s program for funding small municipal 
investments, which program is identified in the Fiscal Coordination Law as the Fondo 
de Aportaciones para la Infraestructura Social Municipal (Municipal Social 
Infrastructure Fund);”.
4.
Section 1.02 (m) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
““Project Operational Manual” means, for each Project State, the operational manual 
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement;”.
5.
Section 1.02 (n) is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
““Project States” means any of the states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Oaxaca, 
Michoacán, Puebla, Veracruz and Zacatecas, if deemed Project-eligible by the Bank (on 
the basis, inter alia, of the contents of their Project Operational Manual and 
willingness to abide by Project audit standards) in written notice to the Borrower and 
Guarantor;”
6.
Section 3.01 (a) (i) is hereby amended by deleting the words “through SEDESOL”.
7.
A new Section 3.05 is hereby added immediately after Section 3.04, to read as 
follows in its entirety:  “The Borrower shall, promptly upon its receipt thereof, 
furnish to the Bank all information which is provided by Project States to the 
Borrower pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement (including Section 3.04 
thereof).”.
8.
Section 5.01 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “Pursuant to 
Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following additional events are 
specified:
Page  2
(a)
that any Project State, or any municipality where a Subproject is carried 
out, shall have failed to perform any of its obligations (regarding the Municipal 
Funds Program) under the Fiscal Coordination Law or shall have failed to comply with 
the terms of the Project Operational Manual for that Project State.  In such a case, 
the Bank may, after consultation with and by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
only suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account for expenditures incurred by the Project State or any municipality in 
question and may, at the request of the Borrower and the Guarantor, reallocate Loan 
proceeds subject to such suspension to other Project States which are in compliance 
with the Fiscal Coordination Law and with the terms of their Project Operational 
Manuals; and
(b)
that the Fiscal Coordination Law or any part thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.”.
9.
A new Section 5.02 is hereby added, immediately after Section 5.01, to read as 
follows in its entirety:  “Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur.”.
10.
Sections 6.01 (b) and (c) are hereby deliberately left blank.
11.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as set forth in 
Attachment A to this letter.
12.
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is hereby deliberately left blank.
13.
Part A of Schedule 2 is hereby amended by replacing the word “SEDESOL’s”, 
wherever it appears, with the words “the Guarantor’s”.
14.
Part B of Schedule 2 is hereby deleted.
II.
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
15.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“(a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and, to this end, 
without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
the Guarantee Agreement, shall cause the 
Project States to either carry out their 
respective portions of Part A of the Project or 
cause their municipalities 
to carry out such portions, all with due diligence and efficiency  and in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative, technical and environmental 
standards and 
practices.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor 
shall cause each 
Project State and/or its municipalities to carry out the Project 
within the Project State in 
accordance with:  (i) the Implementation Program; 
(ii) an operational manual, satisfactory 
to the Bank, issued by the Project 
State, containing detailed rules and procedures for 
Project execution and 
administration (including all appraisal and selection criteria for 
Subprojects and all relevant provisions of the Loan Agreement and this Agreement for 
the 
execution of the Project and its financing by the Bank); and (iii) the 
Fiscal Coordination 
Law.  In case of any conflict or difference between the 
terms of a Project Operational 
Manual and the terms of this Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, the terms of this Agreement or 
the Loan Agreement shall 
prevail.”.
16.
Section 3.04 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “Without 
limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the 
Guarantor shall cause each Project State to:
(a)
submit draft annual plans for the execution in the Project State of Part 
A.1 (b) of the Project to the Bank, through the Borrower, by April 30 of each year of 
Page  3
Project implementation, plus any interim updates of said plans, for the Bank’s review 
and approval and thereafter carry out said plans as approved by the Bank;
(b)
carry out, in accordance with the provisions of its Project Operational 
Manual, field reviews of the execution in the Project State of Parts A.1 through A.4 
of the Project and forward the results of these reviews to the Bank, through the 
Borrower, for the Bank’s review and comment as part of the information to be furnished 
in the semi-annual reports referred to in paragraph (c) below;
(c)
provide to the Bank on a quarterly basis and on diskette, through the 
Borrower, a copy of the information available from the Project State’s Monitoring 
System’s data base;
(d)
furnish to the Bank, through the Borrower, semi-annual reports covering 
commitments of funds and activities under the Project for the first six months of the 
year not later than September 30 and for the second six months of the year not later 
than March 31 of the next year, and a report on the status of implementation of the 
Project during the previous year by June 30 of each year, said reports to be in a 
format and of such scope and detail as is satisfactory to the Bank; and
(e)
promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be 
necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its 
objective if, as a result of any semi-annual or annual report, progress in the 
execution of the Project in the Project State or in the achievement of the objective 
of the Project in the Project State is not satisfactory to the Bank.”.
17.
Section 4.01 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “(a) The 
Guarantor shall cause each Project State to maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the resources and 
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project in the Project State.
(b)
The Guarantor shall:
(i)
cause such records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year to be audited on behalf of each 
Project State, in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards 
and procedures 
consistently applied, by independent and 
qualified private sector auditors;
(ii)
cause the Bank to be furnished with, as soon as available, but in 
any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, all of 
such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
cause the Bank to be furnished with such other information 
concerning said 
records and accounts as well as the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Guarantor shall:
(i)
cause each Project State to maintain, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures, including 
copies of all oficios de aprobación and actas 
de entrega y recepción  or 
equivalent documents referred to 
in Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Guarantee 
Agreement;
(ii)
cause each Project State to retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
cause each Project State to enable the Bank’s representatives to 
examine such 
records; and
Page  4
(iv)
ensure that such records and separate accounts are included in the 
annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made from the 
Special Account, the Guarantor shall cause the Borrower to be provided (by the Project 
States or otherwise) with any information that may be required by the Borrower to 
comply with the Borrower’s obligations under Section 4.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.”.
18.
Paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of Schedule 1 are hereby deliberately left blank.
19.
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“In order to ensure effective coordination and supervision of Project activities in 
the Project States, the Guarantor shall cause each Project State to maintain a project 
coordinating unit with staff in sufficient numbers and with qualifications, experience 
and resources appropriate to carry out such coordination and supervision.”.
20.
Paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“The Guarantor shall cause an information and monitoring system for the Project, 
acceptable to the Bank, to be operational in each Project State throughout the course 
of Project implementation in the Project State.”.
21.
Paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“For the purpose of the execution of Part A.1 of the Project, the Guarantor shall 
apply (or cause to be applied) the formula set forth in the Fiscal Coordination Law 
for the distribution of Municipal Funds Program funds to each of the Project States.”.
22.
Paragraph 8 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
“The program of technical assistance for institutional development of rural and 
semi-rural municipalities referred to in Part A.1 (b) of the Project shall be focused 
on such areas as increasing municipal revenues, developing budgeting and accounting 
systems, providing training, exchange programs and technical assistance in investment 
planning and operations and maintenance, and promotion of community participation, all 
as set forth in the Project Operational Manuals.  It shall also include establishment, 
if not already in existence, and operation of an interstate technical group of 
representatives, satisfactory to the Bank, of SHCP, the State Financial Secretaries 
and representatives of the MPWG responsible for fiscal strengthening, to work on 
municipal fiscal strengthening (e.g. revenue generation and financial management).”.
23.
Section I, Part B.1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in its 
entirety:  “Procurement of works for Part A.1 of the Project shall be on the basis of 
direct contracting of local Solidarity (or successor) committees by the 
municipalities, up to an aggregate amount of $820,000,000 equivalent, each such 
contract (convenio de concertación or equivalent document) to be supported by a 
technical proposal and a budget summarized in an oficio de aprobación (or equivalent 
document) signed by the beneficiary municipality, a receipt for the funds received by 
the Solidarity (or successor) committee, and completion of the works substantiated by 
an acta de entrega y recepción (or equivalent document) duly signed by the Solidarity 
(or successor) committee, and the municipality to certify the completion of the works 
and the total cost.  No works under Part A.1 of the Project, costing more than $50,000 
equivalent (excluding the value of community contributions), or costing more than 
$100,000 equivalent in the
 case of potable water works (also excluding the value of community contributions), 
shall be procured.  However, notwithstanding the above terms of this Part B.1, potable 
water works costing $100,000 equivalent or less may also be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Bank.”.
24.
Section I, Part C.2 of Schedule 2 is hereby deliberately left blank.
25.
Section II, paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows in 
Page  5
its entirety:  “Only consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank may be employed with Loan 
proceeds for purposes of the Project.  Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
“Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  
For complex, time-based assignments, such consultants shall be employed under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms agreed with the Bank shall be used.”.
III.
Amendments to the Side Letter
26.
Annex 1 to the Side Letter is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set 
forth in Attachment B to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  The terms of this letter shall enter into effect as of January 1, 1998, upon 
receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Director, 
Mexico Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED: 
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.N.C.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/ Roberto Casillas Contreras Medellín
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno 
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
November 29, 1999
Date:
November 29, 1999
