Document of
The World Bank                 FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2559-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR A
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
May 21, 1979
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciPients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disblsed without World BDk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0       5   P 7.40
P 1.00       -   US$0.135
P 1 million  =   US$135,135
P 1 billion  -   US$135 million
.ABBREVIATIONS
IEC     -  Information, Education and Communication
MIS     -  Management Information System
MOH     -  Ministry of Health
POPCOM  -  Commission on Population
RHCDS   -  Restructured Health Care Delivery System
UNFPA   -  United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
WHO     -  World Health Organization
FISCAL YEARS
July 1-June 30 (up to June 30, 1975)
July 1-December 31, 1975 (interim)
January 1-December 31 (from January 1, 1976)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:         Republic of the Philippines
Amount:           $40 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:   The project is designed to assist the Philippines to reduce
fertility levels over the next five years and, at the same
time, decrease infant mortality and malnutrition among
children and improve the health status of semi-urban and
rural populations. The major components are aimed at
assisting: (i) the Population Commission to improve and
extend its programs to motivate family planning acceptance
and to provide population training, and (ii) the Ministry
of Health to improve and expand health and family planning
services. The principal beneficiaries of the project will
be lower income persons, mostly in rural areas, who, because
of financial constraints, must depend upon the public sector
for family planning and primary health care services. It is
estimated that an additional 3.3 million persons will be
provided with primary health care coverage, and another
3 million persons would have access to services from new
health facilities. Social programs of this kind are by
nature difficult to implement effectively. The major risks
involved in this project relate to the capability of the
Government to strengthen the Commission on Population and
the Ministry of Health to enable them to provide the
strong, consistent support that will be necessary for the
full success of the National Population Program. The
Government is in the process of upgrading the quality of
these institutions and the project provides for further
institutional reform, technical assistance and training,
which should contribute significantly to the improved
implementation of the national population and health pro-
grams. Another risk is related to the community participa-
tion approach in two components of the project - barangay
health station construction and primary health care. This
risk is offset by the potential benefits of increased
community outreach and possibilities for cost-effective
services.
This docurment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Estimated                                                        Local Foreign Total
Cost:                                                          --- $ million 
Expansion of service infrastructure             15.8      6.9   22.7
Training                                        10.2      1.0   11.1
Information, education & communication           8.1      8.5   16.6
Management information system                    0.6      1.9    2.5
Research activities                              3.5      0.7    4.1
Innovative activities                            1.0      1.0    2.0
Total base cost                              39.2    20.0   59.2
Contingencies:  physical                         1.2      0.5    1.7
price                          7.4      3.7   11.1
Subtotal                                      8.6      4.2   12.8
Total Cost                                   47.8    24.2   72.0
Financing           Source                                       Local Foreign Total
Plan:                                                         --- $ million ----
The Government                               32.0        -   32.0
IDA                                          15.8    24.2   40.0
Total                                        47.8    24.2   72.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                        FY:       1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
--------    million) ---------
Annual                         9.0    8.9   10.8    6.3    5.0
Cumulative                     9.0   17.9   28.7   35.0   40.0
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2453-PH dated May 11, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPPINES
FOR A SECOND POPULATION PROJECT        _
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of the Philippines for the equivalent of
$40 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a second population
project. The United Nations International Children's Educational Fund has
agreed to provide a grant of $200,000 to support local costs of organizing
communities to use and supervise primary health care services.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in July/August 1977
and its report, "The Philippines: Country Economic Memorandum" (No. 1765-PH
of October 26, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
PHL-77-2, dated October 27, 1977. An updating economic mission is currently
in the field. A basic economic report, entitled The Philippines: Priorities
and Prospects for Development (Sec1-76/366), was previously distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 18, 1976.
Macroeconomic Performance
3.        During the 1960s, the Philippine economy grew in real terms at
an annual rate of about 5-1/2%, but with more effective economic management
the rate of growth could have been higher. The pattern of growth was also
structurally unsatisfactory in a number of respects. The benefits of develop-
ment were distributed relatively unevenly, with respect to both regions and
income classes. While overall agricultural growth was reasonably satisfactory,
repeated foodgrain deficits were experienced. The growth of productive
employment opportunities failed to keep pace with the expansion of the labor
force. Low levels of taxation resulted in inadequate public expenditure for
necessary infrastructure and social services. Finally, poor export performance
combined with heavy import dependence of domestic industry led to chronic
weakness in the balance of payments.
4.        During the 1970s there have been significant improvements in
economic management. Public revenues have been increased substantially,
public sector implementation capacity has been strengthened, and the ratio of
public investment to GNP raised from 2% in the early 1970s to 5% in 1976-78.
Private investment also increased, and the ratio of total fixed investment to
GNP rose from 16% in the early 1970s to 25% in 1976-78. As a consequence of
/1 This section of the report is substantially the same as that contained in
the President's Report for the Second Provincial Cities Water Supply
Project (R79-114), which will be considered by the Executive Directors on
May 29, 1979.



- 2 -
higher levels of investment the construction industry boomed. Agriculture has
performed well in response to the spread of irrigation and higher yielding
rice varieties, more favorable price policies, and some improvements in
supporting services. Selective steps were taken to promote nontraditional
manufactured exports, which have grown rapidly. On the other hand, the
performance of that part of the manufacturing sector oriented to the domestic
market has remained only "fair" in a comparative sense and has been inadequate
in relation to the Philippines' need to generate productive employment
opportunities. The net effect of the above developments has been acceleration
in the trend GNP growth rate by one percentage point to 6-1/2%.
5.        An important constraint has been placed on Philippine development
options by the sharp deterioration of its terms of trade since 1975, stemming
from the increase in oil prices and depressed prices for major Philippine
commodity exports such as sugar and copper. As a result, real national income
has been growing more slowly than real national product, and with the higher
level of investment the dependence of the economy on foreign savings has
increased. Although the terms of trade have recently stabilized, the current
account deficit is still about 4% of GNP.
Development Strategy
6.        The Government's development objectives and policies, which were
set out in a Five-Year Development Plan for the period 1978-82, call for
further acceleration of economic growth, first to 7% and then to 8%. The
development strategy focuses on an expansion of productive employment oppor-
tunities at a rate of 3.6% per annum, reduction of income disparities, greater
self-sufficiency in food and energy, a strengthening of the balance of payments,
and increased development of rural areas. In addition, the Plan includes
growth strategies for each of the country's thirteen regions. In general, the
Plan is an elaboration of the policy directions pursued by the Government in
recent years. It is also broadly consistent with the Bank's assessment of
priorities, although Plan projections for investment, manufacturing output and
exports are somewhat higher than Bank staff estimates. It should, however, be
feasible to accelerate the overall growth rate to 7%, but more rapid expansion
of manufacturing is necessary to do so, and the efficiency of investment also
needs to be improved.
Agriculture and Rural Development
7.        In recent years the trend growth rate of the agricultural sector
has been slightly over 4%, which by international standards is quite good.
However, variations among subsectors have been considerable. Due to the
spread of irrigation and high yielding varieties, irrigated rice production
has increased rapidly. The Philippines, once a chronic importer of rice,
actually exported 100,000 tons of rice in 1977/78. With completion of large
irrigation projects now under implementation, continued rice self-sufficiency
appears assured for the 1980s. On the other hand, locally adapted technologies
for improving yields of rainfed grains, particularly corn, are still under
development, and rainfed agricultural areas have a high incidence of poverty.
Productivity in the coconut sector is relatively low because of a large number
of overaged trees, but a major replanting program is scheduled for the early
1980s when a sufficient number of HYV seedlings becomes available. Increasing



- 3 -
pressure of population on the land and inadequately controlled commercial
logging have led to soil erosion and deterioration of some forest areas. The
Plan calls for a major reforestation effort, but this will require substantial
upgrading of Government administrative capabilities in this area, develop-
ment of new hill cropping technologies, and resolution of difficult land
tenure problems.
8.        As well as providing greater support for agricultural production,
the Government has substantially expanded programs such as water supply,
electrification, rural roads, and health to improve living conditions
in rural areas. An agrarian reform was also instituted in 1972 which provided
for transfer of tenanted holdings of rice and corn land in excess of seven
hectares and enforcement of leasehold instead of sharecropping on remaining
tenanted holdings. As of March 1978, only about 10% of the estimated number
of land transfer beneficiaries had completed all formalities, but about 60%
had received Certificates of Land Transfer (the initial step in the process
establishing their claim to the land).
Industry
9.        Manufacturing has grown at an average rate of about 6-1/2% during
the 1970s. The greater part of the sector, oriented to the domestic market,
has been promoted by high tariff protection and an incentive system which has
favored the use of relatively capital-intensive production techniques.
Relatively little employment has been generated in relation to Philippine
factor endowments. Macro statistics such as the incremental capital-output
ratio suggest that the efficiency of investment has been low, and most
manufacturing plants have located in the greater Manila area. Reform of
tariffs and other industrial incentives to bring these into line with develop-
ment objectives are presently being considered by the Government.
10.       Beginning in 1970, selective measures have been introduced to
promote nontraditional manufactured exports, including permitting firms in
selected export industries to import needed goods free of duty and establishing
export processing zones. Entrepreneurs have responded to these opportunities,
and receipts from nontraditional manufactured exports increased from $116
million in 1972 to more than $1.0 billion in 1978.
Employment
11.       Employment increased by about 4.6% annually during 1973-77, a
considerable improvement over the historical growth rate of 2.4%, and was
able to keep pace with the rapid growth of the labor force. With the exhaustion
of most new land resources suitable for cultivation and the exploitation of the
most easily irrigable areas, industry will have to provide employment for about
one half of the new entrants to the labor force in the next decade. Employment
in manufacturing essentially stagnated during 1970-74, but grew by 7% annually
during 1975/77, resulting in part from the growth of labor-intensive production
for export. However, because manufacturing's share of total employment is
small, agriculture and services still continue to function as residual sources
of employment and accounted for most of the increase in total employment.



- 4 -
12.       For historical reasons, income distribution has been highly skewed
in the Philippines, and there is a small elite which is conspicuously wealthy.
Recent trends in income distribution are mixed but, on balance, positive.
Because of the improvement in agriculture's terms of trade, the growth of
agricultural production, the decline in urban real wages following the
devaluation in 1970, and the stagnation of industrial employment until 1975,
the ratio of the average rural income to the average urban income rose from
0.48 in 1971 to 0.57 in 1975. Real per capita consumption has increased by
about 2% annually. Hence, real incomes in rural areas, where most of the
poor live, have probably increased somewhat, while real urban incomes have
not improved substantially. As a result, although accurate statistics are
not available, the share of family income received by the poorest 40% of
families appears to have increased somewhat, the income share of the top 20%
has remained about the same, and that of the middle-income families has
declined correspondingly. Nevertheless, the incidence of poverty remains
high, at 40-45%, in both rural and urban areas, and malnutrition is wide-
spread.
Public Finance
13.       The public sector has historically claimed a much smaller share of
national resources in the Philippines than in many other developing countries.
In the early 1970s, general government expenditure averaged only 12% of GNP,
public investment was strikingly low at about 2% of GNP, and tax revenues
stood at 11% of GNP. Government expenditures were dominated by general
administration and social services, particularly education. This situation
had resulted from a variety of factors including difficulties in raising tax
revenue and weak implementation capacity in the public sector. Since the
early 1970s, the Government has taken steps to correct the situation and has
raised both the overall level of expenditures and the shares going to economic
services and public investment. By 1978 government expenditures reached an
estimated 16% of GNP, and public investment, which has risen rapidly in the
last three years, equaled about 5% of GNP. This expansion in the public
investment program has brought about badly needed improvement in basic infra-
structure particularly in transportation, power and irrigation, as well as the
development of more effective programs in the fields of urban development,
health and family planning.
14.       Recognizing that a large increase in tax revenues would be required
to finance expansion of the public investment program, the Government has
undertaken a comprehensive program of tax reform to raise the needed revenues
equitably and efficiently. Despite a sharp cyclical decline in the yield of
export taxes and import duties, the overall tax ratio was raised by more than
two percentage points through a series of new, mainly indirect, tax measures
and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection performance.
Moreover, import tariff exemptions were reduced and the financial position of
certain public enterprises was improved through selective price increases.
However, further reform measures will be needed to improve the equity of the
tax system and to strengthen its responsiveness to the growth in GNP, mainly
by increasing the proportion of revenues coming from direct taxes. In
addition, fiscal and tariff incentives will need to be rationalized further
to eliminate remaining biases favoring import substitution and capital



-5-
intensity. Continued effort will be needed to ensure that Government
corporations finance an appropriate share of their investments from their own
savings.
Private Savings and the Financial Sector
15.      Aggregate savings performance has improved during the last decade
and is comparable to that of other countries at a similar stage of economic
development. Gross domestic savings now finance about 85% of total investment,
with the balance coming from foreign savings. In order to increase the
efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and investors,
the Government has made significant improvements in financial policy. Organized
banking institutions have been strengthened. Interest rates were realigned in
1976 and, again, in 1977 to encourage a greater flow of financial savings into
time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes and to
reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates. Further reforms are
required to increase the availability of long-term domestic currency resources.
Special credit programs have been adopted to expand lending to the credit-short
agricultural sector and rural areas and to serve the needs of medium- and
small-scale industries. A deterioration of loan recovery rates was experienced
by all government financial institutions and credit programs. The Government
has already taken a number of steps to improve collections; further efforts in
this direction are necessary to improve financial discipline and ensure an
adequate flow of credit to the productive sectors without burdening the public
finances.
External Trade and Capital Flows
16.       To meet the acute balance of payments problem in 1975, which
largely resulted from the decline in terms of trade, the Government drew down
its international reserves, drew upon various IMF facilities, and expanded
its borrowing program to finance necessary imports. For the longer
term, the Government adopted a strategy of accelerating export growth both
to hold the current account deficit about constant in absolute terms, while
letting it decline gradually relative to GNP, and to meet the debt service
payments on the higher level of external borrowing.
17.       In spite of a further deterioration in the terms of trade since
1975, the current account deficit has behaved as anticipated over the last
three years - averaging $1.0 billion per year but declining from 6% of GNP in
1976 to an estimated 4% in 1978. Export volume, although constrained in 1978
by the depressed sugar market, increased substantially over the three-year
period as a whole. Import payments, after growing slowly in 1976 and 1977,
accelerated with the recovery of private investments in 1978. To finance the
current account deficits, net capital inflows were nearly doubled from the
1975 level of $580 million to an average of $1.1 billion per year in 1976-78.
Most of the inflow came from medium- and long-term loans. About two thirds
of this was from public loans, a reflection in part of increased disbursements
from official sources. As a result of increased borrowing, the debt service
ratio has risen from 16% in 1975 to 20% in 1978.
18.       To achieve a 7% growth rate in real GNP, as projected for the
initial years of the Plan period (1978-82), import volume will have to grow
at a similar rate, and a net capital inflow of at least $1 billion per year



- 6 -
will be required. However, the commencement of oil production, which now
accounts for 15% of domestic consumption, early this year promises some longer
term relief on the import side. Assuming a continued effort to promote
exports and sound debt management, the overall external debt of the Philippines
is expected to remain within reasonable limits. The ratio of debt service
payments to exports of goods and nonfactor services is expected to average
around 21%, of which half would be public debt service, during the Plan
period and to decline thereafter.
19.       In order to ensure that the long-term capital transfer is commensu-
rate with the level of development expenditures required during 1978-82 and
that debt service obligations remain within reasonable limits, the Government
sought commitments of official assistance of $850-900 million in 1979 at the
last meeting of the Consultative Group for the Philippines, held in Paris in
November/December of 1978. This amount is likely to be made available.
However, since many of the projects planned for financing from external
sources have a low foreign exchange component, some local cost financing is
necessary, in appropriate cases, to meet the Philippines' external financing
requirements.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS /1
20.       As of April 30, 1979, the Philippines had received 61 Bank loans /2
(of which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $1,929.9 million and
four IDA credits amounting to $60.2 million. At that date, IFC investments
totalled $88.4 million. The share of the Bank Group in total debt disbursed
and outstanding is about 11% and its share in total debt service is about 5%.
These ratios are expected to be about 12% and 5%, respectively, by the end of
the present decade. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of April 30, 1979, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
21.       The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of
the economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure,
which have each accounted for about one-third of total Bank Group lending.
In agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
/1  This section is substantially the same as that contained in the President's
Report for the Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project (R79-114)
which will be considered by the Executive Directors on May 29, 1979.
/2  Includes Loan 1661-PH, Fourth Highway Project, $100 million, which was
signed on March 9, 1979, and is not yet effective. Does not include
the Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project, $22 million IDA,
$16 million IBRD which will be considered by the Executive Directors on
May 29, 1979.



- 7 -
increase food production and to credit programs to support foodgrain produc-
tion and processing and livestock, fisheries and tree farming production.
Support has also been provided for integrated rural development projects in
low income areas. The Bank Group has also provided large amounts of assistance
in developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth
of the productive sectors. Substantial improvement in basic infrastructure
has been needed to compensate for many years of past neglect due to low
levels of public expenditure. In the industrial sector, the Bank's main
thrust has been on strengthening the capacity of public and private development
finance institutions with increasing attention given to meeting the needs of
small and medium industries. In the social sectors, the Bank Group has
provided support for education programs designed to improve the quality of
primary and secondary education and to meet trained manpower requirements in
agriculture and industry. In urban areas, assistance has been provided for
water supply projects and for programs to upgrade slum living conditions and
to develop low-cost sites and services. Support has also been provided to
the Philippines' population program through assistance for the development of
rural health services and for training of family planning staff.
22.       There has been a marked improvement in the execution of Bank-
financed projects in the last five years compared with the experience in the
late 1960s, when there were serious problems caused by a shortage of peso
counterpart funds and weak administration. Almost all ongoing projects are
now being implemented reasonably well and the supervision and project comple-
tion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects are likely
to be in line with appraisal estimates. However, the overall rate of disburse-
ment is marginally below what would be expected given the generally good
project implementation, and the Government is currently reviewing disbursement
performance on an agency-by-agency basis to identify possible reasons for
disbursement lags and to find appropriate solutions.
23.       As noted in Part I of this report, the Government's Five-Year
Development Plan highlights a strategy which focuses on the expansion of
production and employment in agriculture and industry, reduction in income
disparities, greater self-sufficiency in food and energy, and increased
development in rural areas. The Bank's future lending program has been
designed to assist the Government in achieving these objectives. Agricul-
tural and rural development will account for the largest part of future
lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs to increase
the productivity and incomes of small farmers. However, the program provides
for several needed new initiatives, including support for strengthening the
national agricultural extension service through the recently approved loan
and a first loan for developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed areas,
where there is substantial rural poverty. Increased assistance will also be
provided for integrated rural development projects whch will support the
Government's objectives of redressing regional imbalances in income.
Substantial assistance will also continue to be given to industry with



- 8 -
considerable attention given to expanding the development of labor-intensive,
small and medium industries outside of the Metropolitan Manila area. The
share of the lending for social sector projects is expected to continue to
increase primarily as a result of greater emphasis on construction of urban
water supply and sanitation systems and further assistance for slum upgrading
and low-cost sites and services projects. The Bank Group will continue to
provide support for improving the quality of education and for expanding the
Government's population program in rural areas. While the Bank Group will
continue to provide support for transportation and power infrastructure needed
to support the Philippine development effort, the share of Bank lending for
these sectors will decline somewhat in the years ahead primarily because
alternative sources of financing are available to finance a large part of the
power generation program.
24.       As noted in Part I, the Philippines has experienced a serious
deterioration in its international terms of trade in the last several years
which has necessitated substantial foreign borrowing. While the overall
level of debt remains manageable, the Philippines will need to obtain some
foreign assistance on concessional terms in the near term to support its
expanding development program. In view of this consideration, the per capita
income of the country and the generally good management of the economy, a
limited amount of IDA financing has been included in the Bank Group's overall
lending to the Philippines.
25.       This is the eighth loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year. A loan for medium industries development is expected to be
ready for presentation soon. Loans for rural development and education
projects are in advanced stages of preparation, and may be ready for pre-
sentation in the first half of the next fiscal year.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
26.       Rapid population growth remains one of the most serious problems
facing the Philippines over the next two decades. It affects all aspects of
the Philippine economy, seriously undermining the country's efforts to
provide adequate levels of education, housing, employment, food and health
care to its people. Although in recent years there has been some decline in
the average annual rate of population growth, from 3% in the 1950s and 1960s
to 2.7% by 1975, and probably 2.5% by 1978,/1 the potential for sustained high
population growth rates remains great because fertility levels are still
high, the population is relatively young, and mortality levels (particularly
for those under the age of five) should and are expected to be reduced
further.
Demographic Trends and Prospects
27.       Seven censuses conducted between 1903 and 1975 show that the
population of the Philippines has increased more than fivefold - from 7.6
million in 1903 to 42.3 million in 1975 to an estimated 45.5 million in 1978.
/1 The demographic information presented in the text differs somewhat from the
Social Indicators Data Sheet in Annex I (page 1), which is currently being
updated to reflect more recent data.



- 9 -
Crude birth rates remained relatively constant through the 1950s and 1960s at
a level of 45-50 per 1,000 population. In 1975, the crude birth rate was
estimated at 37 per 1,000 down from the 39-43 per 1,000 estimated in 1970.
28.       This decline in the crude birth rate was due mainly to later age of
marriage, an increase in non-marriage, and some fertility decline in urban
areas where family planning services have been available since the early
1970s. In rural areas, people still marry young and few practice contra-
ception. Total marital fertility has remained almost unchanged on average
between 1958 and the early 1970s (around 9.6 children per married woman of
reproductive age). Crude death rates declined steadily between 1948 and
1960, but are still relatively high at 10.4 per 1,000 in 1975. Since the
late 1960s, mortality reduction has been less pronounced. Rough estimates of
infant mortality suggest a decline over the period 1950-1965. However,
analyses of data between 1968 and 1973 show no evidence of a decline in that
period. This explains in part the slower decrease in total mortality in
recent years. Presently, one-fourth of all deaths are those of children
under one year. Malnutrition levels are alarming, as about 78% of all the
children surveyed in 1977 were shown to be malnourished. High fertility
contributes to existing health problems: large family size and insufficient
spacing of pregnancies contribute to low standards of living, low nutrient
intake, low productivity and a continuously increasing burden on the health
services.
Population and Health Policy
29.       Because population growth and attendant socioeconomic pressures
were recognized as serious constraints in reaching medium- and long-term
development goals, the Government adopted a national population policy in
1970 as part of its overall economic development strategy. The objectives of
the National Population Program were to reduce the annual population growth
rate to 1.6% and reach a total population size of no more than 70 million and
a net reproduction rate of 1 by the year 2000. These goals, while ambitious,
are achievable if program efforts already begun can be improved and sustained.
This long-term goal was restated in the Five-Year Philippine Development Plan
(1978-82). Improvements in socioeconomic conditions as stated in the Plan,
particularly in health and nutrition levels, are also expected to contribute
to lower fertility and mortality and, probably with a time lag, considerably
lower population growth rates.
30.       During the 1960s, the family planning service delivery was carried
out mostly through the private sector.  In 1967, the President of the
Philippines signed the UN Declaration on Population, recognizing population
growth as a major consideration in long-range socioeconomic planning. In
1968, a small unit for maternal and child health and family planning was
created in the Ministry of Health (MOII). Shortly thereafter, in 1969, the
Commission on Population (POPCOM) was created to plan, coordinate and fund
various activities in the population field as a research and advisory body.
In 1970, acting upon POPCOM's recommendations, the Government launched a
national population program aimed at reducing the high rate of population



- 10 -
educational programs to encourage the adoption of family planning methods,
coordination of relations with international organizations concerned with
population problems, and responsibility for ensuring that all acceptable
family planning methods are made available to the public. POPCOM's role,
which initially consisted of policy-making, monitoring, and evaluating the
population program has expanded over the last four years as POPCOM has become
directly involved in organizing and helping local governments run family
planning services delivered by non-health field workers. Furthermore, POPCOM
has had, since its inception, difficulties in gaining acceptance from the
agencies it is supposed to coordinate. This is due in part to managerial and
technical weaknesses aggravated in recent years by a high turnover of pro-
fessional staff, but it is also the result of a lack of clear policy guidelines,
overall plans and strategies, and weak support from higher Government levels.
Government support and POPCOM's organization are now beginning to improve.
Recently the Government has restated that POPCOM should remain as a coordinating
body, while local governments and other participating agencies should gradually
assume full responsibility for implementing the various parts of the program.
This transition will take some time and should be carefully undertaken in
order to avoid disruptions in the field activities.
31.       The Government decided in the early 1970s that the delivery of
family planning services should be integrated into the Government's health
care delivery system. The Ministry of Health, in time, became the principal
source of family planning services (by 1977 MOH was providing services to 64%
of all family planning acceptors in the country). In 1975-76, under the
Restructured Health Care Delivery System (RHCDS), supported by the first Bank
project (Loan 1035-PH), the MOH redistributed family planning functions among
the health team members to achieve better utilization of doctors and nurses
through the delegation of certain health care functions to auxiliary personnel.
Some progress has been made thus far (about 45% of the MOH health staff has
been retrained), but much remains to be done to extend services to the
one-third of the total population (mostly rural) who now lack access to
health and family planning services. The Government has decided to test
further innovations in low-cost health care in several provinces based on
strategies for primary health care endorsed by both the World Health Organi-
zation (WHO) and UNICEF.
Achievement and Constraints
32.       As of end-December 1977, there were almost 3,000 public and private
family planning clinics in the country, 672 sterilization centers and 21,500
Barangay Service Supply Points. The family planning services provided by the
national program have contributed to the decline in the birth rate in the
1970s as a result of the cumulative increase in the number of contraceptive
users. The nationwide contraception prevalence rate increased from an
estimated 15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978. Compared with most countries with
fertility reduction programs, this improvement over a five-year period is
impressive. However, other countries in East Asia (some with older programs)
have prevalence rates from 30-75%. The trend in new program acceptors, whose



- 11 -
numbers increased until 1974, leveled off between 1974 and 1976 and the
annual number of new acceptors declined by almost 10% in 1977. The average
number of new acceptors per clinic is declining, apparently because the
couples eager to practice family planning have already been recruited. This
is the pattern experienced by many national programs, which can be remedied
only by intensive and effective motivational programs and improved coverage.
33.       Data on contraceptive method mix between 1971 and 1976 show that
new acceptors increasingly favored condoms while the proportion accepting
pills and IUDs declined. This shift to less effective methods was most
marked between 1971 and 1974. One reason for this trend was the expansion of
the program to rural areas where the shortage of adequately trained health
staff reduced the willingness of women to accept methods such as IUDs and
pills that, although more effective, may produce side effects. It is
important to note that since 1975, the average number of months of effective
protection has been increasing due to the introduction of sterilization.
Acceptance of this method of contraception rose from almost 17,000 in 1975 to
42,000 in 1976 and 69,000 in 1977. Female sterilizations constitute almost
90% of the cases.
34.       In the area of service delivery, by 1977 about 30% of the country's
4,800 doctors and 4,300 nurses worked in public health. Although the annual
output of medical, nursing and midwifery schools is theoretically adequate,
there are problems of uneven distribution of health personnel throughout the
country. The Government is aware of this problem and is committed to taking
remedial action, but realistically this situation can be changed only over a
number of years. This makes the potential for using para-professional
workers more important. An inter-ministerial committee is preparing guide-
lines on the use of para-professional health workers by governmental agencies,
including whether and how much these cadres should be paid.
35.       In January 1977, the President of the Philippines commissioned a
Special Committee, headed by the Commission on Government Reorganization, to
undertake a comprehensive review of the population program to determine the
causes of the downward trend in new acceptors, and to find solutions to the
organizational, managerial and technical weaknesses in the program. The
final report of this review, which was submitted to the President in
November 1978, offers a sound evaluation of policies and program activities,
and makes valuable recommendations on major policy, program and research
directions. It includes significant recommendations on POPCOM's organization
and specific program strategy questions which have mostly been accepted by the
Government and are reflected in the program that the proposed project would
support. In December 1978, the population situation was discussed as a
special subject at the Bank-sponsored Consultative Group meeting on the
Philippines. The Bank and other population donors presented their views on
the strengths and weaknesses of the program, and future directions for external
assistance. The President has instructed POPCOM and participating agencies
in the population program to prepare a five-year national population plan to
implement the recommendations of the Government's report.  It has been agreed
that this plan, already partially completed, would be made available to IDA



- 12 -
for review and comment by December 31, 1979 and by March 31, 1980 the Govern-
ment would consult with the Association on a timetable for implementation of
such plan (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
36.       The present health and family planning delivery system of the
MOH has a number of administrative and organizational problems. These
include: (a) over-centralization in planning, management and decision-making;
(b) existence of many offices/bureaus/units at the central level, with no
clear definition of functions; (c) scarcity of adequately trained professionals;
(d) inadequate technical and administrative support, which contributes to
inefficient utilization of resources, inadequate training and supervision of
personnel, logistics and supply system failures, and inadequate outreach of
the health personnel into the community; and (e) weak coordination of MOH's
programs with those of other relevant ministries.
37.       Recognizing these problems, the MOH decided that a functional
analysis of the health delivery system would be carried out in 1979 to
identify the weaknesses of the health services and to suggest remedies.
This study is being financed under an amendment to the first Bank-financed
population project.
Financing
38.       Currently, the public sector has responsibility for providing
health care services to about 67% of the population of the country, but
reaches only half that number. One-third of the population, mostly in urban
areas has access to private medical care. Health services in the public
sector are financed primarily from the national budget. Health ranked
fourth in total new Government appropriations in 1978, with 4% of the total
national budget. Of the total Government health appropriation, 82% went to
the Ministry of Health; the remainder went to small health programs carried
out by other Governmental agencies. The private sector spends about the same
amount as the total public health sector, mainly for medical care services.
39.       Until 1973, external assistance for population activities accounted
for more than 60% of the total program financing. In 1977, the share of
foreign assistance had declined to about 45% of total expenditures. This
proportion is expected to level off at about 20% in 1982. The main external
donor has been the United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
and the next largest contributors have been the Bank and the United Nations
Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA). The Government contributed $44 million
through 1977. The main external financial assistance received for the
health programs in the Philippines in recent years has been through the first
Bank-assisted population project. Also, two other Bank-assisted projects -
one rural and one urban development project - have health components which
provide buildings for main health centers and barangay health stations. The
next largest health contributor has been USAID, in the past mainly for
the nutrition program and, more recently, for health and family planning
services.
40.       POPCOM has organized three projects (with USAID assistance) designed
to provide family planning information, education and communication (IEC)
services through non-health field workers to rural areas with limited or no



- 13 -
available clinic services. In practice, however, these services have often
overlapped with those of MOH. Coordination problems between USAID and Bank
population operations were experienced in the early 1970s when the national
program was starting and resulted mainly from differences in styles and
strategie- for assistance (i.e. whether the introduction of family planning
services was sufficient without a parallel improvement in the main service
delivery institutions such as MOH); these differences have been overcome and
both agencies are now working in close coordination. Remaining coordination
problems between POPCOM and MOH have been discussed in depth, and the Government
has agreed that by December 31, 1979, arrangements will be made satisfactory
to the Association, on complementarity between population field workers and
the clinic services under the Government's population program (Section 4.06
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). WHO and UN4ICEF provide technical
assistance in a wide range of areas in the health field. The latter also
provides financial support for training, equipment and vehicles for maternal
and child health care; recently it approved financing for a four-year vacci-
nation program. Throughout the preparation of the proposed project, USAID,
UNFPA and the Association have been in close coordination to ensure that
there will be no overlapping of assistance.
Bank/IDA Assistance for Population
41.       The first Bank-assisted project (Loan No. 1035-PH) was designed in
1973-74, when the population program was just starting. The Government had
identified the 140H network as a main conduit for family planning services and
adopted a policy of integration of health and family planning services.
Other donors, most prominently USAID, were providing the bulk of the external
assistance for the software aspects of the program, such as contraceptives,
salaries, research and evaluation.
42.       The first project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.
At that time the health centers built will be operating in over 200 towns
scattered in 56 of the 76 provinces of the Philippines; they will serve as
referral points for midwives who work in rural barangays surrounding the
centers and will provide services to persons living nearby. The 5,000
midwives hired through the project are trained and posted in rural barangays.
Nine of the scheduled 12 regional training centers are now operating, housing
trainees and teaching staff for in-service health and family planning courses.
43.       The impact of the first project on health improvement and fertility
reduction will be measured on a continued basis through the Management
Inforaation System (MIS) established under the project. The first such data
are expected by mid-1981. Although there are still organizational and
technical shortcomings in the two agencies that the project was designed to
assist (MOH and POPCOM), the environment for improving their programs has
definitely been enhanced as a result of the first project. Another result
has been that a strong and constructive dialogue has been established not
only between the Bank and the two implementing agencies but also between



- 14 -
POPCOM and MOH, and among international and bilateral agencies assisting the
population program. Also, a number of lessons learnt from the implementation
of the first project have contributed to the design of the second project.
In particular the proposed second project takes a much broader perspective in
terms of identifying and addressing the institutional problems of implementing
nationwide health and population programs, and provides for more comprehensive
improvements in management and manpower training, which will be needed to
ensure the longer-term effectiveness of these programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.        The project was prepared by the Government, with the assistance of
consultants and IDA missions. It was appraised in October 1978. Credit
negotiations took place in Washington in April/May 1979. The Government was
represented by a delegation chaired by His Excellency Eduardo Z. Romualdez,
Philippine Ambassador to the United States. The Staff Appraisal Report, No.
2453-PH, has been distributed separately. Attached as Annex III is a Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet.
Project Concept
45.        The proposed project is designed to assist the Philippines in its
efforts to reduce fertility levels over the next five years and, at the same
time, to decrease infant mortality and malnutrition among children and
improve the health status of semi-urban and rural populations. There are
four general considerations that have determined the design of the project.
Firstly, the design is based on the premise that fertility reduction,
improved child survival and better family health are interrelated events. An
initially important factor in stimulating family plannning practice, for
example, is informing parents about how to raise healthy children. Improve-
ments in the provision of health services and health education may therefore
be significant in making the practice of family planning widely acceptable. A
second assumption basic to the design of this project is that health services
are an effective way to deliver family planning services, and that to improve
these services it is necessary to address the major problems and constraints
of the parent health system. A third consideration is that, apart from the
direct effects of improved health and family planning service on fertility
reduction, there is need for support and institutional development of the
coordinating structure of the national population program (POPCOM) at the
central, regional and local levels in order to ensure more effective policy-
making, planning, coordination, and evaluation of all population-related
activities. A fourth aspect taken into account is that widespread parti-
cipation of informed and knowledgeable communities is as important to the
improvement and expansion of health and family planning services as are more
and better facilities and personnel. Personnel training and information,
education and communication (IEC) activities are thus essential components of
this project. The project will assist the two main agencies involved in the
population program: POPCOM, the "umbrella" coordinating body, and MOH, the
main family planning service provider. The arrangements for project



- 15 -
implementation take into account the strengths and weaknesses of the overall
health/family planning program and, specifically, the experience gained from
the first Bank-assisted project, as well as the recommendations of the
Government's recent review of the national population program.
Project Description
46.       The project focuses on the requirements of POPCOM and MOH in
carrying out their longer-term programs, and includes the following:
Part A. Commission on Population (POPCOM)
(a) constructing, furnishing and equipping seven POPCOII regional office
buildings, contraceptive warehouses and vehicle maintenance
workshops;
(b) equipment for Information, Education and Communication (IEC),
training and Management Information Systems (MIS) for central,
regional and provincial population offices; and vehicles to
ensure adequate transportation for population program personnel;
(c) other development costs including:
(i) advisory services to support the improvement of population
MIS, research, IEC and training activities;
(ii) international and local fellowships, study tours and special
courses for population staff;
(iii) design and production of population IEC materials, and the
carrying out of research studies and evaluation;
(iv) architect and construction management consultant fees;
(d) incremental recurrent costs, including salaries for project
administration and incremental activities; travel, per diem and
materials for training, IEC, MIS and population research activities;
vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance; distribution of
IEC materials; and
(e) innovative activities, i.e. population activities which would enhance
the fulfillment of project objectives and would be identified at a
later stage of the project as important complements to the POPCOM
program.
Part B. Ministry of Health (MOH)
(a) constructing, furnishing and equipping 75 health centers and
915 barangay health stations;
(b) equipment for health, IEC, training and MIS activities in central,
regional and provincial health offices, materials and vehicles
for health training, IEC and service delivery;



- 16 -
(c) other development costs including:
(i) advisory services for MIS, IEC, training, logistics and
primary health care design;
(ii) architect and construction management consultant fees;
(iii) international fellowships for health staff;
(iv) design of prototypes for and production of health IEC materials
and evaluation of primary health care activities; and
(v) seed funds for primary health care schemes;
(d) incremental operating costs, including salaries for project adminis-
tration and incremental activities; travel and per diem for training,
IEC, MIS, and research activities; vehicle and equipment operation
and maintenance; and distribution of IEC materials; and
(e) innovative activities, such as health activities which would enhance
the fulfillment of project objectives and would be identified at a
later stage of the project as important components to the MOH
program.
Implementation
47.       Realistically, it will be many years before the health and popu-
lation programs of the Philippines are fully developed to provide consistently
high quality services to the entire population. A significant beginnning has
been made toward this goal and the proposed project is intended to build upon
that base. It is not feasible to have all important decisions taken before
committing additional funds. These key actions which will be needed for
implementing the project effectively have been agreed with the Government.
They are shown as conditions of the credit and are timed to take place as soon
as ongoing work will permit.
48.       Administration and implementation of Parts A and B of the project
will be the separate responsibilities of POPCOM and MOH, respectively. As
mentioned in para. 45, these are the two main agencies responsible for
coordinating and implementing the population program. The project has been
designed to complement the programs of both agencies, emphasizing the
strengthening of the institutions in parallel with improved and expanded
motivational and service activities. The complexity of the proposed project
reflects the difficulty of the problems being addressed.  To augment the
overall plan that has been prepared and to facilitate project execution,
both POPCOM and MOH will provide to the Association for consultation, a copy
of their annual plans for IEC, training, MIS, research and primary health
care, construction and procurement not later than September 30 of each
project year (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       As noted in para. 30, POPCOM has had major difficulties in providing
adequate leadership and coordination for the population program. The Government
is committed to strengthening POPCOM and has taken a number of steps in this



- 17 -
direction. A recent salary increase for POPCOM's personnel has significantly
removed constraints for recruiting qualified staff in POPCOM and most key
leadership positions have now been filled. The Government has agreed to fill
the remaining positions of Associate Director for Planning and Chief of
Research, apnoint project coordinators, and complete an analysis of further
staff requirements and job classification system in POPCOM in accordance
with a mutually acceptable timetable (Section 4.03(b) of the draft develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The implementation of the agreed actions should
ensure that POPCOM has the capacity to carry out its program and the project
effectively. Furthermore, POPCOM's financial staff has recently been reorga-
nized into a single Finance Division (in the past, several separate finance
units had been set up to handle funds from different external sources). It
was agreed that the Government would entrust responsiblity for all financial
matters related to Part A of the project to POPCOM's Finance Division (Section
4.03(a) of the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       As noted in paras. 36 and 37 of this report, MOH needs to strengthen
its capabilities and is currently undertaking a financial/managerial study
which is expected to lead to substantial reform. The Government has agreed
to furnish the Association the result of said functional/managerial study of
its health services, now under preparation, by December 31, 1979, and, by
April 30, 1980, to consult with the Association on a timetable for implement-
ing the recommendations of the study (Section 4.07 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement. Agreement was also reached on actions designed to ensure
effective project implementation which include the appointment of project
coordinators, the creation and filling of additional positions, and other
organizational changes (Section 4.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Construction under the project (both for POPCOM and MOH) would be implemented
by an MOH Construction Unit which would be placed under the Project Coordinator
for Part B. The Government would appoint a suitably qualified chief for the
construction unit by December 31, 1979.
51.       MOH's Financial and Management Service and POPCOM's Finance Division
would design and implement, by December 31, 1979, accounting systems for the
project, acceptable to the Association. Adequate staff assistance for the
project coordinators would be provided in both POPCOM and MOH. There have
also been major weaknesses in the Government audit. The Government agreed
that independent auditors acceptable to the Association will audit the project
accounts (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement). Furthermore, an
understanding was reached with the Government that it would request its
Commission on Audit to engage consultants to assist in improving the annual
auditing of this' project, if the Association finds that such improvement is
necessary in the future.
52.       Special implementing arrangements would be necessary to utilize
local participation in the construction and operation of the 915 barangay
health stations to be constructed under the project. Construction of barangay
health stations would be undertaken by the Ministry of Local Government and
Community Development through force account or directly by the local communities.
The Ministry of Local Government and Community Development, in cooperation



- 18 -
with the project construction unit of MOH, would carry out public information
campaigns for construction of barangay health stations, by utilizing its
regular contacts with barangay development councils. The project includes an
experimental primary health care component which would rely on community
health workers to provide services in rural barangays. These workers will be
paid by the communities. The project would provide seed funds to each of the
4,000 barangays to start income-generating projects whose profits would then
be used to support the local cost of the primary health care scheme, parti-
cularly salaries for the workers. The project would also provide seed funds
to start cooperative village level pharmacies. Both approaches have been
tested successfully in the Philippines. Training and supervision of the
community health workers would rest with the MOH rural health staff.
UNICEF would provide technical assistance and other costs for the social
preparation of the communities. The Ministry of Local Government and Community
Development's community workers would undertake community organization for
income-generating schemes. The Government gave assurances that it would
develop a policy on primary health care which would set guidelines on the use
of barangay health workers, including whether and how these cadres should be
paid, and that it would make such policy available to the Association not
later than April 30, 1981 (Section 4.09 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
53.       A timetable for the implementation of each project component
has been discussed and agreed with the Government, and this would be used
by POPCOM, MOH and the Association as the basis for monitoring the physical
progress of the project. Project evaluation would be done through the
Management Information Systems of POPCOM, MOH, and the National Nutrition
Council. These information systems would provide both regular health and
family planning service statistics, separated by project and non-project
facilities, as well as special surveys as needed, for all project components.
Evaluation of the IEC component would be facilitated by a survey in 1980 to
collect baseline data on the impact of health and population IEC programs.
Evaluation criteria for the training components of POPCOM and MOH have been
developed by the POPCOM/MOH Joint Training Coordinating Team.
Cost Estimates and Project Financing
54.       The total estimated project cost is $72 million, of which $24.2 mil-
lion, or 34% is the estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange component.
The cost estimates include physical contingencies estimated at 10% of base
civil works costs, and professional fees and price contingencies averaging
19% of the base cost plus physical contingencies. Price contingencies were
calculated on the assumptions that: (a) average construction costs would
increase by 7% per year; (b) all other salaries and maintenance costs would
increase by 5% per year; and (c) prices of all imported goods would increase
by 6% per year during the project period. The average cost of foreign
advisory services is estimated at $5,000 per man-month and local advisory
services at $1,500 per man-month. Project cost estimates also include
salaries for incremental staff, which amount to about 5% of total project
cost.



- 19 -
Incremental Recurrent Costs
55.       Government recurrent expenditures for health, population and nutrition
in FY78 amounted to about P 1,096 million (about $148 million), or 3.2% of
the total national budget in FY78. The project would add about P 7 million
(about $946,000) at 1978 prices to MOH's annual current expenditures (or
6.5%) and P 15 million (about $2 million) to POPCOIM's annual current expendi-
tures (or 8% of total POPCOM current expenditures) in 1985 after completion
of the project. The increase seems reasonable in view of the priority
assigned by the Government to these programs and the considerable expansion
of service included under the project.
Project Financing
56.       The IDA credit of $40 million would finance the foreign exchange
cost of $24.2 million and local cost of $15.8 million (33% of total local
cost). The justification for local cost financing is set out in paragraph 19
of this report. UNICEF would provide local costs of organizing communities
to participate under the primary health care component of the project
under its regular agreement with the Government. Those costs (expected not
to exceed $200,000) are not included in the project cost. The Government
would provide the balance of project costs of $32 million from budgetary
resources.
Procurement
57.       To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment, vehicles, and
materials would be grouped in appropriate packages of not less than $80,000.
Contracts estimated to cost $80,000 or more would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for Procurement; contracts estimated to cost less than $80,000 equivalent,
but not exceeding $800,000 equivalent in total, would be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with Government
procedures acceptable to the Association. To allow for reasonable flexibility,
contracts for small items costing not more than $8,000 but not exceeding
$200,000 in total, and any contract for the supply of tools and materials for
constructing barangay health stations, would be procured on the basis of
prudent shopping after inviting quotations from at least three suppliers. A
preference margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the
prevailing customs duty, whichever is the lower, would be extended to eligible
local manufacturers when comparing evaluated bids obtained through international
competitive bidding.
58.       Where reasonable, civil works would be grouped in appropriate bid
packages on the basis of geographical locations by region or province as
suitable. The contracts would nonetheless be relatively small and would not
be suitable for international competitive bidding. Therefore civil works
contracts would be awarded after local bidding in accordance with Government



- 20 -
procedures acceptable to the Association. Foreign contractors would not be
excluded from bidding, and all contractors who participate in bidding would
be required to have prequalified. Construction of health centers or barangay
health stations would be implemented by force account in cases where no
reasonable bids are obtained, or where communities are unable to implement
part of the work; the total amount of such work would be about $5.2 million.
Disbursement
59.       Disbursement would be made at the rate of 50% for civil works upon
submission of normal documentation. Disbursements for furniture, equipment
and vehicles would be at 100% of the c.i.f. cost of direct imports, 100% of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods and 65% of the cost of
locally procured items. Disbursements for advisory services, professional
fees, studies, fellowships, seed money, and materials would be at the rate of
100%. Disbursements for IEC contracts, innovative activities, travel and per
diem allowances would be made at the rate of 50%. Payments for work under-
taken by force account will be made against certificates of expenditure,
whose content and form of certification have been agreed upon.
Benefits
60.       The national targets to increase the percentage of couples practicing
contraception from 27% now to 50% in 1987, and the resulting decline sought in
the annual average population growth rate from 2.5% in 1978 to 2.1% in 1987
and 1.6% in 2000, will require a considerably expanded, intensified and more
effective program effort. The additional goals of the health sector of
reducing: (i) infant mortality; (ii) the incidence of second and third
degree malnutrition among pre-schoolers; and (iii) morbidity from communi-
cable diseases will be difficult to achieve unless health service coverage is
expanded during the next decade to the remaining one-third of the population
presently not served. This project would contribute significantly to
increasing the scope and depth of both the population program activities and
the health services.
61.       This project, if successfully implemented, would have a major
impact on the Government's health and family planning programs, institutions
and policies, through its provision of basic support to programs of critical
importance to the Philippines. Although it is not possible to estimate
reasonably the number of births and deaths directly averted by this project,
the primary health scheme would provide coverage for an additional 3.3 mil-
lion persons, and access to services from new health facilities to another
3 million persons. The increase in coverage through these two components
represents about 40% of the population now outside the reach of adequate
health services.  The project strategy of combining a strengthening of the
formal health system with the introduction of primary health care schemes is
designed to maximize the yield of both efforts. In addition, the insti-
tutional impact and effect of the program on both POPCOMI and MOH should
enable them to provide the needed policy direction and level of services to
achieve the health and fertility goals of the Government.
Project Risks
62.       The risks involved in this project are mainly related to the success
or failure of Government authorities to render strong support to the organiza-
tional changes and managerial and technical upgrading which have been agreed



- 21 -
upon by the Government and the Association as necessary conditions - both in
POPCOM and MOH - for successful implementation of the rural health and
population programs. There are, however, favorable signs that such
sustained support will be forthcoming. Government officials have repeatedly
indicated that primary health care, population and nutrition are important
priorities for the Government's development efforts and that they recognize
the need for a major upgrading of both POPCOM and MOH to achieve these goals.
A functional analysis of the Ministry of Health, which should result in
recommendations for revisions of present job descriptions, functional respon-
sibilities and, possibly, reorganization, is already under way with financing
from the first Bank-financed population project. The improvements required
in POPCOM consisting of upgrading salary levels, and managerial and technical
capabilities of the staff, which are crucial for the effective implementation
of the program, have already started, but should be carefully followed up to
prevent future recurrence of past problems. Another risk that should not be
ignored relates to the community participation approach to be tested in two
components of this project - barangay health station construction and primary
health care. Problems and constraints surrounding this approach have been
recognized and carefully weighed during project design. It was concluded
that the potential benefits in terms of increased community outreach and
increased possiblities for providing cost effective services make such a risk
worthwhile.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of the
Philippines and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1979



-   22  -                                                    A ., xI
or S
PHIIIPP!41S - SACIAI. INTIrCATOpS DATA SHOFT
REFERENCE GROUPS CADIJSTED AVR.AC.ES
LAN- ArAA (THOLSANt SQ. KM.)                                                         - 0OST RIFCPNT PtTIMATFI
W.W         )AIr .o                                                             SAM!          SAMVE     NEXT H81HER
A.R(CLLTHR.AL       8S.b                                    MOST RF I F       GT ctGE.APIIIC    INCOME      LNCImrP
1960  Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATI 'b         REf;ION Le   C.R01:? Ld    CR(t.P LE
CGP PtR CAPtTA (VSS)                     160.0         230.0      450.0             616.0       432.3         867.2
ENFACR CfssV4PFTIOI PER CAPITA
(lI 4)r.RA.S OF CUAL EQUIVALENT)       117.0        301.0      326.0             522.0        251.7        578.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TUTAL PVPK .ATLON, MID-YEAt
OIILLL10SI                           27.4          36.9       64.5
LURBAN PPLIATION (PERCENtT O  TOTAL) 25.3             27.6       29.8              30.1        24.2          46.2
POPULATION DEISITY
PER SQ. KM.                           91.0        123.0      148.0              156.8        42.7          50.8
PP.t SQ. Kl. AGRICULTULAL LAND       360.0        *72.0      520.0             794.8         95.0         93.3
POPULATION ACE STRUCTJUtR (PERCENT)                                                                                                                       -
0.14 IRS.                             45.7         45.6       42.9              60.8         44.9         42.9
15-64 TnS.                             51.6         51.6       54.2               55.4        52.8         53.5
65 nRS. AND AROVE                       2.7          2.8         2.9               3.2         3.0           3.5
POPULATION GROWT  RATE (PERaCNT)
TOTAL                                  3.0          3.0         2.8               2.3         2.7           2.5
UIRAJ                                  4.0          4.0         3.9               5.1         8.8           4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RAT  (PER TRtaSAND)         45.0         43.0        35.0              34.6        42.2          37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOuISAND)        15.0          11.0        9.0               8.7        12.4          10.8
GROSS ILEPRODLCTION RATE                 3.5  jf       3.3        2.4               2.6         3.2           2.5
FAMILT PLAINCiR
ACCEPTORS. ALNNUAL (TROUSANDS)          ..        191.7      750.8
USERS (PERCENT OF  AtALED WUD!CEN)    ..            2.0       25.0               22.1        14.2          20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
hRDra oF FOOD PRODUCTIO
?ER CAPITA (1970-100)                 99.1        100.0      110.8              106.8       104.3         107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLT 0f
CALORIES (PERCENT O0
REQUIRDVErTs)                      83.0          86.0       87.0             108.7         99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER OAT)              IA.O         45.0       50.0               57.7        56.8         63.0
o0  WHIC8  ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0 LA      22.0       19.2               17.0        17.5         21.7
CTILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          9.0           6.6        7.5               4.0         7.5           8.0
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 81RTH (YEARYS)    49.4            57.0        60.0              59.0        53.3          57.2
INrANT KORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               84.6         81.0         0.0              44.0        82.5          53.9
ACCESS TO SAtE WATER (PtEtCINT OF
POPULAT ION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..       p9.0               21.9        31L.1         56.8
UtLBAN                                  ..                      1.0              58.3        68.5          79.0
RI.AL                                   ..           *.      3l.                  9.8        18.2          31.8
ACCESS TO EXCILtTA DISPOSAL (PEIRCENT
oF POPLLATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..        56.0              28.6        37.5          30.9
U(RAM                                   ..           *.       76.0               66.6        69.5         45.4
ItL1                                    .          40.0       44.0               14.8        25.4          16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                         ..            315040 103.1                  9359.2        2706.8
OPOULATION PER bUIRSINC PERSONI           ..       3840.0    499o0.0             1520.2      2762.5        1462.0
POPULATIIN  PER HOSPITAL RED
70;TAL                              1180.0        850.0      81n0              657.1        786.5        493.9
LC82                                    ..            ..         . A145 .5                  278.4         229.6
OIL                                     ..            .. .A.                  1011.8       1358.4        2947.9
ADMISSICOS PEt  W)SPSTAL 8D               ..            ..         ..              19.0         19.2         22.1
HOUS I NC
AVEtCE  SIZE OF HOUSEtOLO
ToTAL                                  5.8           5.9         ..               5.2          ..5.
UN(AI                                   ..          6.2          ..               5.2          ..           5.0
tURIAL                                  .           5.8                           5.4                        .4
AVt ACE 71L.IElR Of PERtSOS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          2.3          ..                ..          ..           2.0
UAIBAN                                   -          2.1          ..                ..         2.3           1.5
E RAL                                   ..          2.4          ..                ..          ..           2.7
Acrss In   .CTnRCIcT (PERCENT
or D117!mNs)
TvTAL                                 17.0         213.0       31.0              19.1        28.3          64.1
tRs9A                                   ..         60.4          ..                ..           ..         67.8
tRRAL                                   *-           7.0       10.0                *-         10-3         34.1



-  23  -                                            ANIrX I
F-!a  of 5 P.iSea
TA81QP IA
PHILIPPINY.S - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHFFT
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PFILIPFENES                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATF) -
SAME        SAMfE    NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b  STMLATE lb      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATInN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLKARY:    TOTAL                 95.0        114.0     105.0             95.6       75.8        99.8
FEKALE               93.0        113.0     103.0            93.7        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 26.0         50.0      56.0             43.3       17.7        33.8
FEMALE               25.0        50.0       57.0            38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SEO)NDARY) 14.0           ..        ..             11.3        7.4        12.8
PUPIL-TEAaiER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0        29.0      29.0             30.0       34.3        34.9
SECONDARY                         27.0         33.0      31.0             25.4       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9        82.6      87.0             84.0       63.7        71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         8.0       8.0              9.3        7.2        12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        22.0         72.0        *-             97.6       71.1       104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        10.0      17.0             21.8       14.1        28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  17.0        14.0      18.0             25.9       16.3        45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6           ..       7.6              4.6        1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10100.0      12400.0   16200.0
FErMALE (PERCENT)                  34.4        33.1      35.3             33.2       28.0        25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             61.0         55.0      50.0             48.4       54.1        46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.2         15.8      14.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8        36.6      35.3             38.9       37.8        33.8
MALE                                 52.1        48.6      47.1             48.6       50.3        48.1
FEMALE                               27.4        24.4      23.3             28.4       20.9        17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.5       1.3              1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8           ..        ..             17.3       19.5        23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2         54.0      53.3             45.6       48.9        52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2          3.6       5.5              6.5        5.9         4.3
LoWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9         11.7      14.7             17.3       15.7        13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                *-          *-     250.0            140.8      155.9        191.9
RIURAL                              ..           ..      190.0           112.8       97.9       193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      132.0              ..      143.7       319.8
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..            76.8       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..       39.0            27.7       22.9         19.8
RURAL                                ..          ..       44.o            40.4       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-seighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in oach group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Moot Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita, 1976);  Le  Intermediate Middle Income
(5551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;  IR  Av. 1960-62.



- 24 -                                                               ANE
_NNX 
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                  *9ASG  S  of S plges
Hostj   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geomsetric means, excluding the extrem   values of the indicator end the most
populated counatry io each group.  C-oveag  of countries emag the indicators depends on avilability of data and is not uniform.  Sue to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to watar and excrete disposal, housing, income distribotion and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric meansa without the exclusion of extraw values.
LANDl AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                               Population per hospital bad - total, urban. end rural. - Population (total,
Total - Total aurface areg comprising land area and inland waters,                          urban, and rural) divided by their reepective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Mo0st recant estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospite1 end re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                      habilitationo centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie follow,                                                                               at least oue physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are nor incloded. Rural hospitals. how-eve, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - iNP' per capita estimates at currant market prices,                    cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician  (but by a medical as-
cooltdby sa   conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, or,eidwife, etc.) which offer in-patieot acc-datloc sod
1960, 1970, eod 1977 data,                                                                provide a limited range of medical facilitie..
Admissions per hospital bed - Trotal number of admissicons to or diochorges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, potroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal sqivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Averase esie of household (persons per ho ..shold) - total, urban, and rural--
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household conesits of a group of individuals who share living qoartern
Total pouain    id-veer (million.).   As of July 1; if not available,                       and their main mueals.  A boarder or lodger may or say not be included in
average ,uofitwo ne'nd-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                         the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percen.t of total) -Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vay.
tion; different definitions of orban areas may effe-r   mp.arbility                    Avar.as  number of_ Persons par room- total, urban, and  rasrl - Averoo  oo
of dato smong coun tries,                                                                 her of persons per room  in all, urban. snd rural occupied conv-tiono.l
Population density                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwelling  exclude non-permanent structures cod
Per  mu. k=. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     unoccupied parts.
of total orea.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, orban, and rural -
Per sq. ho. ogriculture land - Computed as shove for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quertore as percentoge
only,                                                                                     of total, urban, sod rural dwellings reopective1y.
Population sac structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 yearn), sod retired  (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year populotion.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                     Primary school - total,..ad female - Tots1 sod female enrollment of all ages
growth raico of total1sod urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level es peroontages of reopectively primary  -hro-c-gr
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                     populations ; no rmalIly ilocldes children aged 6-11 pears but adjusted for
Crude birth rste (per_thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                        different lengths of primary education; for cruotrien with univerool ed.-
mid-year population; ten-year srithmetic avra,ges ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent oince some pupils are below  or
1970 sod five-year avrage ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thouaand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                      Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year populotiom; ten-year arithmetic averags.  coding in 1960 and 1970                    tiosraquiros at Ie...t four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and fiv-yeor average ending in 1975 for most recest estimate.                             video generel vocational , or t-ehr training instructions for pupils
Greon reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                     usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are gene.rally
in her norml seproductive period if she c.opriences present age-                          excluded.
specific fectility rates; ouo..lly five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrio1, or other programs which operate iodepend.rrliy
rally pl-aoing - acccptors, annuo  (thousandx) - Annal. number of                           or as depart men ts of necondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-rontrol devires under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacbar rstio - primary, and secondary - Tdol students enrolled is
planning program.                                                                         primary end sec.onary levels divided by numbers of teac.hers is the corro-
Fomily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percetage of                           spondiag levels.
married women of child-bearing ego (15-44 years) who usac birth-control                Adult literacy frae (percent) - Literate adults (shin to read sod wrtn) a
devices to oil married women in saeaegroup.                                               a perrcentage of total adult population agod 15 yosr  and over.
FOOD ADil NUTRITION                                                                      CON-SUMPTION
Tnde. of food production per fcalpita (d1970-100) - Index oumber of per                  Passenger cars (per thouaand population) - Passenger car  coprise motor cats
capita annual production of allfoo  comeditiem.                                         seating less than eight persons; e-sludes amb.lance, hearses  and military
Per capita supply of csloriex (percent of requirements) - Computed from                   vehicles..
energy equivalent of net food soppliem available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
Per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcaatm to general public per thousa.nd of population; escludos onlicensed
esports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers is coun.tries and in yearn when registreti-s of radio sets woo is
q-atiti.a used is food process.ing, andlse  in distribution.  Re-                       effect; data for recent yeers nay not he coparble since most  -nutries
quicements wore estimated by PAO based on phymiologicel needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mel activity sod health considering enviroomental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand nopslation) - TV receivers for broadcast to gener.A
weights, age ond sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                    public per thousand population; e.cludas unlicen..od TV receivers in coo-
cent for w-s  te borhusehoid level,                                                       trios and in years when registration of TV onto wa  is effect.
Per capita supply of protein (ares per day) - Protein content of per                     Newspaper circuistios (per thousand population) - Shows the overage circulo-
capita set supply of food per~ day.  Net supply of food ix defined as                     tiuo of "daily general interest new.. sper", defined so a periodical publi-
above.  cequirements for all contries established by USDA provide for                     cstion devoted primarily to recording general new s,  It is conidered to
minimum allowance of 60 grams of totai protein per day and 20 grana                      be "daily" if it oppesro at least four tines c winkh
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 groas should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendanc.e per capits per year - B a.ed on tho number of tickers
These standards are lower that those of 70 gras. of total protein and                     sold during the year. including admissions to drive-is cienas..  an d mobile
23 gram  of animal proteis n   an  average for the world, proposed by                     units..
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capits protois  upyfrmaia   and pulse - Protein supply of food                      EMPLOYMENT
der ived from  asimais and pulses in gram   per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousan.d) - Annual deaths per thou-                   forces and unemployed but eacludiog houseive, scodonts, etc.  Defiol-
and in age group 1-4 years., to cbildren in this age group.                               tions in various coutries are not coparable.
Female (pnrcent) - Pemale labor rorce so percentage of total labor forc..
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in Earning, forestry, bunting and fishing
Life. epetaooyat bir~th(ears) - Average number of years of life                             am perce.tago of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Induatry (percent) - Labor frore in mining, construction, nasufacturing asd
and 1975.                                                                                 electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rste (per thousood) - Annal deaths of infants under                     Participation rate (percent) - total, male, end fensle - Total, male, and
sine year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female lebor force so percentages of their respective popyaiotlns,
Access to safe water (Percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    Thes  are ThOis adjusted participation r-tec reflecting af--n
Numbor of people (coral, urban, and rural) with rea..os.ble access. to                    structore of the popsiotton, and 1Osf time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 ccd 65 ond use  to
uncntaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs.                        the labor force in age group of 15-hi pears.
and sanitary omlia) as percentages of their respective populatioSe.
Is an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                      INqCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rua-                    Percentage of priv-te income (both in rah and bind) reciv-d by richest 
-onb le aceso hat house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                          percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 2) Percent, and poorest 4i percent
imply tha'tcethe ohousewife or members of the household do not have to                    of households..
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the faily's
water needs.                                                                          POVERgn TARGET iGRosiP
tccon. tc encrats disposal (percent of population) - total, urban. and                   Estimated absolute poverty incoma level (US$5 per capita) - urban and cral -
rural - Number of pooplo (tota.1  urbas, and rural) served hyamorts                          Absolute povety i_ooms .. lee  i  chat ic-u  1-ro  below which   minimal
disposal so percetages of their respective populations,   Excreta                         nutritionally adequate diet plus essential cnn-food requiremen.ts  in not
disposal nay In,clude the collection and disposal, with or without                         affordable.
trsatmeot, of hu-a  nortaad waste-wter by water-bone sytstms                           Estimated relative poverty income level (US) per capita) - urba  an-d -"rlI
or the use of Pit privies and similar installations,                                      Relative poverty income leve  is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by namber of practicing                        per capita personal incme of the country.
phyniciaso qualified fron a sedical school ar tuiversity level.                        Estimated  .popultion below poverty imoons level (percent) - urban and rural1
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male  and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relstive poor" whichever is greater.
assistantnus.
Economic and Social Pots Divinico
Economic Anslynis and Prcjncci... Dnpcrtmect



- 25 -                                             ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
SELECTED ECONOMIC DATA
Actual                          Prelim.      Projected        Growth Rates (%)
1972     1973     1974     1975      1976     1977     1978     1980      1985     1972-78      1978-85
National Accounts (billions of pesos at 1972 prices)
GDP                             56.3     61.2      63.8     68.8     74.2    78.5       81.9    93.8    136.6          6.5        7.4
Terms of trade adjustment        0.0       1.5      1.3    -0.1      -1.8    -3.0       -2.5     -1.6      0.0          -          -
GDY                             56.3    62.7       65.1     68.7     72.4    75.5       79.4     92.2    136.6         5.9        8.0
Imports - volume                10.3     10.8     12.9      13.5     13.7     14.6      15.6     16.6    24.3          7.1        6.5
Exports - volume                 9.9     11.3      10.0     10.0     11.8     14.9      14.3     15.7     23.4         6.3        7.3
Exports - adjusted for
terms of trade                 9.9     12.8     11.3      9.9      10.0     11.9     11.8      14.1     23.3        3.0        10.2
Resource gap                     0.4    -2.0        1.6      3.6      3.7       2.7      3.8      2.5      1.0          -           -
Consumption                     45.2     48.1     51.1      53.5     55.4     57.8     61.0      70.6    100.9         5.1        7.5
Investment                      11.6     12.5      15.7     19.0     20.6     20.4     22.1      24.1     36.6        11.3        7.5
National savings                10.7     14.4      14.7     15.2     16.8     17.5      18.2     21.1     35.0         9.2        8.5
Domestic savings                11.2     14.5      14.1     15.4     17.0     17.7      18.4     21.6     35.6         8.6        9.9
Sector Output (billions of pesos at 1972 prices)
Agriculture                     16.0     17.0      17.5     18.2     19.7     20.5      21.4     23.7     30.2         4.2        5.0
Industry /a                     17.4     19.6     20.7      22.7     24.9     26.8     28.5      33.9     55.6         8.6       10.0
Services                        22.6     24.3     25.9      27.5     29.0     30.6     32.0      36.2     50.8         6.0        6.8
Prices (1972 = 100)
Export price index               100       141      223      214      197      196       214      249      353
Import price index               100      124       197      215      233      245       260      278      354
Terms of trade index             100       114      132      100       85        80       82       89       95
Selected Indicators
ICOR                             4.5      2.4      4.8       3.1      3.5      4.8       6.0      3.7      3.2
Import elasticity                0.93     0.55     4.61      0.59    0.19      1.13      1.58    0.98      1.03
Average savings rate            19.5     23.0      21.4     21.9     22.3     21.8      21.4     22.5     25.6
Imports/GDP                     18.3     17.6     20.2      19.6     18.5     18.6     19.0      17.7     17.7
Investment/GDP                  20.6     20.4     24.6      27.8     27.8     26.0     22.0      26.1     26.8
Resource gap/GDP                 0.1     -3.2       2.5      5.2      5.0      3.4       4.6      2.7      0.7
Value added               Labor force              V. A. per worker
Output, Labor Force & Productivity in 1976                       Peso million        %      Million             %      Pesos                x
Agriculture                                                  38,440         29.0         8.1           50.0      4,746             58.0
Industry                                                     44,934         33.9         2.3           14.0     19,537           238.8
Services                                                     49,148         37.1         5.0          31.0       9,830           120.2
Unemployed                                                       .           .           0.8            5.0
Total/Average                                             132,522        100.0       16.2          100.0       8,180           100.0
Public Finance                         1972         1975          1976         1977          1978
(National Government)           ------------ (%  of GDP in current prices) - -------
Current revenue                 12.2         15.0          13.9          13.2         14.2
Tax revenue                      9.7         12.0          11.6          11.2         12.1
Current expenditure             13.0         13.2          12.3          11.6          11.4
Current surplus                  0.8          1.8           1.6           1.6          2.8
Capital expenditures             1.9          3.0           3.5           3.4          3.7
/a  Includes mining, manufacturing, construction, and utilities.
East Asia and Pacific Region
May 1979



- 26 -                                                                   ANNERX 1
Page 5 of 5 pag.es
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AID EXTBRNAL ASSISTANCE
(U5$ millio)
Actual                             Prelim.                   Projected /e
1972      1973      1974       1975      1976      1977       1978      1980      1981       1982      1985
Sumary of Balance of Payments
Exports (GNFS)                                  1432      2445      3357       3076      3330      4021       4155      5793       7028      8238     12197
Imports (GNFS)                                  1484      2057      3784       4116      4383      4788       5251      6821       7713      8712     12715
Resource balance                                 -52       388      -427      -1040     -1053      -767      -1095    -1027        -685      -475      -519
Net factor service income /s                    -125      -114       -54      -201       -323      -320       -352      -508       -595      -673      -810
Interest (net)                              -93        -59        15       -53      -185       -240      -257       -393      -470      -535       -626
Direct investzent income (set)              -32        -55       -69      -148       -138       -80       -95       -115      -126      -139       -184
balance on goods 4 services                     -177       274      -481     -1241      -1376    -1087      -1447      -1534     -1281      -1147     -1329
Transfers (net)                                  186       246        276       318       269        260       315       347        382       420        560
Current Account Balance                         11       521      -205      -923      -1107      -827    -1132       -1167      -899       -727      -769
Private direct inve-t-est (set)                  -22        64         28       125       144      216         160        193       212       234        310
Public MLT loan disbursements                    235       184        180       349       869        903      1049      1142       1241      1321      1521
Repaymetsv                                  -78       -108       -68      -118       -165      -163      -419      -481       -499      -520       -738
Net disbursements                            157        76       112       231        704       740        630       662       742        801       783
Other MLT loan disbursements                     137       196        276       331        538       326       726       845        508       359       562
Repayments                                 -154      -201       -244      -205        -202    -381       -522       -437      -549      -584       -506
Nlt disbursements                           -17         -5        32       126         336      -55       204        408       -41      -226       -244
Total MLr luau disburne=ents                     372       380       456        680       1407     1229       1775      1987       1749      1680      1783
Repayments                                 -232      -309       -312      -323        -369     -544      -941       -918    -1048      -1104    -1244
Net disbursements                           140         71       144       357        1040      685       834        770       701        576       539
Net drawings us IMF                                7       -21       -11        110        214        79      -20        -70         13       -85       -80
Shbrt-t-rr capital (net)                          56        74       231        102        -96      311        147       195        222       253       375
Capital transact..  ns, .e.i.                   -98       -45       -77        292        -35    -300         116         0          0         0         0
Change in net reserves (- - increuse)            -94      -664      -110        521        160    -164          55      -200      -250       -250      -376
International reserves (end-year) /b             551      1038      1504       1358       1640     1524       1883      1800       1900      2000      2800
Grants and Loan Commitments
Official grunts                                  0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total public loans                             422.0    232.4    840.1        753.7   1894.0   1294.7
IBRD                                         29.5       85.7    217.5      114.0    226.0       317.5
IDA                                          10.0       12.7       9.5       0.0        0.0       0.0
Other multilateral                           43.3       53.6      83.1    106.0        64.2    207.3
Governments                                 275.5       63.4    199.5    182.3    391.6    294.3
Of which CPE                                0.0        0.0       0.0      13.2        5.9       0.0
Suppliers                                     2.0        1.9      69.0      37.3       68.1      73.7
financial Institutions                       61.7       15.1    244.5    314.2    776.9    272.3
Bonds                                         0.0        0.0      17.1       0.0    367.2    129.7
Other MLT loans                                130.0    128.0    306.0    283.0    472.0    495.5
Mem.rsodme Items
Grant element of commitments                    28.0      28.4      22.3       16.4       8.8      14.7
Average interest (%)                             5.4       6.1       6.5        7.4       8.3       7.9
Average maturity (years)                        17.3      24.2      18.2       16.7      13.1       15.3
Medi-m and Long-Term Debt (disbursed only)                                                                                                    Outstanding
Total debt outstanding (end of period)  1828.7   1910.2   2070.7   2362.0   4063.0   5149.9                                            DOcc-ber 31, 1977
Including undisbursed                        2584.5   2625.9   3506.3   3755.6   6496.0   8109.0    Esternsl Debt                        Amount   Percent
Public debt service                          -149.6   -214.5   -187.7   -230.2   -222.7   -441.9   (disbursed only)
Of which:  interest                         -51.6    -31.3    -43.1        -73.4    -87.1   -215.2    IBRD                               403.7       13.5
Other MLT debt service                       -167.6   -185.8   -247.5   -239.2   -300.0   -357.1             Bank Grsup /d                  432.6      14.5
Total debt service                           -317.2   -400.3   -435.2   -469.4   -522.7   -799.0             Other multilateral             155.4        5.2
Governments                    873.1      29.2
Debt Burden                                                                                                    Of which centrally
Debt service ratio                              22.1      16.4      13.0       15.6      16.0       19.9       planned economies              0.0       0.0
Debt service ratio /c                           24.5      18.8      15.3       18.1      18.1      21.4      Suppliers                       86.5       2.9
Debt service/GDP                                 3.8       3.8        3.0       3.0       2.9        4.0     Financial institotions         914.9      30.6
Public debt service/government revenue          17.0      13.9        7.6       8.1       7.9      15.7    Bands                            523.1      17.5
Total public MLT debt    2,985.1         100.0
Terms                                                                                                          Other MIT debt               2,164.8       72.5
Internst on total DOD/total DOD                  6.1       3.6       4.0        5.4       4.1       6.4     Other MLT debt (incl.
Total debt service/total DOD                    17.7      24.7       17.3      16.9      10.5       15.8       undisbursed)               2,489.7      83.4
Total Public debt (incl.
Dependency Ratios                                                                                                undisbursed)               5,619.3    188.2
Grass disbursemenrs/inpurtn  (GNFS)             25.1      18.5       12.1      16.5      32.1      25.6       Total MLT debt (incl.
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)                      3.7      -1.0       0.6        5.1      20.2       10.5        undisbursed)              8,109.0     217.7
Net transfer/gross disbursements                14.9      -5.3       4.6       30.8      62.9      41.0
Imposure
IBRD disb./gross total disb.                     4.7       4.6        5.8      12.6       6.5       9.5
Bank Group dinb./gross total disb.               4.8       4.8       7.5       13.9       7.3       9.6
IRD DOD/total DOT                               7.8       7.8       7.9       10.1       7.8       9.3
Bank Group DOD/total DOD                         7.8       7.8       8.3        9.6       8.4      10.0
IBRD debt service/total debt svs.                4.4       5.1       5.4        5.5       6.6       5.6
Bank Group debt service/total debt svs.    4.4             5.1       5.4        5.6       6.7       5.6
/a Remittances of Filipinos employed abroad are included in "Transfers."
/b Grass reserves of the Central Bask ("International reserves", IFS).
/c Including net direct investment income.
/d  Excludes IFC.
7e These projections were prepared in May 1978. Revised prnjectinns sill be prepared following the return of an
economic mission in Jane 1979.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
May  1979



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of April 30, 1979
Loan or
Credit                                                            Am.o.n  ($ oillion)
Nueber       FY        Borrower          Porpo.e              Baok    IDA    Sodlsborood
Sixiteen loans and two creditn folly dinborned               252.4    19.5
720-PH     1971                         Rice Proressing
and Storage       14.3                2.1
809-PH     1972    National Power
Corporatioo      Power                22.0                1.2
349-PH     1973    Republic of the
Philippines       Education II                 12.7       1.0
891-PH     1973            "            Fisheries            11.6                3.0 /a
939-PH     1973            '            Ports                 6.1                0.5
950-PH     1973            "            Second Righoays   68.0                   5.5
984-PS     1974                         A-rora-Per..anda
Irrigation         9.5                3.3
998-PH     1974                         DFC-DBP I            50.0                4.2
1034-PH     1974    National Power
Corporation      Poae-                61.0                5.3
1035-PH     1974    Republic of the
Philippines       Population          25.0               14.8
1048-PH     1974            "            Shipping             20.0               12.0
1052-PH     1974    Philippine
Nationol Bank   DFC                   30.0               10.1
1080-PH     1975    Republic of the   Tarloc
Philippioes         Irrigation        17.0                0.1
1102-PH     1975                         Rural
Developoent       25.0               17.9
1120-PH     1975                         Small and Mediuo
"oduntrieo        30.0                2.6
1154-PH     1976                         Magan
Irrigotion        42.0               23.5
1190-PH     1976                         DFCG-DBP 11          75.0               19.6
1224-T-PH   1976                         Education III        25.0               18.3
1225-PH     1976                         Li-entonk II         20.5                9.1
1227-PH     1976                         Chico Irrigation  50.0                  42.3
1272-T-PH   1976                         Manila Drhar         10.0                7.2
1282-PH     1976                         Manila Urban         22.0               15.8
1269-PH     1976                         Second Grain
Processing        11.5               11.2
1270-PH     1976                         S Sncond Fisheries  12.0                 7.5
1353-PH     1977                         Third Highways    95.0                  84.4
1367-PS     1977                         Jalaur Irrigation 15.0                  11.1
1374-Pg     1977                         Fourth Education  25.0                  20.4
1399-PH     1977     C-tcral Bank of   Fourth Rural
the Philippines    Credit             36.5               25.3
1414-PH     1977   Ripublic of the   National Trriga-
Philippines         tion Syste.s
hnltprnnesrnt     50.0               42.2
1415-PH     1977                         Protn= ial lition
Water Supply    23.0                 20.0
1421-PH     1977                        SInoad Rural
De-elop tent-
Land Settle-e-t 15.0                 14.4
1460-PH     1977    National Povor
Corpyraltin       Seventh Power       58.0               57.5
1506-PH     1978    Republic cf the   Smallholder Tree
Philippines        FPrming             8.u                8.0
1514-PH     1978    Philippine
National  oahk  DFC (PDCP)            30.0               3U.0
1526-PH     1978    Republic of the   S-cond National
Philippione         IrrigaItor
Syntemo
I.pron-oent      65.0                64.2
790-PH     1978    Republic of the   Rural Infra-
Philippirne         stratrtre                  28.i.     28.0
S.8-PH     1978    Republic of the
Philippiene       Educati-o            2.0                1.98
1547-PH     1978    Republic of the   Roral Electri-
Philippines         fiati-on          60.0               60.0
1555-PH     1978    Philippine
Nati-nal Bank   DFC-PI80              15.0               13.4
1567-PH     1978    Republic of tho
Philippione       MAGAT II           150.0              113.8
1572-PH     1978    Repblic of the   Industrial
Philippioeo         Invest-eot III  80.0                 71.7
1615-PH     1978    Reublin  of the    Maoila Water
Philipplnen         Water Supply-ll 88.0                 88.0
1626-PH     1979    Republic of the   National
Philippines         Et lenion         35.0               35.0
1639 PHa   1979    Republic of the   Magat River
PhilippInes         Multipurpose      21.0               21.0
1646 PH*   1979    Republic of the   Small Farmer Dev.
Philippioes         Land Sack         16.5               16.5
L647 PH-0  1979    Republic of the   Sacood Urban
Philippines         Development       32.0               32.0
1661 PH-tO  1979    Republic cf the   Highways IV            100.0              5O0.0
Philippicne
Total                                            1,929.9    60.2  1,2302.2
of which hao been repaid
(Bask and third parties)                         132.5         -
Total new outstanding                            1,797.4    60.2
Anount sold                         23.9
of which has been repaid
(third partieo)                   13.1             10.8        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior tn e-change rate
adjustenctal                                  1,786.6    60.2
Total oodisbursed                                1,173.2    29.0  1,202.2
Ua Undisbarsed aocunt is $193.08.
0   Effective April 25, 1979.
E0 iffective April 26, 1979.
500 Not yet offectlie.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of April 30, 1979
Fiscal                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Year                      Company                           Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines                                 15.0     4.4      19.4
1967          Manila Electric Company                        8.0        -       8.0
1967          Meralco Securities Corporation                   -      4.0       4.0
1970          Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Company                            4.5        -      4.5
1970 & 1972  Mariwasa Manufacturing, Inc.                    0.8      0.4       1.2
1970          Paper Industries Corporation of the
Philippines                                    -     2.2       2.2
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation                6.2      2.1       8.3
1972          Marinduque Mining and Industrial
Corporation                                 15.0       -      15.0
1973          Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3       2.2
1974          Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5        -       1.5
1974          Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.  1.5          0.5       2.0
1974          Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2        -       1.2
1975          Philippine Polyamide Industrial
Corporation                                  7.0        -      7.0
1976          Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2       2.8
1977          Acoje Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2       3.5
1977          Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5       -        3.5
1978          Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.  2.1           -        2.1
Total gross commitments                       73.1    15.3      88.4
Less sold, acquired by others,
repaid or cancelled                         30.2    12.0      42.2
Total commitments now held by IFC             42.9      3.3      46.2
Undisbursed                                    5.1        -       5.1



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to finance a program for the development and modern-
ization of the rice and corn processing industry. Originally the project
was restricted to rice and to the private sector, and the emphasis was on
the construction of new integrated large capacity rice mills. Due in part
to poor harvests and in part to large cost increases for rice mills, the
demand for subloans for new integrated rice mills turned out to be small
and, as explained in the President's Memorandum, dated June 8, 1972 (R72-40),
the Loan Agreement was amended to shift the project emphasis to rehabilita-
tion of existing rice milling facilities. The Loan Agreement was further
amended in April 1974 to: (a) expand the scope of the project to include corn
in addition to rice, (b) enable local governments and the National Grains
Authority to borrow funds under the project, and (c) streamline procurement
procedures (President's Memorandum SecM74-244 of April 15, 1974). As a
result of these amendments, the project is now generally progressing satis-
factorily, although mounting arrears are a source of concern and DBP is now
stepping up its supervision and collection efforts to deal with this. Bank
loans for subloans have been fully committed; however, because of the long
construction period of the large subprojects, full disbursement will be
delayed until mid-1979 and the Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan No. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is financing the construction of two dams and trans-
basin diversion channels to divert water from the Aurora basin to the Panta-
bangan reservoir to provide year-round irrigation for about 26,000 ha of rice
lands in the Peharanda area of Central Luzon, which is also to be improved
and extended under the project. The work on the dams and transbasin diver-
sion channels has been completed. Diversion from one of the two dams started
in July 1975, about one year ahead of schedule. There were initial delays
in the award of contracts for the service area improvement works and following
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
award some additional delays were experienced due to an extended period for
irrigation water delivery in 1977. These setbacks have caused a two-year
delay in project completion which is now scheduled for June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 891    Fisheries; $11.6 Million Loan of May 21, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The loan is fully committed; only about US$0.1 million remains
to be disbursed before the Closing Date (June 30, 1979). Nearly 15,000 ha
of brackish water fishponds are being developed or rehabilitated with the
help of subloans. Loan approvals also include 35 fishing vessels with
tonnage varying between 70 and 130 tons, one ice-plant and one slipway. DBP
has initiated the preparation of the Completion Report. Loan collections
have deteriorated during the last few months, and in spite of intensive
collection efforts mounted by DBP in the recent months, the desired result
has not so far been achieved. DBP is now being asked to study in depth the
position of all borrowers whose accounts are overdue fDr more than six
months, and to take suitable measures in each case to rectify the position.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 27, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is assisting the Government to improve 21,000 ha of
land under three existing national irrigation systems and to extend irrigation
to 13,000 ha of additional land in Central Luzon. Upgrading of project roads
and construction of new roads also are included. In addition, the project
provides for a groundwater irrigation pilot project, a National Irrigation
Systems Improvement Study (NISIS), and a water management training program.
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining work is
under way. General progress, although slower than originally estimated, is
improving. Progress on the groundwater, water management training and NISIS
components of the project is satisfactory. Due to the necessity of adding
drainage systems not included originally, completion of the project is now
expected to be delayed until the end of 1980.
Loan No. 1102   Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is assisting the Government to carry out rural develop-
ment on the island of Mindoro. Progress in the implementation of irrigation
systems and on the improvement of the port of Calapan is now accelerating.
Progress has also been made on the Mangyan (Minority) Assistance Program,
reforestation of watersheds and drainage of schistosomiasis affected areas.
The rate of progress for road construction has now improved considerably
after delays caused by the unsatisfactory performance of a number of contractors.
Disbursements, which currently stand at 39% of projections, are lagging



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
behind physical accomplishment due to difficulties encountered in prompt
processing of force account work and in coordinating disbursement requests
between agencies. Steps are now being taken to streamline disbursement
procedures.
Loan No. 1154   Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is assisting the Government to improve and expand
irrigation on 35,000 ha of land in the Cagayan Valley of Northern Luzon.
Consultant's work on engineering and economic evaluation studies of the
proposed Magat dam and reservoir has been completed. Civil works by local
contract and force account for rehabilitation and new construction of canals,
drains and access roads are progressing well. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1225   Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976; Date
of Effectiveness: September 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Investments in pig and poultry subloans continue to dominate the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) project lending activities, with sub-
loans for beef production development lagging well behind appraisal estimates.
As a consequence the project's list of goods was recently amended to allow for
this fact. Disbursements are in line with appraisal projections but subloan
commitments are running ahead of schedule. Project funds will probably be
fully committed in early 1980 but a recent resurgence of demand for loans may
shorten the period. Repayments of principal of the majority of DBP's borrowers
under the project are still under grace but a build-up of interest arrears is
beginning to emerge. Principal and interest arrears under the first phase
project have reached about 18% of the portfolio and we are assisting DBP with
the development of an intensive action-oriented collection program to be
implemented during the next three months. Thanks to government approval of
increased salary scales, DBP has significantly improved its staffing position.
Various improvements to DBP's organizational structure have been instituted
and other organizational developments are under consideration. The Bank is
involved in a continuing dialogue with DBP on various institutional issues.
Loan No. 1227   Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Erosion Control Study and input-output monitoring program are
progressing satisfactorily. NIA' s force account operations on canals and
access roads has improved following delivery of construction equipment. All
of the major contracts have been awarded, and it is expected that construc-
tion of irrigation works will proceed smoothly. Road construction is now
proceeding satisfactorily, although it began substantially behind schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1269   Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is providing long-term credit through the Development
Bank of the Philippines to assist in modernizing and expanding the Philippine
grain processing industry. Initial progress under the project is satisfactory.
Subloan commitments are expected to begin shortly, now that Loan No. 720 is
fully committed.
Loan No. 1270   Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the Develop-
ment Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan approvals
in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up considerably
in the first half of 1978. As of June 30, 1978, 398 fishpond farmers had
been assisted with construction of new fishponds or rehabilitation of their
existing ponds. Eight 9OGT fishing vessels, six 45GT fishing vessels and two
ice-plants with cold storages have been financed. It is expected that the
project will be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1367   Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
NIA's force account operations on access roads and drains has
improved following delivery of construction equipment in December 1978. The
detail design for a major part of the works has been completed and many
contracts have been awarded. The overall progress of the project is satis-
factory.
Loan No. 1399   Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The slow commitment rate continued to improve to 50% of appraisal
estimates, but recovery of the shortfall to date is no longer considered
possible within the original three-year implementation period. The shortfall
is due in large part to the sharp decline of demand for four-wheel tractors
and the absence of compensating growth in demand in other subloan categories.
Heavy damages inflicted by recent typhoons may further delay commitment. The
Central Bank is now conducting a reassessment of the lending program, and is
expected to submit to the Bank a proposal recommending necessary changes in
project design which would expedite the commitment but, at the same time,
would ensure the effective use of project funds.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1414   National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project; $50 Million
Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Initial delays in assembling design staff have now been overcome.
With the delivery of equipment in September 1978, the pace of construction
has accelerated. Overall progress of work is about 10% of total project
works.
Loan No. 1421   Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The previously reported budget release and staff recruitment
problems are being steadily resolved. With staff now taking up field positions,
progress is accelerating, and although the project is currently 14 months
behind anticipated schedule, physical matters should be completed within the
project period. Institutional progress continues to be satisfactory, noting,
however, that the innovative nature of the project will continue to illustrate
problem areas and issues. Project impact will become more apparent during
the next year, but there is already an increase in confidence at the settlement
level illustrated by a significant increase in participatory actions by
farmers.
Loan No. 1506 Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million Loan
of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Eight months after effectiveness, operations had started in all
project components except research, but progress has been lagging behind
schedule; the DBP smallholder tree farming component has met with a slow rate
of farmer enrollment due to problems with legal requirements, land availability
and farmers' reluctant attitude arising from lack of previous experience.
However, DBP remains committed to the project and is working on ways in which
to stimulate progress. In the Abra pine plantation component insufficiency
of Government funds has caused the program of vehicle acquisition and building
construction to fall a year behind schedule, but it is expected that the
delay will be made up to a large extent during 1979. Disbursements have not
yet begun, due to the early stage of the project and the initial delays.
Loan No. 1526 Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: $65 Million
Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys and mapping have been completed for about
60% of the project area and design of project works is underway. The
construction work started recently is primarily devoted to service
roads and structures along main and secondary canals. Overall progress
of the project is satisfactory.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Credit No. 790      Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: Date of Effectiveness:
July 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply and health stations has started. Consultants have been engaged to
undertake the design of village roads for four of the six project provinces.
Contracts for the improvement of one port will be awarded soon. Overall
progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH   The Magat River Multipurpose Project-Stage II; $150 Mil-
lion Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government through completion of Stage
II of this project, to provide water to irrigation systems and improve
systems operation on 102,000 ha. Preconstruction works have been completed
and works on dam foundation grouting, drainage gallery tunneling and river
diversion tunnels are under way and expected to be completed this year. The
civil works contract for the main dam has been awarded and the contractor is
completing the advanced stage process of mobilizing staff and equipment.
Loan No. 1626-PH   National Extension Project; S32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
March 27, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will assist the Government to strengthen effectiveness
and expand coverage of the national extension service through the provision
of facilities and equipment, and institutional changes. The loan was signed
on December 21, 1978, and was declared effective on March 26, 1979.
Loan No. 1639-PH   Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: April 25, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project will assist the Government to increase agricultural
production and consequent employment opportunities though irrigation and
power development in the Cagayan Valley. The loan was signed on January 26,
1979, and was declared effective on April 25, 1979.
Loan No. 1646-PH   Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Proceeds of the loan will be relent to the Land Bank of the
Philippines to provide small farmers with credit to increase productivity and
to generate off-farm employment. The loan was signed on January 26, 1979 and
was declared effective on April 25, 1979.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939    Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1973; Closing
Date: July 15, 1979
The project is being carried out under two civil works contracts,
one each for General Santos and Cagayan de Oro. The work at General Santos
was completed in December 1978. At Cagayan do Oro, 75% is completed and the
remainder is expected to finish in May 1979. Traffic operations at the
project ports continue satisfactorily. The Government is considering the
establishment of a National Port Advisory Council to assist PPA in formulating
policies. Tariff adjustment proposals have been drafted based upon a study
of port services costs. Good progress is being made on feasibility studies
at five provincial ports in preparation for a proposed third ports loan in
early FY81.
Loan No. 950    Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
While over 98% of the construction program has been successfully
completed, one of nine national roads is far behind schedule due to difficulties
experienced by the contractors in prosecuting the work. For this reason,
project completion is expected to be delayed 24 months beyond the appraisal
schedule. UNDP-financed road feasibility studies were completed in June 1975,
detailed engineering for the Third Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) in August
1976, and detailed engineering for the proposed Fourth Highway Project in
October 1977. Weighbridges for axle load control have been procured, civil
works for permanent weigh stations are virtually completed, and the axle load
control program is being implemented. The total cost of the project has
increased substantially (about 32% above the appraisal estimate) due to the
oil price increases in late 1973, delays in project execution, and continuing
inflation. Disbursements have reached 90% of the loan amount but the present
Closing Date of June 30, 1979 will require extension to allow time for final
disbursements after project completion, expected in mid-1979.
Loan No. 1048   Inter-island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress under the US$20.0 million loan for the acquisition of
used interisland ships, repair of existing ships and technical assistance has
been slow. As at December 31, 1978 only about half of the available funds had
been committed by the Development Bank of the Philippines and only US$7.0 mil-
lion had been disbursed from the loan. Uncertainties about the type of
foreign exchange risk to be borne by subborrowers and offers of cheaper
finance by new government financing institutions have delayed implementation.
Changes in administrative procedures are under discussion and may require
Board consideration in due course to resolve these matters.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1353   Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of
January 12, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Contracts have been awarded for all national roads and work has
begun. Consultants for supervision of construction have been appointed and
have established themselves in the field. The technical assistance advisors
for maintenance improvement and road restoration took up their duties in
September 1977. The training advisors began work in July 1977. The consul-
tants for the road and ferry feasibility studies began work in November 1977
and completed the studies in December 1978. Consultants for workshop design
and construction supervision began work in May 1977. Designs are completed
and bids for all contracts have been received and are being evaluated with
contracts for 8 out of 28 workshops awarded. After a delay of about 12
months, the road maintenance and restoration program is now beginning to be
implemented with planning and execution of road restoration projects under
way, procurement contracts for maintenance equipment, parts, tools and
machinery being awarded and normal maintenance activities being organized.
Overall, project costs are expected to remain close to appraisal estimates
but indications are that project execution will be delayed by about 18 months
due to the late start of some critical activities.
Loan No. 1661   Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9, 1979;
Expected Date of Effectiveness: June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This loan was signed on March 9, 1978, and is expected to be
declared effective on June 12, 1979.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224   Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Since loan signature, the project unit has made commendable progress
in implementing the textbook development program. Editorial and production
preparations have been completed for 31 titles (out of 71 to be completed by
June 1981). Some 17 titles have been printed for a total of 9.5 million
copies (out of 27 million by 1981), of which 8.2 million copies have been
distributed to schools. Project costs are close to appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1374   Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
March 25, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally on schedule, with the
exception of civil works contract awards which have been delayed by about
eight months because of delayed government clearances. Project costs are
within appraisal estimates.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
Loan No. S-8-PH Educational Radio Technical Assistance; $2 Million loan of
April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO , established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have reached Pargasinan Province, and will reach Leyte
on schedule in mid-1979. CET will most likely begin unscheduled utilization
in Mindanao during 1979. In order to provide information on the desirability
of nationwide project implementation, the pilot project includes a substantial
evaluation component which is proceeding smoothly.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282   $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Construction has been completed on the high school, health clinic,
and the "reblocking" of twenty-five blocks in the upgrading area. Fifteen
hundred new serviced sites in Dagat-Dagatan and 350 in Tondo are now being
occupied by families who are building very satisfactory dwellings by means of
self-help. The project is generally progressing satisfactorily with many of
the initial difficulties overcome and valuable lessons learned which should
hasten implementation of the remainder of the project.
Loan No. 1415   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 Million Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Work on well construction has started in two cities, and bid
documents for pipe supply and installation are 95% complete. Civil works
contractors are currently being prequalified and major construction should
start within the next few months. Overall project implementation is several
months behind schedule because of administrative delays and difficulties in
land acquisition for well sites following hydrogeological studies by consult-
ants. The preparation of feasibility studies for water supplied to 11 cities
is on schedule as is also the Manila Sewerage Design Study. The Government
is about to start training of staff in the design of community water supplies.
Loan No. 1615   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan is assisting the Government to provide safe water for an
additional four million people in Metropolitan Manila, as well as improve the
service to some 3 million who are inadequately served at present. The preparation
of design drawings, bid documents and appointment of consultants is well in hand.
Loan 1647-PH    Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
onApril 26hiW}rn was signed on January 26, 1979, and was declared effective



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 809    Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296  of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is helping the National Power Corporation to finance
the second unit of 150 MW at the Bataan thermal power plant, expansion
of the transmission system in Luzon and consultants' services. The project
was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule. Due to cost overruns,
a part of the transmission project was transferred to the Sixth Power Project.
The actual project cost as finally constructed is about UIS$59.3 million - an
increase of about US$11.0 million over the original estimates. The closing
date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to December 31,
1979 to allow full disbursement of committed funds. Credit 296-PH was fully
disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034    Sixth Power;  $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants'
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977. The trans-
mission facilities will now be completed late in 1980, more than two years
behind schedule. The revised cost of the project is estimated at US$114.1
million, an increase of about 24% over the original estimate (US$92.0 million).
The cost overrun for the foreign exchange component is US$5.2 million (9%).
The closing date of the loan has been postponed from December 31, 1978 to
June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for completion of the transmission
systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460   Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on works is slightly behind schedule. The Government
requested the Bank to waive the covenanted rate of return of 8% for 1978.
The 7.3% rate of return achieved by NPC in 1978 was a substantial improvement
compared to 1977. Tariffs in Luzon were increased by 10.5% last November
and another increase of 10% will become effective on May 1, 1979.
Loan No. 1547   Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is behind schedule due to the initial slow pace of
preparation of tender documents and delays in procurement. Progress on
procurement has been stepped up in the first quarter of 1979 and about
48% of the contracts for materials will have been awarded during April
1979.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998    Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The proceeds of the loan were relent to the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP). The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million)
has been used by DBP to finance direct imports for medium and relatively
large industrial projects. DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance
about 1,300 smallholders in a pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao.
Loan No. 1052   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The proceeds of the loan are on-lent by PDCP to financially and
economically viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commit-
ments and disbursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been
fully committed.   Overall progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1120   Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: August 31, 1979
The DBP portion ($15 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of
the loan have been fully disbursed. After a slow start, commitment and
disbursements of funds under the Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
accelerated in late 1977. However, the Rural Industrial Cooperative Program
($2.3 million) which is being implemented by the National Electrification
Administration is facing management and staffing problems because of its
experimental nature. Therefore, disbursements on this component have been
slow. The Small Business Advisory Centers program ($0.7 million) of the
Ministry of Industry has been implemented and is working satisfactorily.
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190   Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of
January 28, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The proceeds of the loan are relent by the Development Bank of the
Philippines for subloans to finance the foreign exchange components of medium
and relatively large industrial projects. The Executive Directors approved
a proposal to reallocate $25 million of the funds for small and medium in-
dustries on February 25, 1977, and an amendment to the Loan Agreement to this
effect was signed on March 16, 1977. Commitments of funds, which were ini-
tially much slower than expected due to a slowdown of investment in the in-
dustrial sector as a whole, improved in 1978. As of February 28, 1979, the
allocation of $50 million for medium- and large-scale industry had been fully



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
committed. In addition, $17.7 million had been disbursed against the allocation
for small- and medium-scale industries.
Loan No. 1514   Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 23, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
This loan is being relent by PDCP for financing the direct and
indirect foreign exchange component of capital goods and services for
productive enterprises. As of February 28, 1979 commitments under the
loan amounted to $6.5 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555   Philippine Investments Systems Organization (PISO); $15 Million
Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 12, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Proceeds of the loan are relent by PISO for financing the foreign
exchange component of capital goods and services for eligible productive
enterprises in the Philippine private sector. As of February 28, 1979,
commitments for subloans totalling US$13.5 million had been made. Since the
pace of commitment is much faster than anticipated during loan appraisal, the
loan is expected to be fully committed by early 1979. Overall progress of
the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572   Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines; $80 Million Loan of
June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are relent by DBP for financing the direct
and indirect foreign exchange component of imported as well as locally procured
capital goods and services for eligible productive industrial enterprises in
the Philippines. Of the total loan, $50 million is allocated for large scale
industries, $29.7 million for small and medium-scale industries and $0.3 mil-
lion for establishment of an institute for training executives and staff of
smaller development financing institutions. Commitments for subprojects under
the large industry component amounted to $9.4 million as of February 28, 1979.
In addition, as of the same date the small and medium industry component had
been disbursed to the extent of $1.6 million. The overall progress of the
project is satisfactory.
Population
Loan No. 1035   Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation of the project continues satisfactorily. As of
January, 1979, 15 of the 219 project facilities had yet to be started, partly
due to political problems in two regions. Contractors had completed 80% of
all construction work. Management problems within the Commission on Popula--
tion (POPCOM) are being addressed through agreements which have been reached
on organizational reform under a second population project scheduled for
Board presentation on June 5, 1979.



- 41 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project                  The project was prepared in
approximately 16 months
(June 1977 to October 1978).
(b) The agency which has prepared
the project:                            It was prepared by two project
preparation groups - one in
POPCOM and one in MOH, assisted
by local consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to
the Association; and the first Bank
mission to consider the project:        Both in June 1977
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:         October 5, 1978
(e)  Completion of negotiations:             May 4, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          September 1, 1979 (estimated)
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
A supervision mission is planned immediately following signing to
assist prompt initiation of project implementation.
Section III: Special Conditions
The fo&llowing special conditions are incorporated in the draft
Credit Agreement:
(a) POPCOM will complete the population plan of action and will make
it available to the Association for its review and comment by
December 31, 1979 (para. 35), and will take the necessary steps
to improve its financial and administration operations and to
enable it to carry out Part A of the project effectively (para.
49);
(b) MOH will take all necessary measures to ensure an effective coor-
dination in the execution of Part B of the project (para. 50); will
provide the Association, by December 15, 1979, the results of the



- 42 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2
functional analysis study of the Health services and agree with the
Association, no later than April 30, 1980, on a mutually acceptable
timetable for implementing agreed recommendations (para. 37);
and will take steps necessary to carry out Part B of the project
effectively, including designing, not later than December 31, 1979,
an accounting system for the project acceptable to the Association
(para. 51);
(c) POPCOM and MOH will reach an agreement on complementarity between
Project Outreach and the MOH clinic services not later than
December 31, 1979 (para. 40), and will provide the Association, by
September 30 of each project year, a copy of the plans for primary
health care, IEC, training, MIS and research, for review and
comment (para. 48); and
(d) the Government will develop a policy on primary health care, to be
made available to the Association by April 30, 1981 (para. 52).



IBRD 14067
JANUARY 1979
LU
Ui
Z            Z
0-              u             >
0
z
z                 =Z
0 ui
2
ui      cx_        0                        0ol0
0
(5   z                                         -Az                                                                       qw.
f                                         .5a.
O-
0-u
0 o                           ;o
0- V)
z
0
0,C)
zi
ui
Q5
6t
zl-j
A!
Z,3        -11    -t        Z'R
iz
;0-
ItE
F4 - 2 A s %:2 E31
ui
Z
CL
cc      Z
V
&Z                                  b,.p  I I I I;
A8  9 V
w W-  .4 <'juo






I BRD 14068
MARCH 1979
7-     E   0
!5
<                                                                                                                                                    77
2  2
0
(n    0  0                   <  cc
UJ           <               n
,   'o
0        < <                                                                                                                                                 -j
Z.
a                          8                       S_  -
W M;R
cc , 2  ft  >_ g 4 .5 -                        m
LL.              M  <
<
12 V  <                                   LLJ
C>Z ,Z
a
>
2
iE
\x
06
o-J o-
cx
IF
N-1
'T-
J12
I li -. 2 - . L o
00
104
<
8                                  15
0 0
0 0        o
0
0
cc w,                                                                                                a:
C,0
Z                                                                                            0
>
0
-9
'E
<               EE        'o          E' 'E
Z m
Z Z
9                                                                                              t.9    E



