Report No. PID7992
Project Name                     Malawi-Mulanje Mt. Biodiversity Conservation
Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Environment
Project ID                       MWGE35917
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
Implementing Agency
Address MULANJE MOUNTAIN CONSERVATION TRUST
P.O. Box 139, Mulanje, Malawi
Contact Person: Mr. Jones Njala
Tel: (265) 465-241
Fax: (265) 465-241
Email: MMCT@Malawi.net
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 27, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 9, 2000
Projected Board Date             April 17, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Malawi has one of the highest population densities in Africa, with an
average 170 inhabitants per square kilometer of arable land, and an
average growth rate of 2.89 (1998 estimate). Most of the population (85%)
live in the rural areas where subsistence farming is the dominant
livelihood activity. As of 1990, Malawi had a total area of 26,428 km2
forest cover (28% of the total land area) consisting of forest reserves
(7,905 km2 ), national parks and wildlife reserves (9,770 km2), and
customary land forests (8,843 km2). Due to increasing population,
insecure land tenure and pervasive poverty, many rural inhabitants see the
forests as their only options for establishing farms and for obtaining
income through sale of forest resources. Deforestation has been rapid in
recent years (ca. 2.8%/year, 1996 estimate), with much of it occurring on
customary land. However, since the forested area under customary tenure
makes up only 33% of the total, protected forests in Malawi are and will
continue to be under increasing pressure of exploitation. The capacity of
the FD to protect and manage the protected forests is greatly constrained
by its limited budgets and major staff reductions in recent years. The
GOM's newly adopted "co-management" approach, which seeks to involve
communities as partners in managing the protected areas, is expected to be
more cost-effective and to provide better results. However, both the FD
and local community members will require education, training and material
support to fulfill their roles in co-management effectively. At present,
the focus is on training FD staff in community consultation and
mobilization techniques, on delineating areas of the Forest Reserves to be
managed in collaboration with specific communities, and on assisting the
communities to develop "Constitutions" governing access to and use of
those areas and resources (these Constitutions, once approved by the
Minister, will form the basis for Reserve co-management).



2. Objectives
BiodiversityMulanje Mountain in south-eastern Malawi is the highest
mountain in south-central Africa, rising to 3002 m above sea level. There
are six different plant communities on the mountain, as the dominant
vegetation varies with altitude, relief, aspect, rock form, soils, and
incidence of fire. They range from miombo woodlands at its base to
fire-induced grassland on the plateaus, to afro-montane forests near the
summit. The afro-montane ecosystem in particular includes a large number
of endemic flora and fauna species, many of which are endangered or
threatened by extinction. This includes over 600 spp. of plants
(including 41 endemics), the largest number of forest butterflies found in
Malawi (118 spp, including five endemics), along with numerous endemic
reptiles, fish, etc.). Mulanje Mountain is also one of Africa's key sites
for threatened bird species, forming part of the Tanganyika-Nyasa Mountain
Group Endemic Bird Area. (See Annex 4 for further details). Due to its
species richness and high levels of endemism, Mt. Mulanje was identified
by the World Wildlife Fund as one of 200 global ecoregions in the world
for the conservation of biodiversity and designated as an Afromontane
Regional Centre of Endemism. The massif also serves as the source of
headwaters for nine rivers and represents an important source of timber
and other products, traditionally including the commercially valuable
Mulanje Cedar. Timber and fuelwood plantations (pine and eucalyptus)
occupy about 8t of the massif's land area, and there are currently 40
licensed pit sawyers operating in the area.Project OriginLike many similar
organizations in other countries, the Forestry Department in Malawi has
experienced severe staffing and budget constraints in recent years. This,
together with a strong movement towards democratization, has led to a move
away from a "command-and-control" approach to managing the country's
natural resources and towards one of partnership and cooperation with
local communities. In 1996 and 1997, the Government of Malawi adopted a
progressive policy framework and passed legislation which provides for the
implementation of a "co-management" approach for its 71 gazetted Forest
Reserves (including the Mulanje Forest Reserve), five National Parks and
four Wildlife Reserves. Under this approach, neighboring communities are
able to participate directly in the management of these protected areas,
including both active engagement in their protection (e.g., community
patrols and sanctions) and obtaining benefits from sustainable use of wood
and non-wood products. With assistance from a number of donor-funded
programs (including the Department for International Development
(DFID-UK), USAID and the World Bank), the Forestry Department is assisting
communities to assume their role in co-management, and also to reduce
pressure on forest resources, for example by establishing private and
community woodlots. In 1994, a group of Malawians committed to preserving
the unique biodiversity and ecosystems of the Mulanje massif established
the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust (MMCT). While the Forestry
Department's mandate includes biodiversity conservation, the primary
emphasis for co-management of Forest Reserves across the country is on
watershed protection and sustainable use of forest resources. The
objective of the MMCT, therefore, is to ensure that biodiversity
conservation receives a high priority in the management of the Mulanje
Forest Reserve. The MMCT aims to achieve this by:raising awareness of the
value and importance of the area's biodiversity within the FD and the
surrounding communities;supporting the implementation of the Management
Plan for the Mulanje Forest Reserve to ensure that it addresses key
conservation areas and needs; strengthening the capacity of FD and
-2 -



communities to implement protection and conservation activities;
andencouraging greater participation by the local communities in managing
the forest reserve and increasing the benefits they derive from reserve
resources through employment in conservation activities and co-management
of forest resources.Recognizing that biodiversity conservation is a
continuing challenge, in the face of continuing threats and pressures, the
MMCT aims to establish an endowment fund which would generate a modest but
reliable income stream to support these activities over the long term.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has recognized the value of trusts as an instrument for
providing long-term support for biodiversity conservation. It has been a
leader in supporting the establishment of conservation trusts in Africa
and has gained valuable experience through these operations. In Malawi,
the Bank has developed strong and positive relationships with
international and local NGOs and the donor community involved in natural
resource management. The value added of the Bank's support lies in
providing technical support for preparation and implementation,
supervision capacity, strengthening linkages between MMCT and the Ministry
of Environment and Natural Resources, and mobilizing additional support
from bilateral donors and other partners.A number of bilateral donors and
other organizations (e.g., DFID, GTZ, DANIDA, EU, OXFAM) are currently
involved in supporting improved forest resource management and sustainable
livelihoods in the Mulanje area. GEF support will ensure that
biodiversity conservation is an explicit objective of the natural resource
management in this globally significant ecosystem. The threats to the
biodiversity in this region are persistent and growing. Providing GEF
support in the form of a Trust will ensure the continued financial
resources to manage the biological resources and address these threats.
4. Description
The project has five major components (including capitalization of the
Trust Fund itself) which will benefit from GEF financing. Each component
will provide the necessary technical and financial assistance to develop
institutional and management capacity within MMCT, within the Forestry
Department and, through the Program Officers and collaborating NGOs,
within the local communities.
(a) Trust Administration. The Trust Administration Unit (TAU) will be
established in Mulanje and will consist of an Executive Director, three
Program Officers, an Accountant, a Secretary, as well as support staff.
These individuals will be the only full-time employees of MMCT. The TAU
will be responsible for (i) developing the program content for each of the
three components Biodiversity conservation, Research and Monitoring;
Environmental Education; and Forest co-management and Livelihoods; (ii)
working in collaboration with the FD and suitable NGOs to carry through
the three programs in (i) above; (iii) submitting annual work plans and
budgets to the TMB for approval; (iv) disbursing approved funds and
ensuring that proper disbursement, procurement and supervision procedures
are followed; (v) maintaining financial records and accounting/reporting;
and (vi) ensuring ongoing monitoring and evaluation of all work receiving
MMCT funding.
(b) Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring. Under this
component the project will support activities to identify, protect,
manage, and monitor the status of biodiversity and ecosystem health in the
-3 -



Reserve, and to reduce the impacts of human pressures on the ecosystem and
its biological resources.
(c) Environmental education. A primary objective of the MMCT is to raise
awareness of the value and importance of the MMFR within the FD and the
surrounding communities.
(d) Forest Co-management and Sustainable Livelihoods. The purpose of
this component is to increase the share of the benefits from the Reserve
going to local communities and to ensure that this is on a sustainable
basis.
(e) Conservation Trust Fund. The purpose of the Conservation Trust Fund
(CTF) is to provide sustainable in-country funding for biodiversity
conservation of the Mulanje Massif and surrounding area, in the context of
ecologically sustainable development.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 8.02
6. Implementation
Project coordination and implementationMulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
(MMCT). The MMCT is a charitable entity incorporated in Malawi as a Trust
under the Trustees Incorporation Act. MMCT is exempt from tax and is a
private organization operating independently of government. The mandate
of the MMCT is not to participate directly in the reserve management, as
this is the role and responsibility of the Forest Department and local
communities. Rather, the MMCT will promote effective and biodiversity
compatible management of the reserve by supporting: education/ extension;
co-management in pilot areas of the forest reserve; capacity building for
the Forest Department and communities; and, by supporting specific actions
and activities identified in the Reserve Management Plan. The MMCT's
management structure provides for the participation of all the
stakeholders - government departments, statutory bodies, local and
international NGOs and the local communities concerned with the
conservation, management and utilization of the natural resources of
Mulanje Mountain. The proposed long term financial mechanism supported by
the project will operate as an endowment fund with the initial endowment
capital provided by the GEF in the end of year 2 of the project. Fund
raising efforts to attract additional capital into the endowment fund will
be the responsibility of the Trust Administration Unit (TAU) Executive
Director. The Trust will be governed by an independent MMCT Board
composed of individuals of high public standing drawn from both civil
society and government. The Bank will be consulted in the event that
there will be any proposed changes to the composition and selection
criteria of the MMCT Board. Endowment funds will be invested off-shore and
managed by a professional asset manager. A professional Trust
Administration Unit to be headed by the Executive Director will be
established under Phase I. The TAU will be responsible for the day-to-day
operational activities of the Trust and report to the MMCT Board. The TAU
will be responsible for project financial management, reporting and
auditing, following procedures as reflected in the Trust Administration
Manual. Project accounts will be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit report will be submitted to the
-4 -



Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Detailed
arrangements are reflected in the Trust Administration Manual. Other
agencies/partners/co-financiersForestry Department (FD) . The Forestry
Department is currently responsible for the management of the MMFR, but it
lacks the required capacity and resources to manage the reserve and
surrounding areas and coordinate activities effectively. It is envisaged
that the project will assist the Forestry Department's capacity so that
the Department can strengthen its core functions, particularly relating to
revenue collection, monitoring of timber licensing, extension and
co-management, and implementation of management activities specifically
targeted to biodiversity conservation.DFID. DFID provided ca. $800,000 to
support the development of the management plan for MMFR and other project
preparation studies and project activities. This support was directly
linked to the development of the GEF project proposal. It included
consultancy support for elements such as the institutional issues and
social data.In terms of future co-financing, DFID is currently
implementing a 5-year (ca. 25 million dollars) program of support to the
Forestry Sector in Malawi. If successful, this will form part of a longer
term program of DFID support. The program currently includes support for
privatization, decentralization and the more effective delivery of
services at a community level. These issues will be critical factors in
the success of the GEF project and the program will include capacity
building support for district Forest Departments, including Mulanje and
Palombe. This support will directly support the implementation of the
Reserve management plan, and therefore the GEF project. DFID has committed
to support the project by providing ca US$ 500,000 for elements of the
co-management and livelihoods component. This will help consolidate the
directly poverty-focused elements of the Reserve management plan and
complement support provided via the proposed Forest Sector program. In
the longer term, future DFID co-financing of livelihoods based activities
around the MMFR will be discussed based on joint appraisals of progress
under Phase I, and progress of the wider Forestry Sector restructuring
program. Surrounding Communities. In 1996/97, the Government of Malawi
approved a new Forestry Policy and Forestry Act, to allow the limited
sustainable use of selected forest products by local communities in
specific areas, and to seek community involvement in the management of the
forest reserves and their surrounding areas. The target communities are
defined as those which traditionally used the resources of the reserves on
a regular basis, and are identified through consultation with traditional
leaders. This approach has proven effective as the traditional use rights
were well established in Malawi prior to the period of centralized
government control and are still popularly recognized. Therefore, the
same definition has been used to identify the key community stakeholders
of the MMCT, who will also be the main participants and beneficiaries of
the conservation (employment), co-management and educational programs.
Overall, this comprises approximately 105,000 people living in ca. 100
villages located within 5 km. of the Reserve boundary. The principle
mechanism for community participation in co-management is the Village
Natural Resource Management Committee, which is appointed by the
respective community members. In addition, it is proposed that
specialized resource-user groups (with membership drawn from groups of
neighboring villages) may be formed for management activities focused on
sustainable use of specific resources such as medicinal plants, thatch,
hardwood for handicrafts, etc. Some VNRMCs have been established in the
project area, but they are generally not functioning due to a lack of
- 5-



mobilization and training, and lack of motivation in the absence of
specific activities and resources to undertake them. This has been
aggravated by a lack of capacity within the FD staff, for which
co-management is still a relatively new and poorly concept and approach.
The highly consultative process of project preparation has stimulated
increased interest, and MMCT will build upon this by providing support to
appropriate NGOs to work with the target communities to enhance their
organization, knowledge and skills. It will also complement support being
provided by other donors (DFID, EU, GTZ, IDA) to strengthen FD capacity in
co-management.Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) M&E will provide the MMCT
and other beneficiaries with data and information to measure progress,
determine whether the expected impacts are successful, and provide timely
feedback to ensure that problems are identified early in implementation
and that appropriate actions are taken. M&E indicators will be developed
in accordance with guidelines for GEF-financed projects during Phase I of
the project and will measure project aspects such as: (i) ecological
monitoring; (ii) co-management activities; and (iii) institutional
effectiveness.The monitoring and evaluation of ecological and conservation
impacts would examine the overall changes and trends in the conservation
status of the Mulanje Massif ecosystem and of keystone or focal species.
This would include the following elements: collection of baseline data on
a specified set of parameters to establish the starting condition;
monitoring the status, change and trends in the indicators over time and;
evaluating the significance of changes and trends observed through the
research and studies program. Specific biological indicators to be
included in the monitoring program will be defined in year one of the
project by the biodiversity conservation and research program officer in
consultation with the scientific team contracted to do the rapid baseline
survey and assessment. The socioeconomic and community assessments
monitoring will focus on the effectiveness of the project in: improving
local perceptions of the Reserve and understanding of the global and local
benefits; implementing co-management, particularly in relation to the
sustainable management of biodiversity resources; the nature and quality
of relations between local stakeholders and the FD and the MMCT; and
increasing the proportion of reserve benefits going to local
communities.The monitoring and evaluation of the overall institutional
structure of the MMCT will focus on two aspects: (i) the effectiveness of
MMCT as a mechanism for providing long-term reliable funding for
conservation programs, and (ii) its effectiveness in enabling key
stakeholders to decide jointly how best to allocate the available funds to
achieve conservation and related development objectives. Project Review
Arrangements: The project will be supervised by a World Bank team twice a
year. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) will be undertaken by the World Bank
between 18 and 21 months after project effectiveness. The primary
objective of the MTR will be to assess the progress of the MMCT towards
achieving the agreed indicators for the release of the endowment funds for
the project.
7. Sustainability
The establishment of the MMCT specifically aims to overcome the common
problem of lack of sustainability of funds for conservation activities in
traditional projects. The establishment of a Conservation Trust Fund will
ensure that a dependable and constant stream of income will be available
to cover recurrent costs in perpetuity. The sustainability of the project
will depend on three main issues: (1) appropriate and effective management
- 6 -



of the Conservation Trust Fund to ensure that financial resources are
available; (2) the soundness of the institutional structure of the Trust
including the functional relationship between the TAU and the Board, and
their accountability to the stakeholders; and (3) commitment and ownership
by the beneficiaries and stakeholders to implement the conservation
related activities established under the project. RisksThe main risks
relating to the project would include:lack of Forest Department capacity
or commitment to effectively manage the MMFR and maintain its biodiversity
and ecological values;failure of MMCT governance structure and
institutional bodies to function effectively;failure of fund-raising
efforts to increase the capital of the Trust Fund to a level where its
investment income can sustain an adequate level of activity to achieve the
anticipated conservation benefits;local stakeholders expectations exceed
what MMCT can provide in terms of assistance and of what MMFR can provide
in terms of resources on a sustainable basis. GOM/private sector promote
development programs incompatible with Reserve Management Plan.Given the
strong commitment on the part of the stakeholders who set it up and the
strong support from Government, and the consultative process that has been
followed and will be continued in establishing the Trust mechanisms and
procedures, there is only a risk that the institutional mechanism will
fail to function properly, or that the specific activities to be funded by
the Trust will not be implemented effectively. The much greater risk is
in relation to the expectations of the local communities with respect to
what the MMCT can provide in terms of financial assistance and what the
MMFR can provide in terms of resources extracted on a sustainable basis.
There is a risk that the MMCT project activities will be not be adequate
to have a measurable positive impact, in view of the underlying factors
which threaten the massif's biodiversity, i.e. population growth, poverty
and land insecurity. It is recognized that the MMCT activities will build
upon other important initiatives in the area that are also aimed at
addressing these underlying causes of unsustainable natural resource use,
and consequently of biodiversity loss.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The highly successful GEF-sponsored Uganda Mgahinga and Bwindi
Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust (MBIFCT) project has provided
significant lessons for this project ranging from best practices for
consultation with local communities and stakeholders during the design and
preparation phase of the project to the appropriate institutional
structure and function of the various institutional components. This was
achieved both by review of MBIFCT written documentation and through a site
visit by several members of the MMCT Board and preparation team. Some
aspects of the MMCT have been modeled on the MBIFCT, for example the
multi-stakeholder Trust Management Board and its relationship to the Trust
Administration Unit. However, it was also recognized that the design and
operation of MMCT must take into account significant differences in the
contexts and conditions under which the two are operating. For example,
the MBIFCT aims to provide alternative income and a degree of compensation
to communities which have been entirely excluded from the two national
parks, whereas MMCT aims to facilitate community participation in
sustainable management of biological resources within a Forest Reserve to
which they have continued access. In addition, the prospects for income
generation from sustainable use of biodiversity are lower in the Mulanje
area than in SW Uganda, and the level and experience of political
organization at the local level is substantially lower in Malawi than in
-7 -



Uganda, with decentralization of government authority to elected bodies at
the District level just being introduced. These considerations have
helped to shape the MMCT's approach to community participation and
support, such that it will emphasize employment generation (in
conservation activities) and capacity building for co-management rather
than financing community micro-projects. The MMCT institutional structure
has also been simplified relative to that of MBIFCT in view of the more
limited individual and institutional capacity. This project will provide
an opportunity to see how the successful MBIFCT model can be adapted to
meet similar conservation challenges under different circumstances. While
co-management is just being introduced as the central approach within the
Forestry sector, there have been some pilot programs over the past 10
years, following up on an experimental program of the Forest Research
Institute of Malawi, financed by DFID (formerly ODA). While
implementation and official recognition have been slow overall, several of
these pilot sites have successfully established co-management of forest
areas. There are also several ongoing donor-funded initiatives (GTZ, EU,
IDA) supporting capacity building for co-management within the Forest
Department. These are largely site-specific and none currently target the
Mt. Mulanje Forest Reserve (a gap which the MMCT aims to help fill), but
they provide useful guidance for the co-management capacity-building
component of this project. For example, it was decided that MMCT should
support NGOs to provide capacity building directly to communities in
addition to working with the FD, and that the co-management support should
be built around a limited number of specific pilot projects to ensure that
there are activities on the ground as soon as possible.Malawi has also
gained valuable experience in involving local communities in natural
resource management through projects in other sectors. One particularly
successful example is the GTZ-sponsored Lake Malombe community-based
fisheries management pilot project which empowered traditional leaders and
their subjects to play a self-regulatory role in fisheries management,
such as ensuring that appropriate fishing gear (with correct net sizes) is
used. This has resulted in a recovery phase in the fisheries and a change
in attitude of the communities towards sustainability. The success of the
program has been attributed to both empowering local communities as well
as providing effective community education. Both these lessons have been
incorporated into the design of the MMCT. Another co-management project
which has been ongoing for a longer time is the GTZ-funded Bee-keeping
Project in the Nyika National Park and the Vwaza Wildlife Reserve, which
involves adjacent communities harvesting non-timber products and honey
from the parks. The MMCT project will build on this experience in both
the designing and implementation of the community biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use programs.The World Bank-financed Malawi
Environmental Management Project is also supporting community-based
environmental and natural resource management, including support for
community groups to implement activities to improve local environmental
conditions. The pilot phase of this component has just been completed and
a follow-up phase is being initiated, taking into account the enhanced
role of District level institutions under the Government's
decentralization policy. Lessons from the pilot phase particularly
relevant to the MMCT relate to community mobilization and capacity
building, the use and limitations of PRA for identifying appropriate
environmentally-oriented activities, and mechanisms for collaboration with
NGOs and community-based organizations. The lessons from these projects
are generally corroborated in the November 1995 World Bank report,
- 8 -



Mainstreaming Biodiversity in Development: a World Bank Assistance
strategy for implementing the Convention on Biological Diversity, and by
the 1996 Bank report GEF Pilot Phase Portfolio Project Implementation
Review which support the need for (a) independent professional management
of financial accounts, (b) more creative cooperation among implementing
agencies and other global organizations working in the field of
biodiversity; (c) provision for long preparation time required to achieve
regional collaboration and build local ownership; (d) participation by
local communities in productive activities especially in buffer zones; and
(e) ensuring early on that the implementing agency understands Bank/GEF
procedures and guidelines. The design of this MMCT project has taken into
account the recommendations detailed in these and other reports.The GEF
Evaluation of Experience with Conservation Trust Funds identifies certain
key conditions associated with trust fund success, including internal and
external factors that contribute to the fund's ability to become a viable
institution and achieve its mission. Four of these were identified as
critical, and they are in place for the MMCT:(a) A commitment of at least
10-15 years(b) Active government support for a public-private sector
mechanism outside government control: (c) A critical mass of people from
diverse sectors of society who can work together despite their different
approaches to biodiversity conservation and sustainable development; (d)
A basic fabric of legal and financial practices and supporting
institutions (including banking, auditing and contracting) in which people
have confidence:Most of the other "success conditions" are also present,
as discussed in previous sections, e.g.: (i) the existence of a valuable,
globally significant biodiversity resource whose conservation is
politically, technically, economically, and socially feasible (given that
the GEF resources will build upon a larger base of strong support for
improving management of the Mulanje reserve, and promoting sustainable use
of the area's natural resources), and which requires long-term support;
(ii) mechanisms in place to involve a broad set of stakeholders during the
design process, and willingness of stakeholders to use these mechanisms
(as evidenced by the consultative processes underway for development of
the Reserve Management Plan and the MMCT project); (iii) "mentors"
supporting the Fund's establishment and operations (the already
established relationship with the Bwindi Trust in Uganda and to be
established with the Cape Peninsula Trust in South Africa, as well as
access to the broader GOM program of developing co-management of forest
and wildlife resources, which is being supported by a number of donors and
NGOs around the country); and (iv) an effective demand for the fund's
product (the demand is there in terms of the interests and needs of the
stakeholders, although the MMCT will need to help mobilize this demand
effectively through its community capacity building activities in Phase
1).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Nathalie Weier Johnson
The World Bank
9



1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 20, 2001.
- 10 -



