Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20985-MAI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.3 MILLION (US$6.75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
MULANJE MOUNTAIN BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
March 26, 2001
Environment and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 13, 2001)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MWK)
MWK 1 = US$0.012
US$1 = MWK 80.300
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CITES       Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
COP         Conference of the Parties
CTF         Conservation Trust Fund
DFID        Department for International Development
EBA         Endemic Bird Area
FD          Forest Department
FRIM        Forest Research Institute of Malawi
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GOM         Government of Malawi
GTZ         German Technical Assistance
IGA         Income Generating Activities
LCSC        Local Community Steering Committee
MMCT        Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
MMFR        Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve
NEAP        National Environmental Action Plan
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PRA         Participatory Rural Appraisal
TAC         Technical Advisory Committee
TAU         Trust Administration Unit
TMB         Trust Management Board
TMU         Trust Management Unit
UNCED       United Nations Conference on Environment and Development
Vice President          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director         Darius Mans
Sector Manager          Roger C. Sullivan
Team Leader            Nathalie W. Johnson



MALAWI
MULANJE MOUNTAIN BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                                                                                Page
1. Project development objective ...........................................................                                               2
2. Key performance indicators ...........................................................                                                  4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ......... 5
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy ....................................................  6
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .........                                         ................... 7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components ..............................................................                                                       8
2.  Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the project .................................  14
3.  Benefits and target population ........................................................                                     ......   15
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................                                    .......................    16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered  and reasons for rejection ....................................... 19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies .............. 20
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in proposed project design ...................................... 20
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................                                       ...........................  23
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project ...................................................... 24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic .............................................................                                                                  24
2. Financial .............................................................                                                                 24
3. Technical .............................................................                                                                 24
4.  Institutional .............................................................                                                            24
5. Environmental .............................................................                                                             25
6. Social .............................................................                                                                    25
7.  Safeguard  Policies .............................................................                                                      27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1.  Sustainability .............................................................                                                           27
2.  Critical risks .............................................................                                                           28
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition .............................................................                                                   29
H.  Readiness for Implementation .............................................................                                                  29
I.  Compliance with  Bank  Policies .............................................................                                               29



ANNEXES
Annex  1:  Project Design Summary  .....................................................................                                                                                              30
Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description .....................................................................                                                                                          33
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs .....................................................................                                                                                               40
Annex 4: Incremental Costs and Global Environment Benefits ..                                                                                                                                       .................... ...............  41
Annex 5:  Financial Summary .....................................................................                                                                                                     49
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ................................................                                                                                                  54
Annex  7:    Project Processing   Schedule   ....................................................................                                                                                     60
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .....................................................................                                                                                          61
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits .................................................................                                                                                            62
Annex 10: Country at a Glance .....................................................................                                                                                                   64
Annex   11: Technical Review   .....................................................................                                                                                                  66
Annex   12: Response  to  STAP   Review   .....................................................................                                                                                       70
Annex 13: Additional Biodiversity Information ............................................................                                                                                            71
Annex 14: Letter of Country Endorsement ..................................................................                                                                                            73
MAP
IBRD 31130



MALAWI
Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTES
Date: March 26, 2001                         Team Leader: Nathalie Johnson
Country Manager/Director: Darius Mans        Sector Manager: Roger Sullivan
Project ID: P035917                          Sector:
Lending Instrument: GEF Grant                Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:    No[X]   Yes  [ ]
GEF            Others     Total      Commitment   Closing
US$ m   %      US$m       US $ m     Date            Date
GEF          6.75    84%       1.27       8.02         2002           2008      Republic of
Grant                                                                           Malawi
Project Funding Data
[I]     Loan    [ I    Credit    [x]   Grant    I ]  Guarantee       Il  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$ 6.75 million
Proposed terms:    [ ]    To be defined  [X]  Multicurrency       [ ]  Single currency
[    Standard Variable   [ I  Fixed  [ ] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            NA
Years to maturity:              NA
Commitment fee:                 NA
Service charge:                  NA
Front-end fee on Bank loan:      NA
FundiAigpJarn *..  U       A          ...   ...                             T......
GEF                                                              6.41        0.34         6.75
Others                                                           0.75         0.52        1.27
Total:                                                           7.16         0.86        8.02
Recipient: Republic of Malawi
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency(ies): Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual    1.36       2;i4       2.65        0         0          0         0
Cumulative    1.36       4.10      6.75        0          0         0          0
Project implementation period: 2002-2008
Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 2001                Expected closing date: June 30, 2008
Implementing agency:  Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
Contact person:         Mr. Jones Njala
Address:                P.O. Box 139, Mulanje, Malawi
Tel: (265) 465-241        Fax: (265) 465-241                   E-mail: MMCT ,Malawi.net
OCR PAD Fonn Rev M.2, 000



- 2-
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1. Background
Biodiversity
Mulanje Mountain in south-eastem Malawi is the highest mountain in south-central Africa, rising to 3002
m above sea level. There are six different plant communities on the mountain, as the dominant vegetation
varies with altitude, relief, aspect, rock form, soils, and incidence of fire. They range from miombo
woodlands at its base to fire-induced grassland on the plateaus, to afro-montane forests near the summit.
The afro-montane ecosystem in particular includes a large number of endemic flora and fauna species,
many of which are endangered or threatened by extinction. This includes over 600 spp. of plants
(including 41 endemics), the largest number of forest butterflies found in Malawi (1 18 spp, including five
endemics), along with numerous endemic reptiles, fish, etc.). Mulanje Mountain is also one of Africa's
key sites for threatened bird species, forming part of the Tanganyika-Nyasa Mountain Group Endemic
Bird Area. (See Annex 4 for further details). Due to its species richness and high levels of endemism,
Mt. Mulanje was identified by the World Wildlife Fund as one of 200 global ecoregions in the world for
the conservation of biodiversity and designated as an Afromontane Regional Centre of Endemism. The
massif also serves as the source of headwaters for nine rivers and represents an important source of timber
and other products, traditionally including the commercially valuable Mulanje Cedar. Timber and
fuelwood plantations (pine and eucalyptus) occupy about 8% of the massif's land area, and there are
currently 40 licensed pit sawyers operating in the area.
Threats to Mulanje Mountain's Biodiversity and their causes
The major threats to the biodiversity of the massif include:
*  unsustainable resource use stemming from high population density, pervasive poverty, and lack
of awareness of and weak incentives for sound conservation practices;
*  agricultural encroachment on the lower slopes;
*  damaging bush fires due to an incomplete system of fire breaks and inadequate response capacity;
and
*  invasion of alien species.
Since its gazettement in 1927 (primarily to safeguard the water catchment and to control the extraction of
Mulanje Cedar) the Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve has been officially reduced in size at least five
times, in response to increasing population pressures. We have received written Govemment assurance
that the Mt. Mulanje Forest Reserve boundaries will not be further reduced. Over 825,000 people live in
the two districts of Mulanje and Phalombe, in 85 villages that collectively completely surround the
mountain (population density of 185 persons/km2). Their main livelihood is small-scale agriculture, with
an average farm size of just 0.4 hectare. The Southem Region of Malawi contains a disproportionately
high percentage of poorer households, and Mulanje is basically a maize-deficit area. Many of the farms
are managed by women as many of the men work on tea estates. The neighboring population also
depends on the forest for collection of firewood both for domestic use and for sale, and collection of other
non-timber products (medicines, grass for thatching, wild fruits, mushrooms, honey, fiber, etc.). Hunting
is now illegal, but is a traditional practice and continues in the absence of effective controls. All of this
resource use is becoming increasingly unsustainable and having negative ecological impacts as the
population grows. Agricultural encroachment is also becoming a threat in some areas of the lower slopes.



- 3 -
Man-made fires, often set by hunters attempting to drive animals out of hiding, frequently consume large
areas within the Reserve due to the inadequate system of internal fire breaks. They present a major threat
to the ecosystem, particularly to the survival and regeneration of the Mulanje Cedar and the Brachstegia
forests, and are also affecting the capacity of the plateau to retain water. In addition, several invasive
exotic plant species (e.g., pine and Himalayan Raspberry) are also threatening to crowd out elements of
the indigenous biota.
The population of Mulanje Cedar, once widespread, has now been reduced to 48 small sites, mainly as a
result of fires and of an exotic aphid which was introduced in 1985. The aphid killed an estimated 10,000
trees before being arrested by a predatory wasp introduced by the Forestry Research Institute of Malawi.
While felling of live Mulanje Cedar was officially stopped in 1993, licenses are still being issued for
sawing of dead trees, a practice which is subject to abuse by sawyers as a result of inadequate
enforcement capacity of the Forest Department. With only an estimated 1,000 ha of live Cedar remaining
on the mountain, regeneration of the Cedar forests is a high management priority.
Project Origin
Like many similar organizations in other countries, the Forestry Department in Malawi has experienced
severe staffing and budget constraints in recent years. This, together with a strong movement towards
democratization, has led to a move away from a "command-and-control" approach to managing the
country's natural resources and towards one of partnership and cooperation with local communities. In
1996 and 1997, the Govermment of Malawi adopted a progressive policy framework and passed
legislation which provides for the implementation of a "co-management" approach for its 71 gazetted
Forest Reserves (including the Mulanje Forest Reserve), five National Parks and four Wildlife Reserves.
Under this approach, neighboring communities are able to participate directly in the management of these
protected areas, including both active engagement in their protection (e.g., community patrols and
sanctions) and obtaining benefits from sustainable use of wood and non-wood products. With assistance
from a number of donor-funded programs (including the Department for International Development
(DFID-UK), USAID and the World Bank), the Forestry Department is assisting communities to assume
their role in co-management, and also to reduce pressure on forest resources, for examnple by establishing
private and community woodlots.
In 1994, a group of Malawians committed to preserving the unique biodiversity and ecosystems of the
Mulanje massif established the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust (MMCT). While the Forestry
Department's mandate includes biodiversity conservation, the primary emphasis for co-management of
Forest Reserves across the country is on watershed protection anid sustainable use of forest resources.
The objective of the MMCT, therefore, is to ensure that biodiversity conservation receives a high priority
in the management of the Mulanje Forest Reserve. The MMCT aims to achieve this by:
*  raising awareness of the value and importance of the area's biodiversity within the FD and the
surrounding communities;
*  supporting the implementation of the Management Plan for the Mulanje Forest Reserve to ensure
that it addresses key conservation areas and needs;
*  strengthening the capacity of FD and communities to implement protection and conservation
activities; and
*  encouraging greater participation by the local communities in managing the forest reserve and
increasing the benefits they derive from reserve resources through employment in conservation
activities and co-management of forest resources.



- 4 -
Recognizing that biodiversity conservation is a continuing challenge, in the face of continuing threats and
pressures, the MMCT aims to establish an endowment fund which would generate a modest but reliable
income stream to support these activities over the long tenn.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2. Project development objectives and key performance indicators
The govemment's main development objectives for the Mulanje massif, as for other key upland forest
reserves in the country, is to maintain the vital watershed (headwater for nine rivers) and to benefit local
communities by establishing sustainable management of the forest resources through cooperation between
the Forest Department and local authorities and communities. This involves implementation of the FD
co-management policy, through training and capacity building of FD staff and mobilization of
participating communities, and will be supported mainly by the GOM in its normal operations and by
DFID. Progress towards these objectives would be measured and monitored in terms of:
*  implementation of The Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve Management Plan (including an
embedded Biodiversity Conservation Plan) by FD in consultation with communities;
*  effective mobilization of communities to participate in the management of the Reserve's
resources (i.e. through the Village Natural Resource Management Committees);
*  formal allocation of specific areas within the Reserve to particular villages or groups of villages
for co-management and sustainable use purposes;
*  preparation (by communities) and approval (by the FD) of "Constitutions" which outline agreed
rules for access to and use of these forest areas and community-based sanctions for violation of
those rules; and
*  effective implementation of those Constitutions, resulting in a reduction of current illegal and/or
unsustainable practices, as reflected in FD monitoring reports and minutes of Village Natural
Resource Committee meetings.
3. Project global objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The global environmental objective of the project is to preserve the globally significant biodiversity and
unique ecosystems of the Mulanje massif, at a level beyond what could be expected based on the
management objectives of watershed protection and sustainable use of forest products. Specifically, GEF
funds would support activities to incorporate biodiversity conservation objectives effectively into Reserve
management. This would include, i.e. monitoring populations and distributions of targeted species and
other ecological indicators, identifying high priority conservation sites and the activities required to
protect their biodiversity, including co-management of forest resources. GEF funds would also help raise
awareness of the importance of biodiversity and healthy ecosystems, and strengthen the capacity of the
FD and communities to implement conservation activities, through environmental/conservation education
and specific skills training and through support for specific conservation actions (e.g., maintaining key
firebreaks).
Progress toward this objective would be measured and monitored in terms of:
increased awareness, understanding and appreciation of the importance of environmental
management in general, and of biodiversity conservation in particular, particularly within FD and
among local communities;



*  reversal of the trend of degradation and loss of globally significant biodiversity in the Mulanje
Mountain ecosystem, determined through ecological/biodiversity monitoring program;
*  contribution to the implementation of the Reserve Management Plan, focusing on the biodiversity
conservation aspects;
*  a decrease in the incidence and levels of activities and events which represent important threats to
the area's biodiversity;
*  implementation of specific conservation actions (e.g., firebreak maintenance, removal of invasive
exotic vegetation), carried out to the extent possible by local communities;
*  participation by local communities in co-management of the Forest Reserve, and implementation
and success of co-management pilot projects;
*  successful establishment and use of a Trust Fund to support conservation activities over the long
term, with effective participation of key stakeholders and a positive reputation at local, national
and intemational levels; and
*  success in raising funds to increase the endowment and/or operational resources of the MMCT.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-224         Date of latest CAS discussion: December 21, 2000
The project's activities to improve environmental management and community welfare are consistent with
the Bank's central focus of poverty reduction outlined in the Malawi Country Assistance Strategy. The
sustainable management of natural resources is essential for poverty reduction in Malawi.
Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The project is consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation and
specifically with O.P.4 ( Mountain Ecosystems). Consistent with this program, the project will address
conservation and sustainable use in a mountain ecosystem in southern Africa which is under increasing
human pressure and imminent threat of degradation. Mt. Mulanje is one of the 200 Global Ecoregions
identified as conservation priorities by the World Wildlife Fund, and has been designated as an
Afromontane Regional Centre of Endemism, and as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is one of Africa's
key sites for threatened bird species, formning part of the Tanganyika-Nyasa Mountain Group Endemic
Bird Area- see Annex 13 for further details of the area's biological values.
The project is consistent with COP guidance in that it seeks to encourage conservation and sustainable use
of threatened habitats and endemic species within a vulnerable montane ecosystem. It responds to COP3
and COP4 guidance through capacity building for better forest management and by taking an ecosystem
approach that fosters improved forest management and sustainable use across an altitudinal gradient of
different habitat types under different management regimes. The project further responds to COP4
guidance by promoting incentive measures and community involvement in forest management
specifically to attain conservation objectives, including removal of alien species. It is expected that
conservation co-management initiatives developed for Mulanje will prove relevant to other forest reserves
in Malawi and elsewhere in Africa. The project will support new and innovative institutional measures to
address the need for recurrent cost financing for conservation, including community-initiated efforts. The
trust fund design includes many of the best practice guidelines identified in the GEF evaluation of Trust
Funds.



- 6-
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Malawi has one of the highest population densities in Africa, with an average 170 inhabitants per square
kilometer of arable land, and an average growth rate of 2.8% (1998 estimate). Most of the population
(85%) live in the rural areas where subsistence farming is the dominant livelihood activity. As of 1990,
2
Malawi had a total area of 26,428 km forest cover (28% of the total land area) consisting of forest
reserves (7,905 km ), national parks and wildlife reserves (9,770 kmn ), anid customary land forests (8,843
km ). Due to increasing population, insecure land tenure and pervasive poverty, many rural inhabitants
see the forests as their only options for establishing farms and for obtaining income through sale of forest
resources. Deforestation has been rapid in recent years (ca. 2.8%/year, 1996 estimate), with much of it
occurring on customary land. However, since the forested area under customary tenure makes up only
33% of the total, protected forests in Malawi are and will continue to be under increasing pressure of
exploitation. The capacity of the FD to protect and manage the protected forests is greatly constrained by
its limited budgets and major staff reductions in recent years. The G OM's newly adopted
"co-management" approach, which seeks to involve communities as partners in managing the protected
areas, is expected to be more cost-effective and to provide better results. However, both the FD and local
community members will require education, training and material support to fulfill their roles in
co-management effectively. At present, the focus is on training FD staff in community consultation and
mobilization techniques, on delineating areas of the Forest Reserves to be managed in collaboration with
specific communities, and on assisting the communities to develop "Constitutions" goveming access to
and use of those areas and resources (these Constitutions, once approved by the Minister, will form the
basis for Reserve co-management).
Some of the main government strategies considered in designing this project include:
*  Policy issues: From the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development
(UNCED) held in Rio de Janeiro, Malawi embarked on a new environmental management
strategy which led to the preparation of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). The
NEAP was adopted in December 1994 and this was followed by development and adoption of the
Environmental Support Program (ESP) and formulation of the National Environmental Policy,
culminating in enactment of Act No. 23, Environment Management Act, 1996. Development of
Guidelines for Conducting Environmental Impact Assessments were also subsequently completed
and adopted. These government strategies have been developed in parallel with a
Decentralization Policy for the empowerment of Districts, including environmental management.
*  Land tenure issue: The Presidential Commission of Inquiry into Land Policy was set up in
March 1996 to develop a more efficient, sustainable and equitable land tenure system. The
Commission submitted its report in October 1999. Government has also already prepared a draft
new land policy which is currently in Cabinet under consideration, and a Strategic Action Plan to
move forward in the process of land policy refonm. The Bank has been involved throughout this
process and it is very likely that a project to support the process will be prepared over the next
year or so.
* Forest policy: The recently approved National Forest Policy (1996) and the new Forest Act
(1997) provide for increased community involvement in forest management, recommending "the
limited sustainable use of selected products" by local communities in specific areas. It also
promotes community involvement in the management of forest reserves and their surrounding
areas. These instruments also recommend an increased focus on community-targeted
mechanisms and set out the legal and institutional framework for environmental management.
* International Conventions: The Government of Malawvi has ratified many international
environmental conventions such as: the Convention on Inteniational Trade in Endangered Species



- 7 -
(CITES); the Convention on Biological Diversity in June 1992; the Vienna Convention and its
Montreal Protocol in April 1991; the Convention on Drought and Desertification in October,
1994; and the RAMSAR Convention in 1997.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Despite their importance as watersheds, economic resources and reservoirs of biodiversity, the forests and
forest ecosystems of Malawi are threatened by agricultural expansion and unsustainable exploitation, as a
result of population pressures and pervasive poverty in rural areas. Furthermore, until recently, the Forest
Reserves were seen as State-owned resources which the people had no incentives to protect or maintain.
The co-management approach recently adopted by the Government provides an opportunity to involve
local populations in forest protection and management in a positive way, but it will require sustained
political, financial and technical support in order to be implemented effectively. The Government is
receiving assistance for this purpose from several donors, including the World Bank. The MMCT
complements this process by providing support for its particular mandate to ensure that the management
of the Mulanje Forest Reserve, identified as a high priority, globally significant biodiversity site within
the country, takes into account the need to protect biodiversity, over and above the standard of achieving
sustainable use of the biological resources.
The main strategic choices made in developing this project were: (i) to channel support through the
MMCT rather than the FD or another Non-governmental Organization; (ii) MMCT should work through
implementation partners instead of developing implementation capacity in house; and (iii) to select a
Trust Fund as the appropriate financing mechanism rather than a traditional project.
With regard to selection of the MMCT, it was recognized that the FD is a Government body, charged with
sustainable management of forest resources in cooperation with local communities. While its mandate
includes biodiversity conservation in principle, this is not its primary objective. By contrast, the MMCT
was initiated by Malawian conservationists whose main goal is to help maintain the biodiversity of the
massif. The MMCT Board brings together the key stakeholders, including the Government (FD), the
local communities and conservationists. There is no other national or international NGO with the same
conservation objectives and stakeholder focus working in Mulanje. However, there are NGO partners
with implementation capacity working with communities on sustainable resource management and
environmental education. MMCT will work in collaboration with FD and these NGOs rather than
developing this implementation capacity in house.
With regard to the Trust Fund mechanism, it was recognized that the nature of the threats to the
biodiversity of the Mulanje massif is such that they will not end or diminish over time, but will continue
to be present and will probably increase. Therefore, the activities needed to counter these threats and
support conservation objectives must also continue over the long term. These include creating and
maintaining awareness and knowledge among the stakeholders, carrying out ecological and biodiversity
monitoring, sustaining key conservation actions (e.g., maintaining firebreaks, controlling alien plant
species), and supporting co-management of the forest reserve. The proposed Trust Fund provides the
financial support to meet these needs over the long term, and also provides the flexibility for the
stakeholders, through the MMCT Board, to respond to changing challenges and circumstances while
ensuring adherence to the principles and objectives of the Trust as laid out in the Trust Deed. It also
demonstrates to the stakeholders the international community's willingness to make a long-term
commitment to support conservation of this global asset, and its support for the Government's policy of
involving local communities and other stakeholders in management of national biodiversity resources.
This will be matched by the Government's long-term commitment that the integrity of the Reserve will be
maintained.



- 8-
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has five major components (including capitalization of the Trust Fund itself) which will
benefit from GEF financing. Each component will provide the necessary technical and financial
assistance to develop institutional and management capacity within MMCT, within the Forestry
Department and, through the Program Officers and collaborating NGOs, within the local communities.
(a) Trust Administration. The Trust Administration Unit (TAU) will be established in Mulanje and
will consist of an Executive Director, three Program Officers, an Accountant, a Secretary, as well as
support staff. These individuals will be the only full-time employees of MMCT. The TAU will be
responsible for (i) developing the program content for each of the three components Biodiversity
conservation, Research and Monitoring; Environmental Education; and Forest co-management and
Livelihoods; (ii) working in collaboration with the FD and suitable NGOs to carry through the three
programs in (i) above; (iii) submitting annual work plans and budgets to the TMB for approval;
(iv) disbursing approved funds and ensuring that proper disbursement, procurement and supervision
procedures are followed; (v) maintaining financial records and accounting/reporting; and (vi) ensuring
ongoing monitoring and evaluation of all work receiving MMCT funding. The basic operational rules
and mechanisms of the MMCT are established in the Trust Administration Manual which is in draft
form. Final approval of the Manual will be a condition of project effectiveness. The TAU will also be
responsible for a fund raising strategy during Phase I which will attract donations from sources such as
bilateral donors, the private sector and international NGOs which will contribute to the overall
endowment fund of the MMCT. The capacity building element of this component will relate to the
coordinating functions of MMCT, including training for the TMB in relation to its responsibilities,
functions and procedures, training for the TAU administrative staff in aspects such as Trust accounts
procedures, reporting requirements, supervision of contracts, etc. Note that the Program Officers will be
recruited for their technical competence and therefore training requirements for them should be minimal,
however, some specialized short courses maybe necessary. Attendance at technical meetings and
conferences will fall under this budget line.
(b) Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring. Under this component the project will
support activities to identify, protect, manage, and monitor the status of biodiversity and ecosystem
health in the Reserve, and to reduce the impacts of human pressures on the ecosystem and its biological
resources. This will take place in the context of Government's efforts to improve the overall
management of the Reserve to maintain and increase its contribution to local and national economic
development. The GEF support will specifically ensure that biodiversity conservation is recognized and
adopted by the key stakeholders as an explicit objective of Reserve management, along with other
important objectives such as maintaining water supplies and providing sustainable supplies of valuable
timber and non-timber products. Related capacity building, particularly for the Forest Department staff
responsible for the Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve (MMFR) will be an important element during
Phase 1.
To be effective, biodiversity conservation activities must be sustained over long periods of time and
respond to changing physical, social, economic, institutional and political conditions. Conventional
conservation projects often support short-term interventions without providing resources to maintain the
effort. Similarly, they often support detailed baseline surveys and research without addressing the need
for ongoing monitoring or implementation of actions based on the results. A long-term funding
mechanism such as the MMCT provides a real opportunity for establishing a program of adaptive
biodiversity conservation and management, by putting in place the permanent financial and technical
capacity needed to identify conservation needs and opportunities, and to develop and support well-
informed, flexible strategies and programs of action.



-9-
Activities supported under this sub-component are divided into four categories:
(i)  biodiversity baseline survey and monitoring: carrying out a broad-based baseline
biodiversity survey to establish baseline conditions; developing and beginning
implementation of a practical, long-term monitoring program for tracking changes in
biodiversity and ecosystem health;
(ii) capacity building for biodiversity protection, management and monitoring: support to
FD (and other implementation partners, as appropriate), for training, workshops, and
specialized technical assistance to enhance their capacity to generate and use monitoring and
research data and to incorporate biodiversity conservation objectives into Reserve
management. In addition, the project will provide field, office and communication
equipment to improve FD's management and reporting capability;
(iii) direct conservation activities: support for equipment, tools, local labor and other
operational costs to carry out priority actions identified in the Reserve Management Plan,
such as maintaining firebreaks for particularly sensitive areas; boundary maintenance;
development and implementation of conservation plans for Mulanje Cedar and for mid-
altitude indigenous forests, eradication or control of alien species (particularly invasive
plants and Cypress aphid); development and implementation of an ecological resource
conservation plan for medicinal plants; and
(iv) research: support for local researchers to carry out research to provide the information and
tools needed to improve biodiversity conservation and management over the longer term and
to ensure the Reserve Management Plan remains up to date.
A full-time Biodiversity Conservation and Research Program Officer will be recruited for the TAU to
develop and supervise the implementation of this component. A number of high priority conservation
activities have already been identified in the Reserve Management Plan, which could be started
immediately, along with the baseline survey. Direct conservation activities will be implemented mainly
by the Forest Department, in collaboration with local communities (including direct employment of
community members for on-the-ground actions as appropriate). Biodiversity survey and monitoring and
conservation/management-oriented research will be carried out by the Forest Department (Forest
Research Institute of Malawi) and other local organizations, with national or intemational technical
assistance as required.
(c) Environmental education. A primary objective of the MMCT is to raise awareness of the value
and importance of the MMFR within the FD and the surrounding communities. A full time
environmental education program officer will be recruited in the TAU to develop a program for
environmental education which targets the local communities and forest department officers in the area.
The strategy, scope and specific activities of the environmental education program will be developed by
the environmental education progratn officer in the first year of the project. Local
NGO partners, (such as the Malawi Wildlife Society), will be identified, as appropriate, to assist in the
implementation of the outreach program. The program may include such things as:
*  an assessment of the local primary and secondary schools' involvement in promoting
environmental awareness, and potential for promoting local biodiversity conservation;
*  participatory planning and design of program activities by relevant stakeholders (school officials,
FD, communities, NGOs, etc.);
*  development of environmental education materials; and
*  collection of resource materials.



- 10 -
The broad program, mechanism for delivery, and specific activities under this component will be defined
in the first year. An agreed amount will be allocated for this component and disbursed against agreed
annual workplans.
(d) Forest Co-management and Sustainable Livelihoods. The purpose of this component is to
increase the share of the benefits from the Reserve going to local communities and to ensure that this is
on a sustainable basis. It is fully consistent with the Government's policy for co-management of forest
reserves and forests on customary land. However, implementation of this policy has lagged due to a lack
of capacity within the Forest Department and communities, and insufficient resources to develop and
implement co-management activities. The key stakeholders and actors in co-management and natural
resource management are community-based organizations such as Village Natural Resource
Management Committees and resource user groups, local and District government, and District level FD
staff. With progressive implementation of the Government's decentralization policy, the role and
importance of District government, including District Councils and associated technical and executive
committees) will grow. GEF funds will support training, workshops and technical assistance to help
mobilize these stakeholders and enhance their knowledge and skills to become effective co-management
partners. This support will mainly be focused around several co-management pilot projects which will
be selected to emphasize the linkage between local economic benefits and maintaining indigenous
biodiversity and natural ecosystems (e.g., restoration and management of selected stands of Mulanje
cedar, reafforestation of degraded areas with valuable indigenous species including Prunus africanus,
and sustainable use of medicinal plants, and other non-timber forest products). It is expected that these
enhanced opportunities and benefits will increase the value that local communities and local government
place on the biodiversity and ecosystems of the Mulanje massif and therefore decrease pressures of over-
exploitation and agricultural encroachment.
While local stakeholders have expressed considerable interest in MMCT supporting the development of
"Income Generating Activities" (IGAs), studies undertaken during project preparation indicated only a
very limited potential for small-scale IGAs based on sustainable use of forest resources (e.g., Prunus
africanus, mushrooms, medicinal plants, ecotourism, handicrafts, etc.). Furthermore, community-based
IGAs are complex and difficult to implement successfully, generally hard to link with conservation
objectives, and have a substantial record of failure in Malawi and elsewhere. Therefore, the MMCT will
be very cautious in its approach, and will only consider providing support for IGAs if a clear
conservation linkage is demonstrated and if it is proposed and executed by an NGO partner with
demonstrated capacity and experience in this area.
MMCT will recruit a full-time Co-management and Livelihoods Program Officer to develop and
supervise implementation of a program under this component. MMCT will collaborate with one or more
suitable NGO implementation partners, providing grants (estimated $30,000-$50,000 per year), to enable
them to carry out activities identified in agreed work plans. DFID is expecting to continue engagement
in this area. Details of potential DFID support for this component during Phase I are provided in Section
4 below - DFID. See also Annex 4, Co-Financing and Revenue Generation.
(e) Conservation Trust Fund. The purpose of the Conservation Trust Fund (CTF) is to provide
sustainable in-country funding for biodiversity conservation of the Mulanje Massif and surrounding area,
in the context of ecologically sustainable development. The MMCT Fund will be established as the
financing mechanism for the above mentioned project components. Phase I (start-up), which is
expected to last three years, will build the capacity within the MMCT and its partners to carry out their
respective roles in the management of the Trust and the coordination and implementation of the
activities described above. A modest unallocated fund for technical programs will allow MMCT to



- 11 -
address early needs and gain experience in program planning and implementation. At then end of year
2, an assessment of the achievement of the agreed indicators of institutional capacity and readiness (see
page 13) will serve to trigger the release of the US$5.5 million endowment capital into the Trust.
During year 3, the endowment will earn interest and it is these funds which will finance Phase II
(implementation phase). Assistance from the GEF is requested to provide the initial endowment capital
of US$5.5 million for Phase II of the project, as well as US$1.25 for the three-year start-up phase.
Table 1. Project Components
..Financing
Actual Costs   % Share of    GEF      % of GEF      Ohro           of
. : OtOthe:
Complonent       Category   Alternativof GEF  GEF    Financing    Financing   Donors and .ntheanin
Alternative   Alternative   (SUS M)    (SU  M)      GbMI   .     iaoi
($US M)       Cost                              .(,US M)    ($us M)
Trust Administration               0.58         7.2         0.58         8.6         0.00        0.0
Biodiversity            I          0.94         11.7        0.40         6.0         0.53       42.5
Conservation, Research
and Monitoring
Environmental           I          0.14          1.8        0.14         2.0         0.00        0.0
Education and
Communication
Forest Co-Management    1          0.86         10.7        0.13         1.9         0.74       57.5
and Livelihoods
Conservation Trust      F           5.5        68.6         5.50        81.5        0.00         0.0
Fund
Total                              8.02        100.0        6.75       100.0         1.27      100.0
Notes: Actual cost of GEF Alternative represents undiscounted cash flows.
The following provides a more detailed description of the financing structure of the project, i.e. the
objectives and activities of Phase I and Phase II, as well as the preparatory phase, now largely
completed, which was financed partly by the GEF and partly by DFID and others:
Preparatory Phase: Activities to establish the CTF were undertaken. The expenditures reflected in the
budget for this (US$300,000 from GEF plus an equivalent amount from DFID, University of Malawi,
National Herbarium and Botanic Gardens of Malawi, and the Wildlife Society of Malawi) generally
represent one-time, ground-laying costs including technical support. During the preparation period, the
MMCT Board, with the assistance of the Program Coordinator and contracted specialists, developed an
investment strategy and guidelines, prepared a proposal for selecting an asset manager and establishing
financial audit and control systems to intemational standards. Other preparation activities included:
(1) completion of an Administration Manual to define/clarify procedures and operations for the MMCT
and its bodies; (2) fornalization of cooperative working relationships with key national and local
govemmental entities; (3) studies including community consultation and participation, forest
productivity, timber utilization, non-timber forest products, ecotourism, and institutional development
and organizational strengthening. These studies were undertaken to support the preparation of the
Reserve Management Plan and were financed primarily by DFID.



- 12 -
The consultative preparation of the Reserve Management Plan, has been completed, and adopted by the
GOM and the Forest Department. The Plan includes the following activities:
*  identification of the significant biological resources of Mulanje mountain and the threats and
trends on these resources;
*  development of appropriate management objectives from information collected;
* development of strategies for habitat management, including a proposed zoning plan; and
* development of a proposed implementation program involving activities such as pilot
co-management projects, environmental education, livelihood enhancement, ecological research
and monitoring, essential infrastructure and equipment for FD, and strengthening FD
management capacity and extemal relations.
Phase I: Phase I of the project will support capacity building activities at various levels to develop and
strengthen an enabling environment for project implementation. Some aspects of implementation will
also commence including the baseline data collection under the biodiversity component as well as pilot
projects under the Co-management and Livelihoods component. The budget for this phase totals
US$1.25 million. Phase I will commence when the project is declared effective, which is expected to be
in May 2001, and will last for three years. The following activities will be undertaken:
*  Trust Administration: this activity includes office accommodation, staffing and training.
Project offices will be rented during the first two years, in the third year there will be provision in
the budget for construction of offices. The release of those funds will depend on the agreement to
pioceed to Phase II and construction being shown to be a satisfactory economic altemative to
renting. Staff to be recruited are the Executive Director, three Program Officers, an Accountant,
a Secretary and support staff. The administrative arrangements for the implementation of the
project will also be established under this component, including the finalization of criteria for
disbursing and supervising sub-grants to the FD and collaborating NGOs as approved by the
Board. The Trust Administration Manual will provide guidelines for all MMCT procedures.
Training activities will provide the TMB, the TAU and the FD staff with the skills needed for
implementation of the project.
*  Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring: During Phase I, the emphasis will be
on development of capacity, strategies and action plans, and implementation of some urgent
actions on the ground. Activities will include: recruitment of the MMCT Biodiversity Program
Officer; carrying out a detailed baseline biodiversity and ecosystem survey and development of a
practical long-term monitoring plan, including indicators and methods of data collection and
analysis; implementation of urgent conservation actions identified in the Reserve Management
Plan (e.g., maintenance of boundaries and firebreaks, clearing of exotic plants at priority sites,
improved patrols, etc.); in collaboration with the Forest Research Institute of Malawi (FRIM) and
other local partners, developing a research strategy focused on generating the information and
tools needed to improve biodiversity conservation and management in the Reserve.
*  Environmental Education and Communications: The Environmental Education and
Communications Program Officer will develop and implement an environmental education and
communication program in collaboration with other stakeholders.
*  Co-management and Sustainable Livelihoods: Studies undertaken during project preparation
indicated both the need for greater community participation in the management and benefits of
the Reserve, and the difficulty of achieving this given the weak local institutional capacity and
structures to support collective decision-making and action. Implementation of the Govemnent's
co-management policy is also constrained by limited capacity within the Forestry Department, at



- 13 -
national, district and local levels. In view of this, the priority during Phase I will be to recruit the
MMCT Co-management and Livelihoods Program Officer, who will then identify specific needs
and opportunities and develop a strategy for supporting communities and the FD in these areas, to
complement work being carried out under other Government and donor-support programs. The
strategy will involve MMCT supporting local implementation partners, who will work with local
area institutions such as the Village Natural Resources Committees and/or resource-oriented user
groups. A few target groups and areas/resources will be selected for intensive support, including
the initiation of pilot co-management activities by Year 3. These pilot areas should be linked as
directly as possible with improving the management of biodiversity resources which are currently
under substantial threat. In order to demonstrate immediate, concrete benefits of MMCT to local
stakeholders, the Co-Management and Livelihoods Program Officer will work with the
Biodiversity Program Officer and the FD to ensure that implementation of direct conservation
activities generates as much local employment as possible.
* Establishment of the Endowment Fund and fund-raising: During Phase I, the MMCT will
put in place the necessary legal and institutional instruments for establishing an Endowment
Fund. The TMB (with assistance from the World Bank) will actively seek donors and
contributors to complement the GEF contribution to the MMCT. At the end of year 2 of Phase I, a
comprehensive review of the institutional capacity of the MMCT will be undertaken to assess the
progress in achieving the agreed "readiness" indicators (described below). When the indicators
have been achieved the endowment funds of US$5.5 million will be released to the agreed
professional Asset Manager who will manage the Trust based on an approved investment
strategy.
Indicators that Phase I has been successfully completed and Phase II should begin include the following:
(i) successful establishment and functioning of the Trust Administration Unit ( i.e. key positions of the
TAU filed, clean audits, acceptable 2 year workplan for the technical areas); (ii) establishment and
functioning of the Trust Management Board (i.e. regular Board meetings, application of the procedures
for Board members); (iii) implementation of the Reserve Management Plan ( zonal management strategy
has been adopted, program for cedar permitting and monitoring has been established, fire breaks are
established and maintained); (iv) development and launching of the fund raising strategy;
(v) demonstration of adequate FD presence and activity on the mountain (number of patrols,
co-management agreements established); and (vi) adequate allocation of operating funds by Government
of Malawi to FD and by FD to MMFR.
Phase II: The duration of Phase Two of the project is 4 years, representing the period during which the
World Bank will actively supervise project implementation. In fact, however, "Phase II" continues in
perpetuity, as the annual investment income from the Trust Fund (estimated US$300,000-350,000 per
year) is utilized to maintain the MMCT and implement its core activities, as follows:
(i)  Trust administration and support functions. Income from the Trust will support general
administration, financial asset management, outreach and external relations (local, national
and international), fundraising, and institutional overheads. Emphasis will be on achieving
the minimum ratio of administrative costs to program costs that is compatible with good
governance and achieving the Trust's objectives;
(ii) Continuation and Expansion of Core Program Activities. Income from the Trust will
support the continuation of the three core operational programs (Biodiversity Conservation,
Monitoring and Research; Co-Management and Sustainable Livelihoods; Environmental
Education and Communication). These programs will be continued, modified, reduced or
expanded, based on the information and experience gained in Phase 1. It is expected that:



- 14 -
the nature of direct biodiversity conservation activities should evolve from urgent protection
towards maintenance and restoration, and from species and site-specific intervention to
broader ecological management.. Research and monitoring activities will also emphasize
support for and evaluation of management practices and strategies;
the pilot co-management and livelihoods program will be expanded to broader
geographic/community coverage and greater diversity of activities; and
the environmental education and communications program will move from a focus on
identifying and delivering key messages to target audiences through MMCT activities,
towards institutionalizing the messages within existing educational and media structures for
ongoing impact.
For all programs, as for the MMCT overall, an adaptive management approach will be used to
ensure that information from intemal monitoring and evaluation and from independent reviews is
fed back to decision-making processes. Key indicators of success vs. need for change will be
improvements in biodiversity and ecosystem status and trends and reduction in threats, and
stakeholder satisfaction as expressed through the annual stakeholder forum and formal and
informal opinion surveys. Depending on needs identified and funds available, additional capital
investments may be considered (e.g., an EE Center or other infrastructure).
The GEF Grant Agreement will specify that the income from the GEF investment will continue to
support the incremental cost of activities that directly enhance biodiversity protection, including both
direct conservation activities and assistance for development of environmentally compatible altemative
livelihoods for rural populations who would otherwise bear the opportunity costs of enhanced
biodiversity protection. The income stream from the GEF grant therefore will not substitute for, but will
remain complementary to, continuing support from GOM, DFID and others to meet the ongoing costs of
meeting sustainable development objectives such as improving management of the reserve and its
surroundings as a forestry resource and watershed, general institutional strengthening for forest
management, and improving land use and management practices within the project area.
I:Edicative- J:i:  of:    GEF  %: ofGEF
Compolnt-            -    Stri:  Cots   To :       tal      fnding    fu di
=-  1- --1:   -L:L  ... . ... ....,
(USMY               '(USSM,    ____
Trust Administration          Environmental        0.58       7%         0.58       9%
Institutions
Biodiversity Conservation,    Other Environment    0.96       12%        0.40       6%
Research and Monitoring                                                       I
Environmental Education and   Other Education      0.14       2%         0.14       2.0
Communication
Forest Co-Management and      Natural Resources    0.86       11%        0.13       2%
Livelihoods                   Management
Conservation Trust Fund       Institutional         5.5      69%          5.5      81%
I Development
Total Project Costs                                 8.02     100%        6.75     100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Under the project, support will be provided to the environmental policy measures that have been
introduced in Malawi, particularly those relating to the forest sector. These relate to:



- 15 -
* Forest Act (1997): this instrument allows the involvement of community groups in decision-
making about the use of resources and also to ensure that they benefit from the use of resources.
Through the project, measures will be taken to obtain agreements/contracts from GOM to allow
communities who enter into co-management arrangements for Mulanje mountain, to share in the
proceeds from sustainable-use of these resources (e.g., cedar and NTFPs) where communities
would receive a certain percentage of the revenue generated by the FD. Legally, the FD has the
responsibility for the management of the Mulanje mountain resources, including allocating timber
permits for the extraction of dead logs. Through the project the FD will establish a system of
transparent issuing of these permits and monitoring of the Mulanje cedar timber extraction and
measures for regeneration.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit of the project is the improved conservation of the Mulanje Mountain ecosystem
through an innovative program in which a participatory conservation body - the Mulanje Mountain
Conservation Trust (MMCT) - will be established. The project will generate local, national and global
benefits from biodiversity conservation.
Local benefits will accrue to communities adjacent to the reserve through direct employment of
individuals and increased community participation in the conservation and management of the
biodiversity resources. The maintenance of ecological services (particularly watershed quality)
will benefit local agriculture, in particular, commercial tea plantations, which are a major source
of regional employment and income. Local benefits will also be generated through enhanced
sustainable resource management within the reserve and reduced pressure on biodiversity
resources. This will contribute to a more sustainable flow of non-timber forest products such as
medicinal plants and wild fruit, which contribute differentially to the health of the poorest
population segments. In some cases, compensation may be required where exclusion from
traditional resources in certain parts of the Reserve serves the interests of conservation of
globally important biodiversity. Maintaining the massif's unique biodiversity resources will
also be instrumental in developing the tourism potential and associated socioeconomic benefits.
The Forest Department and local communities will benefit from biodiversity education,
extension, and capacity building and support for direct conservation activities, many of which
will include community participation and employment. The project will contribute to the long-
term viability of conservation activities by stabilizing recurrent cost financing.
National benefits will mainly be generated through conservation of biodiversity and ecological
services that maintain watershed quality. The production and export of tea in the immediate
boundary area of the reserve, and other cash crops such as cotton in more distant areas will
contribute to national GDP. As well, by improving the ability of local communities to earn
income from sustainable harvesting of natural resources, the project will make modest
contributions to higher national income and poverty alleviation. Increased tourism in the reserve
will also make marginal contributions to national income.
Expected global benefits are focused on the conservation of regionally and locally endemic
species within their native habitats, and preservation of the unique Mulanje ecosystem that
characterizes eastern and southern Africa through effective landscape level, soil and watershed
management. One species, Prunus africana, has substantial potential global value as a
pharmaceutical to treat certain forms of prostate cancer. The maintenance of water quality of
major rivers from Mulanje headwaters flowing into Mozambique is a significant international
benefit. Finally, foreign tourists to the reserve will demonstrate global preferences to experience
the biodiversity values in the area.



- 16 -
Taken as a whole, the project offers the benefits and possibilities of demonstrating and testing a new
conservation model in Malawi which, based on preliminary enthusiasm and experiences, shows potential
for replication both locally.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project coordination and implementation
Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust (MMCT) The MMCT is a charitable entity incorporated in
Malawi as a Trust under the Trustees Incorporation Act. MMCT is exempt from tax and is a private
organization operating independently of government. The mandate of the MMCT is not to participate
directly in the reserve management, as this is the role and responsibility of the Forest Department and
local communities. Rather, the MMCT will promote effective and biodiversity compatible management
of the reserve by supporting: education/ extension; co-management in pilot areas of the forest reserve;
capacity building for the Forest Department and communities; and, by supporting specific actions and
activities identified in the Reserve Management Plan. The MMCT's management structure provides for
the participation of all the stakeholders - government departments, statutory bodies, local and
international NGOs and the local communities concemed with the conservation, management and
utilization of the natural resources of Mulanje Mountain. The proposed long term financial mechanism
supported by the project will operate as an endowment fund with the initial endowment capital provided
by the GEF in the end of year 2 of the project. Fund raising efforts to attract additional capital into the
endowment fund will be the responsibility of the Trust Administration Unit (TAU) Executive Director.
The Trust will be governed by an independent MMCT Board composed of individuals of high public
standing drawn from both civil society and govemment. The Bank will be consulted in the event that
there will be any proposed changes to the composition and selection criteria of the MMCT Board. The
composition of the Board will be as follows:
Ten Trustees who are the voting members with the Chairman holding a casting vote:
District Chief Executives or Councilors (2)
National Herbarium and Botanic Gardens, Director or permanent designated
delegate (1)
Academia (1)
NGOs, Executive Director or permanent designated delegate (2)
Smallholder tea Authority, Chairman or permanent designated delegate (1)
Independent members (3)
Twelve non-voting members:
Department of Forestry, Director or permanent designated delegate (1)
Forest Research Institute of Malawi, Director or pernanent designated delegate (1)
Chief from Mulanje and Phalombe Districts, one each chosen by all Chiefs (2)
MPs from Mulanje and Phalombe Districts, one from each district (2)
Department of Tourism, Director or permanent designated delegate (1)
Department of Water, Director or permanent designated delegate (1)
Department of Environmental Affairs, Director or permanent designated delegate (1)
Donor Agencies who are involved in the programs of MMCT (1)
The Executive Director of MMCT as Secretary to the Board (1)
Local Asset/Financial Advisor (1)
One of the independent members will be drawn from the business community and will be from either the
banking or financial sector to provide the Board with expertise on financial issues. The MMCT Board



- 17 -
will be responsible for the overall direction, governance, financial management (including decisions
regarding spending income from endowment investment) and monitoring of progress of the
Conservation Trust fund. A register of Technical Advisers, comprised of individuals selected in their
professional individual capacities, will be created and used by the TMB and TAU when advice on
technical issues is required. The basic operational rules and mechanisms of the MMCT will be defined
in the Trust Administration Manual.
Endowment funds will be invested off-shore and managed by a professional asset manager. A
professional Trust Administration Unit to be headed by the Executive Director will be established
under Phase I. The TAU will be responsible for the day-to-day operational activities of the Trust and
reportto the MMCT Board. The TAU will be responsible for project financial management, reporting
and auditing, following procedures as reflected in the Trust Administration Manual. Project accounts
will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit report will be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Detailed arrangements are
reflected in the Trust Administration Manual.
Other agencies/partners/co-financiers
Forestry Department (FD). The Forestry Department is currently responsible for the management of
the MMFR, but it lacks the required capacity and resources to manage the reserve and surrounding areas
and coordinate activities effectively. It is envisaged that the project will assist the Forestry Department's
capacity so that the Department can strengthen its core functions, particularly relating to revenue
collection, monitoring of timber licensing, extension and co-management, and implementation of
management activities specifically targeted to biodiversity conservation.
The Forest Department (with support from DFID and from MMCT through a GEF PDF-B preparation
grant) has prepared and adopted the Mt. Mulanje Reserve Management Plan. This Management Plan
incorporates a targeted biodiversity conservation plan which identifies locally and globally significant
biodiversity resources, the main threats to them and urgent actions needed to address those threats.
Studies undertaken during preparation of the Reserve Management Plan included: community
consultation and participation; forest productivity; timber utilization; non-timber forest products;
ecotourism; biodiversity assets; etc. The results of these studies have been incorporated into the
Management Plan, whose objectives include improving the interaction between the Reserve and
surrounding communities as well as conservation of biodiversity and ecosystem functions. The
Management Plan has been approved and adopted by Government and the planned DFID forestry sector
support program will provide resources to assist the FD to implement it. The Plan will therefore serve as
a basis for setting the broader context of Reserve management in which the MMCT will be operating.
DFID. DFID provided ca. $800,000 to support the development of the management plan for MMFR
and other project preparation studies and project activities. This support was directly linked to the
development of the GEF project proposal. It included consultancy support for elements such as the
institutional issues and social data.
In terms of future co-financing, DFID is currently implementing a 5-year (ca. 25 million dollars)
program of support to the Forestry Sector in Malawi. If successful, this will form part of a longer term
program of DFID support. The program currently includes support for privatization, decentralization
and the more effective delivery of services at a community level. These issues will be critical factors in
the success of the GEF project and the program will include capacity building support for district Forest
Departments, including Mulanje and Palombe. This support will directly support the implementation of
the Reserve management plan, and therefore the GEF project.



- 18 -
DFID has committed to support the project by providing ca US$ 500,000 for elements of the co-
management and livelihoods component. This will help consolidate the directly poverty-focused
elements of the Reserve management plan and complement support provided via the proposed Forest
Sector program. In the longer term, future DFID co-financing of livelihoods based activities around the
MMFR will be discussed based on joint appraisals of progress under Phase I, and progress of the wider
Forestry Sector restructuring program.
Surrounding Communities. In 1996/97, the Government of Malawi approved a new Forestry Policy
and Forestry Act, to allow the limited sustainable use of selected forest products by local communities in
specific areas, and to seek community involvement in the management of the forest reserves and their
surrounding areas. The target communities are defined as those which traditionally used the resources of
the reserves on a regular basis, and are identified through consultation with traditional leaders. This
approach has proven effective as the traditional use rights were well established in Malawi prior to the
period of centralized government control and are still popularly recognized. Therefore, the same
definition has been used to identify the key community stakeholders of the MMCT, who will also be the
main participants and beneficiaries of the conservation (employment), co-management and educational
programs. Overall, this comprises approximately 105,000 people living in ca. 100 villages located
within 5 km. of the Reserve boundary. The principle mechanism for community participation in co-
management is the Village Natural Resource Management Committee, which is appointed by the
respective community members. In addition, it is proposed that specialized resource-user groups (with
membership drawn from groups of neighboring villages) may be formed for management activities
focused on sustainable use of specific resources such as medicinal plants, thatch, hardwood for
handicrafts, etc. Some VNRMCs have been established in the project area, but they are generally not
functioning due to a lack of mobilization and training, and lack of motivation in the absence of specific
activities and resources to undertake them. This has been aggravated by a lack of capacity within the FD
staff, for which co-management is still a relatively new and poorly concept and approach. The highly
consultative process of project preparation has stimulated increased interest, and MMCT will build upon
this by providing support to appropriate NGOs to work with the target communities to enhance their
organization, knowledge and skills. It will also complement support being provided by other donors
(DFID, EU, GTZ, IDA) to strengthen FD capacity in co-management.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
M&E will provide the MMCT and other beneficiaries with data and information to measure progress,
determine whether the expected impacts are successful, and provide timely feedback to ensure that
problems are identified early in implementation and that appropriate actions are taken. M&E indicators
will be developed in accordance with guidelines for GEF-financed projects during Phase I of the project
and will measure project aspects such as: (i) ecological monitoring; (ii) co-management activities; and
(iii) institutional effectiveness.
The monitoring and evaluation of ecological and conservation impacts would examine the overall
changes and trends in the conservation status of the Mulanje Massif ecosystem and of keystone or focal
species. This would include the following elements: collection of baseline data on a specified set of
parameters to establish the starting condition; monitoring the status, change and trends in the indicators
over time and; evaluating the significance of changes and trends observed through the research and
studies program. Specific biological indicators to be included in the monitoring program will be defined
in year one of the project by the biodiversity conservation and research program officer in consultation
with the scientific team contracted to do the rapid baseline survey and assessment.



- 19 -
The socioeconomic and community assessments monitoring will focus on the effectiveness of the
project in: improving local perceptions of the Reserve and understanding of the global and local benefits;
implementing co-management, particularly in relation to the sustainable management of biodiversity
resources; the nature and quality of relations between local stakeholders and the FD and the MMCT; and
increasing the proportion of reserve benefits going to local communities.
The monitoring and evaluation of the overall institutional structure of the MMCT will focus on two
aspects: (i) the effectiveness of MMCT as a mechanism for providing long-term reliable funding for
conservation programs, and (ii) its effectiveness in enabling key stakeholders to decide jointly how best
to allocate the available funds to achieve conservation and related development objectives.
Project Review Arrangements: The project will be supervised by a World Bank team twice a year. A
Mid-Term Review (MTR) will be undertaken by the World Bank between 18 and 21 months after
project effectiveness. The primary objective of the MTR will be to assess the progress of the MMCT
towards achieving the agreed indicators for the release of the endowment funds for the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
As noted in Section B, item 3, the altemative of providing support directly to the Forest Department was
considered but rejected on the grounds that: (i) the project should be implemented by an entity that
represents all the key stakeholders, and (ii) the FD's primary mandate and objective is the sustainable
management of forest resources for economic development, rather than conservation of the globally
important biodiversity of the massif. The alternative of a limited term project was rejected in favor of the
proposed Conservation Trust on the grounds that the threats to the massif' s biodiversity and therefore the
conservation activities needed to help counter them, are long-term in nature and require a reliable, long
term response.
The rationale for GEF funding of this project is that it will improve the protection and management of
endangered or threatened species and indigenous forests under a program of collaborative management
that explicitly includes rural communities as full parties to the management strategies and activities.
Specifically, it will provide the necessary support to engage and build capacity within the FD and among
communities for long-term conservation and ecologically sustainable management of the globally
important biodiversity of the Mulanje massif. Malawi ratified the Global Convention on Biological
Diversity in 1992. The project supports the objectives of the Convention and is consistent with the GEF
Operational Strategy, especially the operational programs on Forest and Mountain Ecosystems. The
project is also consistent with Conference of the Parties COP) guidance as it focuses on conservation and
sustainable use of critical ecosystems and threatened endemic species, and supports the active
involvement of local communities as co-managers and beneficiaries of better forest management. It
responds to COP-3 guidance through promoting conservation and sustainable use through capacity
building, economic incentives and alternative livelihood opportunities for local communities. In short,
the GEF would serve a catalytic role in providing Malawi with the resources to develop a rational
structure for managing Mulanje mountain forest reserve in a manner that preserves its biodiversity value.
GEF support through the PDF-B has leveraged support from DFID for improved forest reserve
management, and it is expected that successful implementation of the project will continue to leverage
additional resources in the future for the Mulanje reserve and, by example, perhaps others in Malawi's
forest reserve and wildlife reserve system. Equally important, the GEF support in the form of an ongoing
Trust Fund will leverage continued commitment on the part of the stakeholders, both to ensure that the
Trust meets its objectives and to support those objectives through their own activities.



- 20 -
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
i E: : E E :; : ; E i E E E : E i E E; Z i0Latest Supervision(PSR)
Sector Issue                     Project                  p        onLy)
Bank-financed                                                  Implementation   Development
Progress (IL)   Objective (DO)
Environment                       Environmental Management          U             U
Project
Biodiversity Conservation          SADC Lake Malawi/Nyasa           S             S
Biodiversity Conservation
Project
Other development agencies
DFID- Environment                  Strategic Plan for the Mulanje
Massif
USAID - Environment                COMPASS Program
DANIDA                             Lake Chilwa Wetland and
Catchment Management
Project;
District Environmental
Capacity Building
GTZ                                Rehabilitation of River Banks,
Social Forestry
European Union                     Forestry Sector
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The highly successful GEF-sponsored Uganda Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation
Trust (MBIFCT) project has provided significant lessons for this project ranging from best practices for
consultation with local communities and stakeholders during the design and preparation phase of the
project to the appropriate institutional structure and function of the various institutional components. This
was achieved both by review of MBIFCT written documentation and through a site visit by several
members of the MMCT Board and preparation team. Some aspects of the MMCT have been modeled on
the MBIFCT, for example the multi-stakeholder Trust Management Board and its relationship to the Trust
Administration Unit. However, it was also recognized that the design and operation of MMCT must take
into account significant differences in the contexts and conditions under which the two are operating. For
example, the MBIFCT aims to provide alternative income and a degree of compensation to communities
which have been entirely excluded from the two national parks, whereas MMCT aims to facilitate
community participation in sustainable management of biological resources within a Forest Reserve to
which they have continued access. In addition, the prospects for income generation from sustainable use
of biodiversity are lower in the Mulanje area than in SW Uganda, and the level and experience of political
organization at the local level is substantially lower in Malawi than in Uganda, with decentralization of



- 21 -
government authority to elected bodies at the District level just being introduced. These considerations
have helped to shape the MMCT's approach to community participation and support, such that it will
emphasize employment generation (in conservation activities) and capacity building for co-management
rather than financing community micro-projects. The MMCT institutional structure has also been
simplified relative to that of MBIFCT in view of the more limited individual and institutional capacity.
This project will provide an opportunity to see how the successful MBIFCT model can be adapted to meet
similar conservation challenges under different circumstances.
While co-management is just being introduced as the central approach within the Forestry sector, there
have been some pilot programs over the past 10 years, following up on an experimental program of the
Forest Research Institute of Malawi, financed by DFID (formerly ODA). While implementation and
official recognition have been slow overall, several of these pilot sites have successfully established co-
management of forest areas. There are also several ongoing donor-funded initiatives (GTZ, EU, IDA)
supporting capacity building for co-management within the Forest Department. These are largely site-
specific and none currently target the Mt. Mulanje Forest Reserve (a gap which the MMCT aims to help
fill), but they provide useful guidance for the co-management capacity-building component of this
project. For example, it was decided that MMCT should support NGOs to provide capacity building
directly to communities in addition to working with the FD, and that the co-management support should
be built around a limited number of specific pilot projects to ensure that there are activities on the ground
as soon as possible.
Malawi has also gained valuable experience in involving local communities in natural resource
management through projects in other sectors. One particularly successful example is the GTZ-sponsored
Lake Malombe community-based fisheries management pilot project which empowered traditional
leaders and their subjects to play a self-regulatory role in fisheries management, such as ensuring that
appropriate fishing gear (with correct net sizes) is used. This has resulted in a recovery phase in the
fisheries and a change in attitude of the communities towards sustainability. The success of the program
has been attributed to both empowering local communities as well as providing effective community
education. Both these lessons have been incorporated into the design of the MMCT. Another co-
management project which has been ongoing for a longer time is the GTZ-funded Bee-keeping Project in
the Nyika National Park and the Vwaza Wildlife Reserve, which involves adjacent communities
harvesting non-timber products and honey from the parks. The MMCT project will build on this
experience in both the designing and implementation of the community biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use programs.
The World Bank-financed Malawi Environmental Management Project is also supporting community-
based environmental and natural resource management, including support for community groups to
implement activities to improve local environmental conditions. The pilot phase of this component has
just been completed and a follow-up phase is being initiated, taking into account the enhanced role of
District level institutions under the Govemment's decentralization policy. Lessons from the pilot phase
particularly relevant to the MMCT relate to community mobilization and capacity building, the use and
limitations of PRA for identifying appropriate environmentally-oriented activities, and mechanisms for
collaboration with NGOs and community-based organizations.
The lessons from these projects are generally corroborated in the November 1995 World Bank report,
Mainstreaming Biodiversity in Development: a World Bank Assistance strategy for implementing the
Convention on Biological Diversity, and by the 1996 Bank report GEFPilot Phase Portfolio Project
Implementation Review which support the need for (a) independent professional management of financial
accounts, (b) more creative cooperation among implementing agencies and other global organizations
working in the field of biodiversity; (c) provision for long preparation time required to achieve regional
collaboration and build local ownership; (d) participation by local communities in productive activities



- 22 -
especially in buffer zones; and (e) ensuring early on that the implementing agency understands
Bank/GEF procedures and guidelines. The design of this MMCT project has taken into account the
recommendations detailed in these and other reports.
The GEF Evaluation of Experience with Conservation Trust Funds identifies certain key conditions
associated with trust fund success, including intemal and external factors that contribute to the fund's
ability to become a viable institution and achieve its mission. Four of these were identified as critical, and
they are in place for the MMCT:
(a) A commitment of at least 10-15 years
The individuals who came together to initiate the MMCT are all Malawians who have a long-
term interest and commitment to the Mulanje massif and its biodiversity, either from a
background of academic research or ecotourism or as members of the local community. They
have all contributed considerable time in project preparation, without compensation except for
occasional travel costs, and they remain committed to seeing the program launched and
implemented successfully as a Trust in perpetuity. The Government's commitment is also long
term as Mulanje represents an essential economic resource at both national and local levels. This
commitment will be manifested in the Government's agreement to ensure the future integrity of
the Mulanje reserve. DFID has also indicated its commitment for long term support to the
Forestry sector, which is an important base upon which the incremental GEF activities are built.
Finally, although the actual period of the GEF project, and therefore active World Bank
supervision, is only seven years, the Bank is committed to long-term support to the natural
resources management sector in Malawi, which will enable the technical support to continue
beyond that period on an informal basis.
(b) Active government support for a public-private sector mechanism outside government
control:
The Government of Malawi has been fully supportive of the creation and MMCT and has
endorsed the proposed role that has been established for the Trust in the conservation of Mt.
Mulanje. This is demonstrated, for example, by the participation of FD ongoing and very positive
collaboration between FD and the MMCT in the preparation activities and development of the
Forest Reserve Management Plan. Finally, GOM willingness to devolve control is demonstrated
by its new Forestry Policy and Act, which introduced the principle of co-management.
(c) A critical mass ofpeople from diverse sectors of society who can work together despite their
different approaches to biodiversity conservation and sustainable development;
The MMCT Board which has been actively involved in the preparation activities for the GEF
funding was made up of three Trustees who were the only voting members, and 12 non-voting
members. The new constitution will nominate ten Trustees who will be the voting members,
three independent, two from NGOs, two from Local Government, one from the Smallholders Tea
Agency, one from the Herbarium and one from Academia. There will also be twelve non-voting
members.
(d) A basic fabric of legal andfinancial practices and supporting institutions (including banking,
auditing and contracting) in which people have confidence:
Malawi has in place the necessary laws for establishment of a Trust Fund, including legal
remedies for beneficiaries who believe their interests are not being adequately represented. There



- 23 -
are also adequate regulations and capacity for auditing and accounting practices and banking, and
a number of World Bank-financed projects are making use of private firms for auditing or
financial management support. There is also useful precedent and experience within Bank-
financed projects (e.g., Environment Management Project; Malawi Social Action Fund) of
community groups assuming responsibility for management of and accounting for resources
provided for the benefit of the community at large benefit.
Most of the other "success conditions" are also present, as discussed in previous sections, e.g.: (i) the
existence of a valuable, globally significant biodiversity resource whose conservation is politically,
technically, economically, and socially feasible (given that the GEF resources will build upon a larger
base of strong support for improving management of the Mulanje reserve, and promoting sustainable use
of the area's natural resources), and which requires long-term support; (ii) mechanisms in place to
involve a broad set of stakeholders during the design process, and willingness of stakeholders to use these
mechanisms (as evidenced by the consultative processes underway for development of the Reserve
Management Plan and the MMCT project); (iii) "mentors" supporting the Fund's establishment and
operations (the already established relationship with the Bwindi Trust in Uganda and to be established
with the Cape Peninsula Trust in South Africa, as well as access to the broader GOM program of
developing co-management of forest and wildlife resources, which is being supported by a number of
donors and NGOs around the country); and (iv) an effective demand for the fund's product (the demand
is there in terms of the interests and needs of the stakeholders, although the MMCT will need to help
mobilize this demand effectively through its community capacity building activities in Phase 1).
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Government of Malawi (GOM), through the Ministry of Forestry, Fisheries and Enviromnental
Affairs (MoFFEA), is a signatory to many regional and international biodiversity conventions which
provide a conceptual framework for this project. The GOM has given strong support to MMCT. At its
inception in 1991, the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust (MMCT) organizing committee was chaired
by the Forestry Department (FD), with the National Herbarium and Botanical Gardens of Malawi
(NHBGM, a statutory corporation) providing the Secretariat. The Wildlife Society of Malawi (WSM) and
the Department of Biology of the University of Malawi at Chancellor College also invested considerable
time and effort in creating the Trust since 1991. The MMCT received, as well, the full support and
assistance of the Mulanje District Administration and District Council. The MMCT constitution was
prepared with the assistance of the Ministry of Justice and presented to the people of Mulanje and the
agencies working in the District at a three-day workshop which comprised traditional and political
authorities and prominent representatives held in September 1993, where it received their unanimous
endorsement, together with recommendations for the Trust's actions. The FD, NHBGM, WSM, and the
University sit on the Board and continue to contribute towards making MMCT a reality. The country is
committed to key sector reforms, and willingness to borrow for these reforms is a clear indication of
commitment. Over the years, the Bank has established a comprehensive dialogue with the GOM,
especially the MoFFEA, and also with MMCT.
The Government of Malawi, acknowledging the need for the MMCT to help preserve the Mulanje
ecosystem, requested the GEF through the World Bank in June, 1995 to provide assistance for the project.
A Project Preparation Grant, requested by the Government of Malawi in August 1996, was approved by
the GEFSEC in December 1996. The GEF grant, with additional support and collaboration from DflD,
funded the project preparation activities which included the following: community conservation
awareness and resource use/surveys; the identification of sustainable use initiatives for implementation by
the communities under forest co-management arrangements; surveys on timber utilization, non-timber
forest products, and eco-tourism potential. As a key indicator of commitment and ownership, it should be
noted that during this whole project preparation period, until the PDF became available, the MMCT had



- 24 -
no financial resources, and depended on the sponsorship of the National Herbarium and Botanical
Gardens of Malawi for very modest resources for transport and costs for meetings. Many of the Board
members contributed their spare time and out of pocket expenses to attend meetings, respond to
correspondence, and interact with the World Bank and other agencies.
In summary, there is widespread realization in government that improved forest management,
conservation and environmental protection of Mulanje Mountain are an important component of a
sustainable and ultimately successful development process. An endorsement letter requesting GEF
support to the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust has been provided by the Ministry of Finance.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The World Bank has recognized the value of trusts as an instrument for providing long-term support for
biodiversity conservation. It has been a leader in supporting the establishment of conservation trusts in
Africa and has gained valuable experience through these operations. In Malawi, the Bank has developed
strong and positive relationships with international and local NGOs and the donor community involved in
natural resource management. Tlle value added of the Bank's support lies in providing technical support
for preparation and implementation, supervision capacity, strengthening linkages between MMCT and the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and mobilizing additional support from bilateral donors
and other partners.
A number of bilateral donors and other organizations (e.g., DFID, GTZ, DANIDA, EU, OXFAM) are
currently involved in supporting improved forest resource management and sustainable livelihoods in the
Mulanje area. GEF support will ensure that biodiversity conservation is an explicit objective of the
natural resource management in this globally significant ecosystem. The threats to the biodiversity in this
region are persistent and growing. Providing GEF support in the form of a Trust will ensure the
continued financial resources to manage the biological resources and address these threats.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Incremental Cost NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
See Incremental Cost Analysis of GEF-financed activities (Annex 4)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
3. Technical:
Least cost methods of: (a) protection of the Mulanje Cedar; (b) eradication of invasive species;
(c) selection and deign of systems for monitoring and enforcement in mountain operations; and
(d) facilitating community participation and involvement in forest co-management and conservation.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Weakness of the Forestry Department (FD) is of major concern as the FD is an important partner in
implementing the project. Project activities include institutional strengthening of the FD in those aspects
that MMCT will need for effective project implementation, particularly community relations and co-
management, and biodiversity conservation planning and activities. Implementation of community-
based activities will be through the Village Natural Resource Committees and other community based
organizations, which are in place but require strengthening. The Program Officers of the TAU will



- 25 -
develop relevant programs to achieve the objectives of MMCT and will then work through the FD,
appropriate NGOs and consultants to assist them with carrying out the program. The TAU with the
approval of the TMB will make grants to the agencies selected for the operational work and the Program
Officers will closely supervise the implementation of the work. The TAU will be responsible for all
procurement under the proposed project and they will use standard bank procurement procedures.
4.2 Project management:
The operations of the project will be overseen by the MMCT Board through the TAU. The Headquarters
will be established in the Mulanje project area. Activities financed under the project will be co-ordinated
by the TAU. The project will create a register of Technical Consultants to advise the Board and TAU on
technical issues. The Program Officers will identify suitable partners (FD, NGOs, CBOs) and make
grants to them for the implementation of their respective programs.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None.
4.4 Financial management issues:
None.
5. Environmental:
Environmental Category: C
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Inadequate arable land is a serious problem and a source of rural poverty in much of Malawi. In Mulanje,
land shortage is aggravated by the fact that large areas of the best land are occupied by tea estates. While
employment on the estates is an important source of local income, it is low paying and seasonal labor.
Over 50% of households on the estates have less than 0.25 ha of land for food production and deplete
their food stocks within four months of harvest. This has led to agricultural encroachment in the more
accessible (less steep) areas of the Reserve, and continuing encroachment is a major threat to some of the
Reserve's biodiversity, particularly the mid-altitude indigenous forest. However, according to the Land
Utilization study, earlier realignments have brought the Reserve boundary to the edges of very steep
slopes, and only 2.7% of the current Reserve area (mostly in the north) could be suitable for agriculture.
The rest of the area presents very serious erosion risks. A number of NGOs are supporting "food
security" projects in the area aimed at improving agricultural productivity through extension and credit
services and inputs, but with a population density already 19% above the national average and rapidly
growing, there is clearly a limit to the potential for meeting peoples' livelihood needs through agriculture
in this area.
Communities bordering and near the Reserve supplement their livelihoods and income with a wide
variety of natural products including fuelwood, mushrooms, fruit, thatching grass, bamboo, medicinal
plants, small game (increasingly scarce in most of the area), hardwoods for carving, etc. Fuelwood is
collected mainly from the lower elevation miombo woodlands which are not highly significant in terms of
global biodiversity value, but present a good potential for development of more productive and profitable
sustainable utilization through better management and organization (this is expected to be a major focus
of the DFID programn in the area). Many of the other natural products come from the mid-altitude



- 26 -
indigenous forests which are of high biodiversity significance, have already been significantly reduced
and fragmented, and are far more susceptible to over-exploitation and degradation. Any utilization of
these resources through co-management programs would have to be closely monitored and controlled,
and should be supplemented by initiatives to restore depleted natural populations and ex-situ cultivation.
The high altitude Mulanje cedar is very valuable but is currently harvested primarily by outsiders licensed
by the Forest Department. Local benefits are in the form of limited and low-paying employment mainly
for carrying boards down the mountain. Local community members indicate they would like to
participate more in this industry but lack the capital needed to obtain and utilize the cedar licenses
themselves. It is proposed that one of the initial pilot co-management projects focus on enabling a few
community groups to restore and manage some of the degraded areas of cedar forest. (Improved overall
management of cedar harvesting is essential and will be an important indicator of the FD's capacity and
commitment for better management of the MMFR, thereby justifying the movement to Phase II of the
project).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Strong participation from diverse stakeholders, including govemment, civil society, the private sector and
communities surrounding the mountain, are central to the success of the project. Project preparation
involved extensive consultations and stakeholder participation, and this will be continued during project
implementation. As part of project preparation, DFID and the GEF PDF-B grant supported extensive
community consultations and socio-economic studies to elucidate local institutional structures and
communities' use of timber anid non-timber Reserve resources. The consultation process was organized
in three phases: Phase I - Definition of Usage Zone - consultations were conducted with various
stakeholders including local communities (500 people) line ministries (10) and NGOs (7). Phase I
provided details of the scope and kind of resource use. Phase II - Perceptions of the Forest and its
Resources - consultations were conducted to determine peoples perceptions of the use and state of the
forest reserve and its natural resources as well as perceptions of participatory development and
community based management of the forest reserve (650 people). Phase III - Social and Political
Structure of the Communities and Resource Use - PRAs involving 1700 people were conducted to
validate information collected in Phase II and to map the use of resources, kinship relationships, access to
resources etc. Results have provided important information on current management practices, sources of
conflict between the FD and communities and among different forest product users within the
community, and opportunities to develop more sustainable use practices and more equitable participation
in benefits from the mountain. Implementation of the Govemment's decentralization policy will
introduce new factors, including a greater role and increased authority of the District Forest Office as
well as the relative roles of hereditary traditional authorities and elected local and district councils in
relation to natural resource management. It is essential for the MMCT to maintain the flexibility to work
within a changing local social and political context, while retaining its essential focus and operating
principles.
Identification/ Preparation phase  Project Start-up Phase  Implementation Phase
Beneficiaries/Community       COLICON                COL/CON            COL/CON
Groups
Intermediary NGOs             COL/CON                COL/CON            COL/CON
Local Govemnment              COL/CON                CON/COL            COL/CON
Academic Institutions         COL/CON                COL/CON            COL/CON
Other Donors                  COL/CON                CON/COL            COL/CON
Bank                          CON/COL                CON/COL            CON/COL
COL = collaborated; CON = consulted



- 27 -
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                             Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           No
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The establishment of the MMCT specifically aims to overcome the common problem of lack of
sustainability of funds for conservation activities in traditional projects. The establishment of a
Conservation Trust Fund will ensure that a dependable and constant stream of income will be available to
cover recurrent costs in perpetuity. The sustainability of the project will depend on three main issues: (1)
appropriate and effective management of the Conservation Trust Fund to ensure that financial resources
are available; (2) the soundness of the institutional structure of the Trust including the functional
relationship between the TAU and the Board, and their accountability to the stakeholders; and (3)
commitment and ownership by the beneficiaries and stakeholders to implement the conservation related
activities established under the project.
Risks
The main risks relating to the project would include:
*  lack of Forest Department capacity or commitment to effectively manage the MMFR and
maintain its biodiversity and ecological values;
* failure of MMCT govemance structure and institutional bodies to function effectively;
* failure of fund-raising efforts to increase the capital of the Trust Fund to a level where its
investment income can sustain an adequate level of activity to achieve the anticipated
conservation benefits;
local stakeholders expectations exceed what MMCT can provide in terms of assistance and of
what MMFR can provide in terms of resources on a sustainable basis.
* GOM/private sector promote development programs incompatible with Reserve Management
Plan.



- 28 -
Given the strong commitment on the part of the stakeholders who set it up and the strong support from
Government, and the consultative process that has been followed and will be continued in establishing the
Trust mechanisms and procedures, there is only a risk that the institutional mechanism will fail to
function properly, or that the specific activities to be funded by the Trust will not be implemented
effectively. The much greater risk is in relation to the expectations of the local communities with respect
to what the MMCT can provide in terms of financial assistance and what the MMFR can provide in terms
of resources extracted on a sustainable basis. There is a risk that the MMCT project activities will be not
be adequate to have a measurable positive impact, in view of the underlying factors which threaten the
massif's biodiversity, i.e. population growth, poverty and land insecurity. It is recognized that the
MMCT activities will build upon other important initiatives in the area that are also aimed at addressing
these underlying causes of unsustainable natural resource use, and consequently of biodiversity loss.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk               R   Rating             Rs Mitigati..................on.....  e a u e . I
From Outputs to Objective
See Annex 1
From.Components to Outputs
Lack of Forest Department           S       Support for building FD capacity and strengthening
capacity or commitment to                   policy under this project and others (DFID, GTZ,
effectively manage the MMFR                 EU, etc.), includes major sectoral program which
and to maintain its biodiversity            emphasizes sustainable resource management and
and ecological values, or to                co-management aspects; FD has participated
collaborate with MMCT in these              actively in design of MMCT and project
objectives.                                 preparation and expressed strong commitment to it;
intemational support for MMCT will increase local
and national appreciation of the significance of
Mulanje's biodiversity;
Lack of implementation partners    M        Preparation phase identified some prospective
(NGOs) willing and able to                  partners in all aspects; program budgets will include
collaborate with MMCT in                    provisions for strengthening partners; number of
carrying out biodiversity, co-              program activities will be limited in Phase 1;
management/ livelihoods and
EE&C programs.
Local stakeholders' expectations    S       Community-oriented activities of MMCT will focus
exceed what MMCT can provide                on co-management of MMFR resources, and will
in terms of assistance, and what            not include "micro-projects" or "income generating
MMFR can provide in terms of                activities" which typically raise unrealistic
resources on a sustainable basis.           expectations. EE&C component will communicate
MMCT's objectives and limitations and stress the
finiteness and importance of sustainable use of
MMFR resources. MMCT will generate some local
employment (highly valued by local stakeholders),
directly and clearly linked with conservation
activities;



- 29 -
Risk               Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure  ..
structures and institutional bodies        government have demonstrated commitment during
to function effectively, e.g., due to      the long preparation period; Board members are
lack of knowledge, experience or           drawn from public, private and NGO sectors; Phase
commitment by Board members;               1 will focus on capacity building, including training
political interference, etc.               and TA to assist Board members and staff to
understand and fulfill their roles; movement to
Phase 2 (release of capital endowment) will depend
on key institutional performance indicators;
MMCT's endowment will not be       M        DFID Forestry Sector support program will provide
adequate to generate an income              substantial co-financing particularly for
stream sufficient to support               implementation of co-management/ sustainable
critical conservation and co-               livelihoods aspects of MMCT programs; Phase 1
management activities.                      activities and objectives will include active fund-
raising, and demonstrating effectiveness of MMCT
in order to attract support; administrative and
program costs are kept as low as possible to match
realistic expectations of income stream from the
anticipated endowment.
Overall Risk Rating                m
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Receipt of written assurance that the integrity of the MMFR will be maintained and there will be no
further reduction in its size.
Trust Administration Manual and MMCT Constitution approved and adopted.
The MMCT Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Recipient and MMCT
H. Readiness for Implementation
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of proiect
implementation.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
i   Itjthalle Weiy Jo/hnson           R                                    (
-eam LeaderSRger C. Sullivn                                Cohann s
Team Leader                   Sector Manager             Acting Country Director



- 30 -
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ifi...4   ... . ....,gji. EE  )gi. .E. g.i  i     .  :.E  F       i:. :;    :    :   
- - Hierarcly of           Key Pe    rmance               Moitoring &               Crnitical   sum ptions.
O ectives:                    I ndicators                  Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank mission)
Support sustainable          Increased IDA and GEF          GOM budget and programs;  Existence of strong political
management of natural        assistance for lending and non- IDA/GEF pipeline           will and commiitment to ensure
resources vital to Malawi' s    lending services in natural                             sustainable use and
economic growth and          resources management and                                   management of natural
environmental protection.    biodiversity conservation                                  resources
GEF Operational Program:
Biodiversity conservation and Trends of degradation/loss of   Biodiversity monitoring   Improved overall management
sustainable use in a mountain  biodiversity halted or reversed  data;                   of MMIFR
ecosystem which is under
increasing human pressure    Sources/impact of human        Forest Department reports;
and imminent threat of       pressure reduced               Cmuiyattd  uvy
degradation                  (encroachment, over-           Community attitude surveys
exploitation, fire, spread of
invasive alien spp.)
:: :;. t: . :.;::::............      ...............   . -   ....   .   .... - -...               ............,,,;      tE   -   ;;;   :E!i!iLL:)   t   } 
Hierarc.-  of              Key Performance                Moitorin e&               Ct       ::ical IA smptions
Obj .Mectives       :         Indi:.. . :- cators          E valuation:::
i                                                                        i  E  . E.E  -   -i   !   ...... -- E E - i .f ....... i E.-. iE iER i E.: i iE- i i i i i i i ....................... i E EE i E ... - .i E. .   . . . . . .   . . .   . . . .   .
Global Objective:            Outcome / Impact               Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
1) Maintain Mulanje          Biodiversity conservation     Biodiversity monitoring
Mountain ecosystem,          aspects of MMFR Mgmt. Plan  program
including globally significant  under implementation        Mapping of encroached
biodiversity and vital
ecological services.         Ecosystem of MMFR              areas and ecological
maintained m good condition   monitonng
2) Increase awareness,       Communuity knowledge and       Community attitude surveys
understanding and            appreciation increased re target ID field reports
appreciation of the value of   messages;
the Mulanje Mountain         Decrease in FD/Community    FD operating budget for
ecosystem, at local and      conflict relating to Reserve   lvIFR,
access and use                Documents establishing tax
Allocation of funds for
Reserve mgmt. (through Forest
Fund and other mechs., e.g.,
water users tax)
3) Improve sustainability of   Proportion of MMFR           Co-management agreements
biological resource use and    resources under co-          (FD/Community)
enhance the value of the MM   management                    Reports of Co-Mgmt./
ecosystem to local                                          Livelihoods Programn Officer
conmmunities



- 31 -
Hierarchy of:            Key Performance              Monitoring &           Critical Assumptions
Objectives.                 Indicators                Evaluation
4) Establish long-term     Effective biodiversity      M&E reports from
income stream and          conservation program        components
institutional capacity to  maintained over time in the           . .
ensure continuation of 1-3;   face of changing circumstances WB supervision reports
MMCT appreciated and       Local stakeholders' aware of   Awareness/attitude surveys
respected by stakeholders at  and positive towards MMCT   MMCT financial statements,
local, national and        and its objectives          annual progress reports
international levels       Contributions to the MMCT    GEF and WB reports,
Demonstrate the            (operating costs and/or     biodiversity conservation
appropriateness of         endowment)                  literature
Conservation Trust Fund as   MMCT cited as positive
fiancing mechanism for     example and model by GEF
biodiv. Conservation       and other conservation
supporters
Output:from each           OutputIndicatori:           Project reports:      (from Outputs to Objective.)
Co: --p         omonnt:  ....
1) Good baseline, monitoring  Biodiversity/ecosystem   Biodiversity/ecosystem    FD committed to biodiversity
and research information   baseline completed;         baseline completed;       conservation as a major
available to FD to improve     ...                          .objective of MMFR
MMFR  management           Practical long-term monitoring Practical long-term    management
program approved and initiated molitoring program
FD staff trained and equipped Biodiversity consenation  approved and initiated   Political will for improving
to protect and manage      necds/actions reflected in  Biodiversity conservation    MMFR management
biodiversity         MMFR management plan and  needs/actions reflected in    FD has capacity (qualified
Local employment generated  FD armual work plans, and  MMFR management plan    personnel, operational
through conservation actions  being carried out by FD, with  and FD annual work plans,  resources) to effectively
community employment        and being carried out by  manage MMFR; GOM and
FD, with community        donor support (esp. DFID)
employment               provided
2) Env. Education and      Key messages and            Strategic documents, TMB   Capable implementation
Communications strategy and educational/communication    approval reflected in   partners available and
program developed and      approaches identified       minutes                   interested in collaborating with
ongoing                    Agreement(s) with           MOUs or Grant Agreements MMCT
implementation partner(s)                       ,    Messages identified which are
established                 EE&C Program Officer s    relevant to stakeholders' needs,
reports                   and stakeholders are receptive
Requests made to MMCT for                            to information provided
information
3) Improved FD and         VNRMCs and other relevant   Co-Mgmt. & Livelihoods    FD at all levels committed to
community capacity to      community structures        Program Officer's reports   co-management policy
implement co-management   established and operational;    NGO Implementation     Validity of the Co-
policy in MMIFR (trained,    Forest resource co-       partner reports           management approach
organized, equipped);      management pilot activities
Co-management pilot projects underway (up to 4 in Phase 1)  FD reports           Local/District level support for
community-based resource
mgmt.
Viable sustainable resource
use opportunities identified



- 32 -
| }00000 Sg  HieraHrchty TSof ggKey  Performance              Monitoring &               Critical Assumptions
Ob hctve  fndicatorsEvaluatio
... . -  EiS...... EiSi ..i ...i eiEifEfEE ....  E !!.tRiijjDEDi E ;i     :   ::d:    E :i ii r  E:ET   i :iC ::i........................ .. .. ...... .... ....  .. . ..... ... .. ...   .... A T .-   .  y  ri g
4) MMCT institutional          TMB and TAU fulfilling their  Minutes of meetings, Audit  Local, District and National
structure established and      functions as outlined in TAM    reports, WB supervision      Governmnent support MMCT
operational                              .reports interviews with key   objectives, do not politicize it
Sufficient icome to            officials
MMCT adequately endowed   implement priority                                                Board Members/Trustees
.                ~~~~biodiversity conservation                                 committed to objectives and
Collective knowledge of        aspects of MMIFR Mgmt. Plan                                  devote suf ficient time
strengths/weaknesses,
functional requirements of     MMCT Design,                                                 GEF and other donors provide
Conseration Trust Funds       implementation and                                            adequate financial support (for
enhanced                       supevnision documents                                        operations and endowment)
requested and used by others                                 Adequate W        rB and GEF
follow-up during
implementation (to facilitate
good performance and to
identify lessons to be learned)



- 33 -
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
The project has five major components (including capitalization of the Trust Fund itself) which will
benefit from GEF financing. Each component will provide the necessary technical and financial
assistance to develop institutional and management capacity within MMCT, within the Forestry
Department and, through the Program Officers and collaborating NGOs, within the local communities.
The following provides a more detailed description of the financing structure of the project, i.e. the
objectives and activities of Phase I and Phase II, as well as the preparatory phase, now largely completed,
which was financed partly by the GEF and partly by DFID and others:
Preparatory Phase: Activities to establish the CTF were undertaken. The expenditures reflected in the
budget for this (US$300,000 from GEF plus an equivalent amount from DFID, University of Malawi,
National Herbarium and Botanic Gardens of Malawi, and the Wildlife Society of Malawi) generally
represent one-time, ground-laying costs including technical support. During the preparation period, the
MMCT Board, with the assistance of the Program Coordinator and contracted specialists, developed an
investment strategy and guidelines, prepared a proposal for selecting an asset manager and establishing
financial audit and control systems to international standards. Other preparation activities included:
(1) completion of an Administration Manual to define/clarify procedures and operations for the MMCT
and its bodies; (2) formalization of cooperative working relationships with key national and local
governmental entities; (3) studies including community consultation and participation, forest productivity,
timber utilization, non-timber forest products, ecotourism, and institutional development and
organizational strengthening. These studies were undertaken to support the preparation of the Reserve
Management Plan and were financed primarily by DFID.
The consultative preparation of the Reserve Management Plan, which has been completed and adopted by
the GOM and the Forest Department, included the following activities:
-  identification of the significant biological resources of Mulanje mountain and the threats and
trends on these resources;
*  development of appropriate management objectives from information collected;
*  development of strategies for habitat management, including a proposed zoning plan;
*  development of a proposed implementation program involving activities such as pilot co-
management projects, environmental education, livelihood enhancement, ecological research and
monitoring, essential infrastructure and equipment for FD, and strengthening FD management
capacity and external relations.
Phase I: Phase I of the project will support capacity building activities at various levels to develop and
strengthen an enabling environment for project implementation. Some aspects of implementation will
also commence including the baseline data collection under the biodiversity component as well as pilot
projects under the Co-management and Livelihoods component. The budget for this phase totals
US$1.25 million. Phase I will commence when the project is declared effective, which is expected to be
in June 2002, and will last for three years. The following activities will be undertaken:
* Trust Administration: this activity includes office accommodation, staffing and training.
Project offices will be rented during the first two years, in the third year there will be provision in
the budget for construction of offices. The release of those funds will depend on the agreement to
proceed to Phase II and construction being shown to be a satisfactory economic alternative to



- 34 -
renting. Staff to be recruited are the Executive Director, three Program Officers, an Accountant,
a Secretary and support staff. The administrative arrangements for the implementation of the
project will also be established under this component, including the finalization of criteria for
disbursing and supervising sub-grants to the FD and collaborating NGOs as approved by the
Board. The Trust Administration Manual will provide guidelines for all MMCT procedures.
Training activities will provide the TMB, the TAU and the FD staff with the skills needed for
implementation of the project.
Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring: During Phase I, the emphasis will be
on development of capacity, strategies and action plans, and implementation of some urgent
actions on the ground. Activities will include: recruitment of the MMCT Biodiversity Program
Officer; carrying out a detailed baseline biodiversity and ecosystem survey and development of a
practical long-term monitoring plan, including indicators and methods of data collection and
analysis; implementation of urgent conservation actions identified in the Reserve Management
Plan (e.g., maintenance of boundaries and firebreaks, clearing of exotic plants at priority sites,
improved patrols, etc.); in collaboration with the FRIM and other local partners, developing a
research strategy focused on generating the information and tools needed to improve biodiversity
conservation and management in the Reserve.
* Environmental Education and Communications: The Environmental Education and
Communications Program Officer will develop and implement an environmental education and
communication program in collaboration with other stakeholders.
C Co-management and Sustainable Livelihoods: Studies undertaken during project preparation
indicated both the need for greater community participation in the management and benefits of
the Reserve, and the difficulty of achieving this given the weak local institutional capacity and
structures to support collective decision making and action. Implementation of the Govemment's
co-management policy is also constrained by limited capacity within the Forestry Department, at
national, district and local levels. In view of this, the priority during Phase I will be to recruit the
MMCT Co-management and Livelihoods Program Officer, who will then identify specific needs
and opportunities and develop a strategy for supporting communities and the FD in these areas, to
complement work being carried out under other Govemment and donor-support programs. The
strategy will involve MMCT supporting local implementation partners, who will work with local
area institutions such as the Village Natural Resources Committees and/or resource-oriented user
groups. A few target groups and areas/resources will be selected for intensive support, including
the initiation of pilot co-management activities by Year 3. These pilot areas should be linked as
directly as possible with improving the management of biodiversity resources which are currently
under substantial threat. In order to demonstrate immediate, concrete benefits of MMCT to local
stakeholders, the Co-Management and Livelihoods Program Officer will work with the
Biodiversity Program Officer and the FD to ensure that implementation of direct conservation
activities generates as much local employment as possible.
* Establishment of the Endowment Fund and fund-raising: During Phase 1, the MMCT will put
in place the necessary legal and institutional instruments for establishing an Endowment Fund.
The TMB (with assistance from the World Bank) will actively seek donors and contributors to
complement the GEF contribution to the MMCT. At the end of year 2 of Phase I, a
comprehensive review of the institutional capacity of the MMCT will be undertaken to assess the
progress in achieving the agreed "readiness" indicators (described below). When the indicators
have been achieved the endowment funds of US$5.5 million will be released to the agreed
professional Asset Manager who will manage the Trust based on an approved investment
strategy.



- 35 -
Indicators that Phase I has been successfully completed and Phase II should begin include the following:
(i) successful establishment and functioning of the Trust Administration Unit ( i.e. key positions of the
TAU filed, clean audits, acceptable 2 year workplan for the technical areas); (ii) establishment and
functioning of the Trust Management Board (i.e regular Board meetings, application of the procedures
for Board members); (iii) implementation of the Reserve Management Plan ( zonal management strategy
has been adopted, program for cedar permitting and monitoring has been established, fire breaks are
established and maintained); (iv) development anid launching of the fund raising strategy; (v)
demonstration of adequate FD presence and activity on the mountain (number of patrols, co
management agreements established); (vi) adequate allocation of operating funds by Government of
Malawi to FD and by FD to MMFR.
Phase II. The duration of Phase Two of the project is 4 years, representing the period during which the
World Bank will actively supervise project implementation. In fact, however, "Phase II" continues in
perpetuity, as the annual investment income from the Trust Fund (estimated US$300,000-350,000 per
year) is utilized to maintain the MMCT and implement its core activities, as follows:
(i)    Trust administration and support functions. Income from the Trust will support
general administration, financial asset management, outreach and external relations (local,
national and international), fundraising, and institutional overheads. Emphasis will be on
achieving the minimum ratio of administrative costs to program costs that is compatible with
good governance and achieving the Trust's objectives;
(ii)    Continuation and Expansion of Core Program Activities. Income from the Trust will
support the continuation of the three core operational programs (Biodiversity Conservation,
Monitoring and Research; Co-Management and Sustainable Livelihoods; Environmental
Education and Communication). These programs will be continued, modified, reduced or
expanded, based on the information and experience gained in Phase I. It is expected that:
the nature of direct biodiversity conservation activities should evolve from urgent
protection towards maintenance and restoration, and from species and site-specific
intervention to broader ecological management. Research and monitoring activities will
also emphasize support for and evaluation of management practices and strategies;
the pilot co-management and livelihoods program will be expanded to broader
geographic/community coverage and greater diversity of activities; and
the environmental education and communications program will move from a focus on
identifying and delivering key messages to target audiences through MMCT activities,
towards institutionalizing the messages within existing educational and media structures
for ongoing impact.
For all programs, as for the MMCT overall, an adaptive management approach will be used to
ensure that information from internal monitoring and evaluation and from independent reviews is
fed back to decision-making processes. Key indicators of success vs. need for change will be
improvements in biodiversity and ecosystem status and trends and reduction in threats, and
stakeholder satisfaction as expressed through the annual stakeholder forum and formal and
informal opinion surveys. Depending on needs identified and funds available, additional capital
investments may be considered (e.g., an EE Center or other infrastructure).
The GEF Grant Agreement will specify that the income from the GEF investment will continue to support
the incremental cost of activities that directly enhance biodiversity protection, including both direct
conservation activities and assistance for development of environmentally compatible alternative



- 36 -
livelihoods for rural populations who would otherwise bear the opportunity costs of enhanced biodiversity
protection. The GEF grant therefore will not substitute for, but will remain complementary to, continuing
support from GOM, DFID and others to meet the ongoing costs of meeting sustainable development
objectives such as improving management of the reserve and its surroundings as a forestry resource and
watershed, general institutional strengthening for forest management, and improving land use and
management practices within the project area.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$0.58 million
(a) Trust Administration
The Trust Administration Unit (TAU) will be established in Mulanje and will consist of an Executive
Director, three Program Officers, an Accountant, a Secretary, as well as support staff. These individuals
will be the only full-time employees of MMCT. The TAU will be responsible for (i) developing the
program content for each of the three components Biodiversity conservation, Research and Monitoring;
Environmental Education; and Forest co-management and Livelihoods; (ii) working in collaboration with
the FD and suitable NGOs to carry through the three programs in (i) above; (iii) submitting annual work
plans and budgets to the TMB for approval; (iv) disbursing approved funds and ensuring that proper
disbursement, procurement and supervision procedures are followed; (v) maintaining financial records
and accounting/reporting; and (vi) ensuring ongoing monitoring and evaluation of all work receiving
MMCT funding. The basic operational rules and mechanisms of the MMCT are established in the Trust
Administration Manual which has been finalized and adopted by the MMCT. The TAU will also be
responsible for a fund raising strategy during Phase I which will attract donations from sources such as
bilateral donors, the private sector and intemational NGOs which will contribute to the overall
endowment fund of the MMCT. The capacity building element of this component will relate to the
coordinating functions of MMCT, including training for the TMB in relation to its responsibilities,
functions and procedures, training for the TAU administrative staff in aspects such as Trust accounts
procedures, reporting requirements, supervision of contracts, etc. Note that the Program Officers will be
recruited for their technical competence and therefore training requirements for them should be minimal,
however, some specialized short courses maybe necessary. Attendance at technical meetings and
conferences will fall under this budget line.
Project Component 2 - US$0.94 million
(b) Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring
Under this component the project will support activities to identify, protect, manage, anid monitor the
status of biodiversity and ecosystem health in the Reserve, and to reduce the impacts of human pressures
on the ecosystem and its biological resources. This will take place in the context of Govemment's efforts
to improve the overall management of the Reserve to maintain and increase its contribution to local and
national economic development. The GEF support will specifically ensure that biodiversity conservation
is recognized and adopted by the key stakeholders as an explicit objective of Reserve management, along
with other important objectives such as maintaining water supplies and providing sustainable supplies of
valuable timber and non-timber products. Related capacity building, particularly for the Forest
Department staff responsible for the MMFR will be an important element during Phase I.
To be effective, biodiversity conservation activities must be sustained over long periods of time and
respond to changing physical, social, economic, institutional and political conditions. Conventional
conservation projects often support short-term interventions without providing resources to maintain the
effort. Similarly, they often support detailed baseline surveys and research without addressing the need



- 37 -
for on-going monitoring or implementation of actions based on the results. A long-term funding
mechanism such as the MMCT provides a real opportunity for establishing a program of adaptive
biodiversity conservation and management, by putting in place the permanent financial and technical
capacity needed to identify conservation needs and opportunities, and to develop and support well-
informed, flexible strategies and programs of action.
Activities supported under this sub-component are divided into four categories:
(i)  biodiversity baseline survey and monitoring: carrying out a broad-based baseline biodiversity
survey to establish baseline conditions; developing and beginning implementation of a practical,
long-term monitoring program for tracking changes in biodiversity and ecosystem health;
(ii)  capacity building for biodiversity protection, management and monitoring: support to FD
(and other implementation partners, as appropriate), for training, workshops, and specialized
technical assistance to enhance their capacity to generate and use monitoring and research data and
to incorporate biodiversity conservation objectives into Reserve management. In addition, the
project will provide field, office and communication equipment to improve FD's management and
reporting capability;
(iii) direct conservation activities: support for equipment, tools, local labor and other operational
costs to carry out priority actions identified in the Reserve Management Plan, such as maintaining
firebreaks for particularly sensitive areas; boundary maintenance; development and implementation
of conservation plans for Mulanje Cedar and for mid-altitude indigenous forests, eradication or
control of alien species (particularly invasive plants and Cypress aphid); development and
implementation of an ecological resource conservation plan for medicinal plants; and
(iv) research: support for local researchers to carry out research to provide the information and tools
needed to improve biodiversity conservation and management over the longer term and to ensure
the Reserve Management Plan remains up to date.
A full-time Biodiversity Conservation and Research Prograin Officer will be recruited for the TAU to
develop and supervise the implementation of this component. A number of high priority conservation
activities have already been identified in the Reserve Management Plan, which could be started
immediately, along with the baseline survey. Direct conservation activities will be implemented mainly
by the Forest Department, in collaboration with local communities (including direct employment of
community members for on-the-ground actions as appropriate). Biodiversity survey and monitoring and
conservation/management-oriented research will be carried out by the Forest Department (Forest
Research Institute of Malawi) and other local organizations, with national or intemational technical
assistance as required.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.14 million
(c) Environmental education
A primary objective of the MMCT is to raise awareness of the value and importance of the Mulanje
Mountain Forest Reserve within the FD and the surrounding communities. A full time environmental
education program officer will be recruited in the TAU to develop a program for environmental education
which targets the local communities and forest department officers in the area.
The strategy, scope and specific activities of the environmental education program will be developed by
the environmental education program officer in the first year of the project. Local NGO partners, (such as
the Malawi Wildlife Society), will be identified, as appropriate, to assist in the implementation of the
outreach program. The program may include such things as:



- 38 -
an assessment of the local primary and secondary schools' involvement in promoting
environmental awareness, and potential for promoting local biodiversity conservation;
participatory planning and design of program activities by relevant stakeholders (school officials,
FD, communities, NGOs, etc.);
development of environmental education materials; and
collection of resource materials.
The broad program, mechanism for delivery, and specific activities under this component will be defined
in the first year. An agreed amount will be allocated for this component and disbursed against agreed
annual workplans.
Project Component 4 - US$0.86 million
(d) Forest Co-management and Sustainable Livelihoods
The purpose of this component is to increase the share of the benefits from the Reserve going to local
communities and to ensure that this is on a sustainable basis. It is fully consistent with the Government's
policy for co-management of forest reserves and forests on customary land. However, implementation of
this policy has lagged due to a lack of capacity within the Forest Department and communities, and
insufficient resources to develop and implement co-management activities. The key stakeholders and
actors in co-management and natural resource management are community-based organizations such as
Village Natural Resource Management Committees and resource user groups, local and District
government, and District level FD staff. With progressive implementation of the Government's
decentralization policy, the role and importance of District government, including District Councils and
associated technical and executive committees) will grow. GEF funds will support training, workshops
and technical assistance to help mobilize these stakeholders and enhance their knowledge and skills to
become effective co-management partners. This support will mainly be focused around several co-
management pilot projects which will be selected to emphasize the linkage between local economic
benefits and maintaining indigenous biodiversity and natural ecosystems (e.g., restoration and
management of selected stands of Mulanje cedar, reafforestation of degraded areas with valuable
indigenous species including Prunus africanus, and sustainable use of medicinal plants, and other non-
timber forest products). It is expected that these enhanced opportunities and benefits will increase the
value that local communities and local government place on the biodiversity and ecosystems of the
Mulanje massif and therefore decrease pressures of over-exploitation and agricultural encroachment.
While local stakeholders have expressed considerable interest in MMCT supporting the development of
"Income Generating Activities" (IGAs), studies undertaken during project preparation indicated only a
very limited potential for small-scale IGAs based on sustainable use of forest resources (e.g., Prunus
africanus, mushrooms, medicinal plants, ecotourism, handicrafts, etc.). Furthermore, community-based
IGAs are complex and difficult to implement successfully, generally hard to link with conservation
objectives, and have a substantial record of failure in Malawi and elsewhere. Therefore, the MMCT will
be very cautious in its approach, and will only consider providing support for IGAs if a clear conservation
linkage is demonstrated and if it is proposed and executed by an NGO partner with demonstrated capacity
and experience in this area.
MMCT will recruit a full-time Co-management and Livelihoods Program Officer to develop and
supervise implementation of a program under this component. MMCT will collaborate with one or more
suitable NGO implementation partners, providing grants (estimated $30,000-$50,000 per year), to enable
them to carry out activities identified in agreed work plans. DFID is expecting to continue engagement in
this area.



- 39 -
Project Component 5 - US$5.5 million
(e) Conservation Trust Fund
The purpose of the Conservation Trust Fund (CTF) is to provide sustainable in-country funding for
biodiversity conservation of the Mulanje Massif and surrounding area, in the context of ecologically
sustainable development. The MMCT Fund will be established as the financing mechanism for the
above mentioned project components. Phase I (start-up), which is expected to last three years, will
build the capacity within the MMCT and its partners to carry out their respective roles in the
management of the Trust and the coordination and implementation of the activities described above. A
modest unallocated fund for technical programs will allow MMCT to address early needs and gain
experience in program planning and implementation. At then end of year 2, an assessment of the
achievement of the agreed indicators of institutional capacity and readiness (see page 13) will serve to
trigger the release of the US$5.5 million endowment capital into the Trust. During year 3, the
endowment will earn interest and it is these funds which will finance Phase II (implementation phase).
Assistance from the GEF is requested to provide the initial endowment capital of US$5.5 million for
Phase II of the project, as well as US$1.25 for the three-year start-up phase.



- 40 -
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component          US $million   US $million   US $million
Trust Administration                            0.41         0.11         0.52
Biodiversity Conservation, Research & Monitoring  0.49       0.35         0.84
Environmental Education and Communication       0.08         0.05         0.12
Forest Co-Management and Livelihoods            0.50         0.26         0.76
Conservation Trust Fund                         4.95                      4.95
Total Baseline Cost                             6.43         0.76         7.19
Physical Contingencies                         0.44         0.06          0.50
Price Contingencies                            0.29         0.04         0.33
Total Project Costs                7.16         0.86         8.02
Local   J  Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category          US $million   US $million   US $million-
Civil Works                                       0.06             -         0.06
Equipment, Supplies & Vehicles                                  0.16         0.16
Services                                                        0.70         0.70
Training                                          0.58             -         0.58
Operating Costs                                   1.02                       1.02
Endowment Fund                                    5.50             -         5.50
Total Project Costs                 7.16          0.86          8.02



- 41 -
Annex 4
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
Incremental Costs and Global Environment Benefits
Overview
The principle objective of the GEF Alternative is to help Malawi conserve the unique biological
biodiversity of Mulanje Mountain and its ecosystem, which are of global importance as well as vital to the
sustained livelihoods of people living in the surrounding areas. This objective will be achieved through a
combination of capacity building, conservation activities, strengthened protection, environmental
education, and the development of co-management projects to improve the sustainable flow of natural
resources to participating local communities. The GEF Alternative will establish the Mulanje Mountain
Conservation Trust (MMCT) to help in the preservation of the Mulanje ecosystem. The trust fund is
expected to be endowed after a three-year pilot phase, which will lay the foundation for MMCT and key
stakeholders to implement a longer-term operational conservation program. The net income generated
from the trust fund will finance the following activities: (1) trust fund administration; (2) biodiversity
conservation, research and monitoring; (3) environmental education and communications; and (4) forest
co-management and livelihoods.
Context and Broad Development Goals
Malawi is a developing country with Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita (exchange rate based) of
only US$151 in 1995, the fifth lowest in Africa (WRI 1999). Annual average GDP growth from 1985 to
2
1995 was 2.1 percent. The country has a population density of 120 per km of arable land, one of the
highest in Africa. Malawi's annual population growth rate of 2.8 percent has created pressure on
biodiversity in association with the need to increase economic growth. Approximately 85 percent of the
population live in rural areas, subsisting largely on agriculture and exploitation of biological resources
such as forests for a variety of timber and non-timber products. At the national level, agriculture
contributes 42 percent to total GDP. Commercial tea and coffee are significant export crops and source of
employment in rural areas. A high proportion of commercial agricultural production is based on
irrigation from surface water. Agriculture accounts for 86 percent of total freshwater withdrawals.
A primary development goal of the Government of Malawi (GoM) is to alleviate poverty through the
sustainable management of natural resources, including the conservation of biological diversity. Within
this policy framework, the protection of watersheds is critical to maintain surface water flows in support
of agricultural development. Recognizing the environmental deterioration occurring in the country, and
the resulting social and economic impacts, the GoM prepared a National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP), which was formally launched in December 1994. The NEAP identified priority environmental
issues and formulated a broad inter-sectoral environmental strategy to integrate environmental concerns
with development efforts.
Biophysical Characteristics of Mount Mulanje
Mount Mulanje, in south-eastern Malawi, is bordered on two sides by Mozambique and extends over 640
2
km . The mountain (or massif) consists of Afro-montane vegetation supporting a large number of
endemic flora and fauna species, many of which are endangered, or threatened by extinction. The
mountain is largely contained within a gazetted forest reserve, encompassing a gradient of ecosystems.
Beginning at the base of the massif, the natural ecosystems include; miombo woodland and lowland semi-
evergreen forest (700 to 900 meters); medium altitude evergreen forest (900 to 1600 meters); montane



- 42 -
cedar forest, sub-montane evergreen forest, grasslands and secondary scrub (1600 to 2400 meters); and
finally an alpine ecology above 2400 meters (EDG 2000).
The reserve is one of Africa's key sites for threatened bird species. Its forests are part of the Tanganyika-
Nyasa Mountain Group Endemic Bird Area (EBA) which includes the mountains between South-Eastern
Kenya and northem Mozambique, and support four of the 35 restricted-range bird species of the EBA.
The massif s habitat has 250 bird species. Above 1,800 meters, 94 species of birds have been recorded,
of which seven are endemic or near endemic to Mulanje. The reserve is home to 27 species of smaller
mammals, a few of them rare and isolated in their distribution. Larger mammals have been heavily
hunted although several species are commonly sighted, including several ungulates, monkeys, hyenas and
leopard. The number of invertebrates within the reserve is estimated in the range of 25,000 to 30,000 and
only a fraction have been described and named.
There are over 1,100 species of higher plants, of which 57 are strict endemics. The higher plants include
flowering and non-flowering trees, shrubs, and herbs in six different plant communities. Two tree species
are especially valuable; Prunus africana, whose bark has potential pharmaceutical value for treating
prostate cancer; and Widdringtonia whytei (Mulanje cedar), which has outstanding timber quality. Both
species are rare and threatened.
The mountain is the headwaters of nine major rivers. Virtually every major river and stream in the
Phalombe and Mulanje districts originate from the massif. The majority of the local population and all
commercial tea and coffee estates draw water from the Mount Mulanje watershed. The water also serves
small-scale irrigation in surrounding customary lands. One river (Ruo) generates hydroelectric power for
a commercial tea estate. Water flowing from the north of the massif flows into Lake Chirwa and the
bordering wetlands. The shores of this lake are home to a large bird population and the lake itself
supports important fish species for commercial and subsistence use. Four major rivers (Ruo, Lujeri,
Lichenya, Likhubula) flow south through Mozambique.
Malawi's NEAP identified Mulanje Mountain as a high conservation priority. The preparation and
implementation of the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Project will be an important component of the
government's overall environmental program over the next few years.
Socioeconomic Characteristics of Mount Mulanje
The Phalombe and Mulanje districts support over 800,000 people. Approximately half of this population
lives in the immediate area surrounding Mount Mulanje. The massif is completely surrounded by villages
and small-scale cultivation on customary land, and large commercial tea and coffee estates. On
customary land, the average farm size is just 0.4 ha, reflecting the high population density in the region,
and more generally throughout Malawi. Average household size is 5.5 persons. Given the rate of
population growth (2.8 percent per annum), the number of rural inhabitants will continue to cause a
reduction in average farrn size. The Mulanje region is characterized by high poverty and food insecurity
relative to other regions of Malawi. Subsistence agriculture is based on maize, sweet potato, and cassava.
Opportunities to earn additional income are limited, particularly as the distance from tlhe Mulanje forest
reserve increases. The Mulanje region is the largest producer of tea in the country and nearly all
production is exported. The tea estates are the largest source of formal employment in the region. As an
example, one private estate has 3,600 ha under tea production and employs close to 5,000 people. Based
on an average daily minimum wage of MWK 30 and 200 days of work per year, the annual wage bill for
this one tea estate is almost US$650,000.



- 43 -
Scope of Analysis and Assumptions
The analysis of baseline, GEF Alternative, and incremental costs is focused on the Mulanje Mountain
forest reserve and communities largely within 4 km of the reserve boundary. Konstant (2000) found that
communities within this distance were more active in resource exploitation than more distant
communities. The benefits of biodiversity conservation within the forest reserve do extend further afield
however. The best example is the ecological service benefits of water flows from the mountain, both to a
wide geographic area in Malawi and extending into Mozambique. The analysis notes these benefits but
the cost estimates are largely restricted to the forest reserve and bordering area.
The analysis considers the first three years of the project, that is Phase I, which will build local capacity
of MMCT, undertake baseline surveys, develop a monitoring program, and implement priority projects
related to biodiversity conservation. Phase II would simply establish an endowed trust fund to provide
annual operating budgets for MMCT over time. Finally, the endowment of the trust fund is assumed to
occur at the end of Year 3 so it can be included in the analysis.
Baseline Scenario
Trends in local biodiversity use and benefits without the GEF alternative
Biodiversity plays a central role in social and economic development in the Mulanje region. The
commercial agriculture sector and a high proportion of subsistence agriculture are heavily dependent on
nine major rivers and many smaller streams flowing from the massif headwaters. In the Phalombe
district, there are more than 100 irrigation schemes within a 30 to 40 km radius from the mountain.
Without the project, human encroachment into the surrounding miombo forest and onto the plateau itself
will continue with an associated impact on the critical ecological service functions related to water
supply. In the longer-term, declining water quality and quantity would have a serious negative impact on
agriculture, particularly for the commercial tea and coffee plantations. Detailed records of water flows
were not available, however anecdotal evidence from tea estate managers suggest that water flow from
the massif is declining. Compounding the problem is that water is essentially a free resource; no tariffs
are paid and thus no incentive exists to conserve.
Local communities surrounding the mountain are actively engaged in harvesting timber and non-timber
forest products for subsistence consumption and commercial sale. Non-timber products include wild
fruit, mushrooms, wild vegetables, medicinal plants, thatching grass, bamboo, grass brooms, palm leaves
for furniture, honey, wood for carvings, small mammals, insects and fish. Most of the non-timber
products originate in the miombo forest surrounding the base of the massif. Generally, most households
living within two to four km of the massif harvest non-timber products from reserve and the bordering
miombo forest. The contribution of these products to total household income could not be assessed from
consultant reports completed during the preparation phase, however even small financial retums are
important in a region characterized by high poverty. For example, the daily financial retums for firewood
and mushrooms are about 60 percent of the official daily minimum wage. At present, only about 10
percent of the existing miombo forest is considered degraded but this will increase over time without
proper management. Firewood, thatch and small mammals are already felt to be in short supply by local
communities. Without the project, continued encroachment into the forest reserve and unsustainable
harvesting will reduce the long-term supply of non-timber forest products for household income. The
Forest Department assesses permits on the collection of some non-timber products, but collection is
sporadic and rates appear to vary according to the officer involved.
Small-scale commercial lumber and wood for carvings are derived from scattered stanids of Mulanje
cedar, which are located on the plateau of the massif. In 1994, 43 percent of the 1 10,000 m of standing



- 44 -
cedar volume was dead or dying. The volume of cedar presently being harvested is not precisely known,
but estimates are as high as several thousand m per year. Licenses are presently issued to'small-scale
operators to harvest dead cedar, mainly for pit sawing on the plateau, with the lumber carried down by
head-load. Much of the harvesting is unsupervised and can be destructive. Evidence suggests that some
loggers ring-bark healthy trees in more accessible areas to cause mortality, thus allowing a permit to be
issued for harvesting a "dead" tree. Without the project, thle cedar resource could be exhausted over the
next few decades. Rising scarcity values and poor regulation may combine to increase the pace of illegal
harvesting.
Poles and firewood are harvested from approximately 5,000 ha of old, unmanaged pine and eucalyptus
plantations on the plateau and lower slopes within the reserve. Managed plantations also exist outside the
reserve within the tea estates. Much of the commercial harvest of pine and eucalyptus from the reserve is
directed to the tea and coffee plantations for drying leaves. Without the project, the plantations will
continue to be exploited; however their contribution to the unique biodiversity values in the reserve is
minimal.
Tourism is presently a minor economic activity, with perhaps 1,000 visitors per year climbing the
mountain for an average 3.5 nights per trip. Approximately 39 percent of visitors are from outside
Malawi. The mountain attracts visitors from a small market segment, mainly those who enjoy hiking and
rustic conditions. The present income generated is very low, mainly for guides, porters, and forest
department fees. Existing services and infrastructure are in decline. Without the project, tourism won't
increase as much as hoped, thus reducing potential opportunities for higher revenue generation.
Global biodiversity objectives and benefits without the GEF alternative
The global environmental objectiveis to improve the conservation of biological diversity and
ecosystem management of the Mulanje Mountain region. This area is a center of endemism. The World
Wildlife Fund has identified Mulanje Mountain as one of 20 global areas for the conservation of
biodiversity. Due to the richness of its plant and animal life, it has also been included among UNESCO's
13 World Heritage Sites. The mountain also plays a critical ecological service function for international
waters flowing into Moza.mbique. Finally, foreign tourists to Mulanje are expressing their preferences for
global tourism values. In the absence of project interventions, continued encroachment and degradation
of these global biodiversity values is likely to accelerate due to rapidly increasing population pressure,
fire damage and the invasion of alien species.
Current conservation activities and expenditures-Government ofMalawi
In the absence of GEF support, there are very few activities being undertaken in the Mulanje area to
conserve its biodiversity. The Forestry Department is responsible for the management of the Mulanje
Forest Reserve, but its effectiveness to control timber cutting and encroachment continues to be limited
by budget constraints. As well, the focus of Forest Department operations is on exotic plantation
management and issuing cutting permits for cedar, rather than broader biodiversity conservation. The
number of Forest Department workers operating in the Mulanje region is approximately 750, however
financial resource constraints mean few staff actually work in the field much of the time. This is
corroborated by field surveys of non-timber products in the reserve (Konstant 2000), and a review of
Forestry Department expenditures by the consultant, which showed salaries and allowances accounted for
79 percent of the total budget. Limited operating budgets restrict field work and program investments.



- 45 -
The baseline scenario includes Forest Department contributions towards salaries and allowances for forest
guards; and operating costs related to cedar management and forest protection. The Forest Research
Institute of Malawi, which is under the Forest Department, is responsible for research but little, if any
biodiversity research is being undertaken at present. Information on Forest Department expenditures was
available from the review of actual financial records, and detailed staff costs in the Mount Mulanje
Management Plan. Based on these sources, estimated annual expenditures by the Forestry Department in
the area are approximately MWK 25 million. Discussions with Department officials and MMCT suggest
that one-third of this expenditure (US$176,000) is directly related to biodiversity conservation as opposed
to plantation management. Therefore, over Phase I, the total estimated baseline expenditure by the Forest
Department is approximately US$528,000. The Forest Department is presently developing a Statutory
Forest Fund, designed to allow the Department to retain revenues from various fees and charges. The
process would have the revenues sent to the parent Ministry in Lilongwe, with 20 percent directed to
Ministry of Finance and some portion of the balance returned to Mulanje. Current revenues collected
from local forestry activities are minimal but could increase if more effective rent capture is implemented,
particularly for cedar. In terms of the GEF project structure, the Forest Department baseline costs are
linked to Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring.
Current conservation activities and expenditures-donors
Information on donor programs and expenditures resulted from direct discussions with senior officials
involved in each organizations.
At present, two development agencies (GTZ and Oxfam) are funding some activities in the Mulanje
Mountain region, which are targeted towards natural resource management through community co-
management. GTZ is undertaking a tree-planting project along the riverbanks to improve watershed
management and soil conservation, at an estimated cost of US$130,000 per year. These expenditures
represent approximately 10 percent of a much larger rural food security program in the Mulanje region,
located in villages quite a long distance from the forest reserve. The project is scheduled to end in 2003.
The tree planting costs are directly related to biodiversity conservation in the forest reserve by extending
ecological service benefits of water management. The larger program of food security is less relevant
because of the distance of the villages from the forest reserve. As Konstant (2000) showed, villages that
exploit the forest reserve are generally located within a few kilometers. Oxfam has a soil and water
conservation initiative within a larger livelihood security program. The biodiversity conservation
elements of the Oxfam program are two-fold in this case. First, the soil and water program will assist in
water conservation as with the GTZ program. Secondly however, the program is presently expanding to
villages located immediately along the southern boundary of the reserve who presently harvest forest
products. This program will improve the sustainability of timber and non-timber forest products,
particularly in the miombo forest on the reserve boundary. Estimated annual expenditures related to
biodiversity conservation are US$160,000. These will continue over the first phase of GEF support and
beyond. In terms of the GEF project structure, all relevant costs from GTZ and Oxfam are linked to the
Forest Co-Management and Livelihoods element in the baseline scenario.
A third donor, DFID, has committed to supporting the co-management and livelihoods component for
ca US$500,000.
Total baseline costs and benejits
Costs. The total cost of baseline investments of the Government of Malawi and the donor community, as
described above, is estimated to be US$1.27 million over the three years of Phase 1.



- 46 -
Benefits. Implementation of the baseline case will result in limited protection from encroachment and
unsustainable resource use, and most likely will not halt the decline in biodiversity within the forest
reserve. Baseline activities are unlikely to ensure protection of globally significant biological resources,
ecological services linked to watershed protection, and global tourism values.
GEF Alternative
Program structure
The project is designed to operate in two Phases; the first Phase (3 years) will build local capacity
(particularly within MMCT), gather baseline biophysical information and develop a monitoring plan, and
implement modest programs to address priority conservation issues. In the last year of Phase I, a major
review will occur, and if evaluation criteria are met, the trust fund will be endowed to a level that will
provide a sustainable income to MMCT in the order of US$300,000 to US$350,000. For the purpose of
this analysis, a trust endowment of US$5.5 million is assumed to occur at the end of Year 3. Phase II
would use the annual return on trust fund investmnents to finance long-term biodiversity conservation
programs in the forest reserve.
GEF alternative - costs and benefits
Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$8.02 million, detailed as follows; (i) trust
fund administration - US$0.58 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 0.58 million); (ii) biodiversity
conservation, research and monitoring - US$0.94 million (GEFfinancing- US$ 0.40 million);
(iii) environmental education and communication - US$0.14 million (GEFfinancing- US$ 0.14 million);
(iv) forest co-management and livelihoods - US$0.86 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 0.13 million);
(v) Endowment Conservation Trust Fund - US$5.5 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 5.5 million).
Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Alternative would enable biodiversity conservation activities and
programs to occur that would not have been undertaken through current baseline activities. The
establishment of a financial mechanism, the Endowment Conservation Trust fund, will ensure long-term
support to biodiversity conservation activities in the Mulanje Mountain area. Under the GEF Altemative,
Malawi will strengthen the baseline scenario by; contributing to the conservation of the Afro-montane
forest ecosystems; conserving rare and endangered species; maintaining watershed integrity and
international water flows; improving tourism values; and building capacity of local communities to
manage the massif's natural resources.
Incremental Costs
The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$1.27 million) and the cost of the GEF
Alternative (US$8.02 million) is estimated at US$6.75 million. This represents the incremental cost for;
achieving long-term global environmental benefits through the setting up of a conservation trust fund;
supporting small-scale activities and monitoring linked to biodiversity conservation; financing an
environmental education program; developing mechanisms for more sustainable resource use among local
communities; and strengthening local and national capacity for conserving globally significant
biodiversity.
Co-Financing and Revenue Generation
The project has already benefited from a US$300,000 PDF grant from GEF that was used to finance
preparation costs. In addition, DFID contributed an additional US$ 800,000 to help prepare a long-term
strategy for the utilization and conservation of the Mulanje Mountain forest reserve and other project



- 47 -
preparation and conservation activities. The long-term development strategy is based on a number of
technical, economic, social and institutional studies. DFID has agreed to co-financing certain elements of
the incremental cost, particularly those activities linked to forest co-management and livelihoods. The
baseline contribution of current GTZ and Oxfam programs, primarily involved with food security, have
already been discussed. Although the GTZ program will end in 2003, German technical advisors felt
there was a high probability of further support.
Aside from donor baseline contributions and incremental cost co-financing, there are options for the GoM
to increase revenues from the forest reserve. One obvious priority is water, which is currently used at
zero rent by commercial agricultural producers and households in the wider Mulanje and Phalombe
regions. The sustainable supply of high quality water is largely due to maintenance of biodiversity,
particularly vegetation, on the massif plateau and its slopes. It seems reasonable that downstream users of
water such as commercial tea plantations should contribute to the cost of maintaining the biodiversity
within the forest reserve. Revenues can be generated through a simple environment tax on land under
production, or a more complex approach based on estimated water consumption per ha.
There appears to be great scope for increasing revenues from the utilization of various timber and non-
timber forest products from the reserve. While the Forest Department has statutory regulations governing
permits and fees for many forest products, collection is sporadic and ineffective. Also, the rates
themselves do not appear to have any economic basis. The various forest charges need to be
comprehensively reviewed and revised to better reflect resource rents and Forest Department costs of
monitoring and enforcement. Highly valuable products such as cedar could have harvesting rights
auctioned, perhaps with preference given to local bidders to increase regional income.
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component        Category       US$            Domestic Benefit                  Global Benefit
Sector                      Million
(actual)
Trust Fund       Baseline       0.00       No capacity built to administer    No capacity built to administer
Administration                             conservation programs          conservation programs
With GEF      0.58       Capacity to administer Trust Fund  Capacity to administer Trust Fund
Alternative              which will finance long-term   which will finance long-term activities
activities to conserve locally  to conserve globally important
important biodiversity in Mulanje  biodiversity in Mulanje
Incremental    0.58
Biodiversity     Baseline       0.54       Continued pressure on forest   Loss of globally unique biodiversity,
Conservation,                              reserve and decline in         valuable intemational waters and
Research and                               biodiversity, including watershed  tourism
Monitoring                                 stability
With GEF      0.94       More effective monitoring and    Improved conservation of globally
Alternative              protection of local use of forest    unique biodiversity, valuable
reserve and biological resources   intemational waters, and tourism
Incremental    0.40



- 48 -
Component        Category       US$            Domestic Benefit                   Global Benefit
Sector                      Million
(actual)
Environmental   Baseline        0.00       Poor local and national awareness  Lack of awareness of global
Education and                              of biodiversity in Mulanje,    biodiversity values and partner
Communication                              contributing to unsustainable  contributions by international
exploitation                  organizations and tourists to Mulanje
With GEF      0.14       Increased national awareness of   Increased awareness of global
Altemative                biodiversity conservation and  biodiversity values and partner
participatory schemes for     contributions by intemational
sustainable natural resource  organizations and tourists to Mulanje
management in region
Incremental    0.14
Forest Co-       Baseline       0.74       GTZ and Oxfam projects will
Management                                 continue to improve local food
and Livelihoods                            security and reduce pressure on
reserve
With GEF      0.86        Greater involvement of
Alternative               conununities bordering reserve in
sustainable resource use programs
Incremental    0.12
Conservation     Baseline       0.00       Inadequate financial resources for
Trust Fund I                               biodiversity conservation in
Mulanje
With GEF      5.5         Sustainable programs for local    Conservation trust fund to finance
Altemative               biodiversity conservation based    activities to conserve globally
on Trust Fund income          important biodiversity
Incremental    5.5
Totals           Baseline       1.27
With GEF      8.02
Alternative
Incremental   6.75
a Although the Trust Fund is listed as a separate component, it serves to finance (through interest income) the other components,
in the second phase of the project.



- 49 -
Annex 5: Financial Summary
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
Years Ending
December 31
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year t  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5 iYear 6  Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        1.20    2.43     2.36    0.23    0.27     0.28    0.22
Recurrent Costs         0.16     0.31    0.29    0.07    0.07      0.07    0.07
Total Project Costs       1.36    2.74     2.65     0.30    0.33     0.35    0.28
Financing
GEF                    88%      89%     89%      78%     80%    81%      77%
Other Sources          12%      11%     11%      22%     20%    19%      23%
Total Project Financing  100%    100%    100%    100%    100%   100%    100%



- 50 -
Annex 5a: Financial Management Arrangements
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
Introduction
The Mount Mulanje GEF project will be implemented by the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust, in
collaboration with the Forestry Department and others including local NGOs and local community-based
organizations. Through this project/grant facility the MMCT will promote biodiversity conservation and
sustainable management of the resources of the Mt. Mulanje Forest Reserve, by supporting direct
conservation activities, education/extension, and co-management of forest resources. It will also support
capacity building for the MMCT and its implementation partners.
The purpose of the Trust fund is to provide an on going and reliable source of funding for these activities.
The funds are proposed to be provided in two phases: Phase I funds will be provided on a standard
project basis to support start-up of the MMCT and limited pilot activities. Based on successful
implementation of Phase 1, as indicated by the achievement of agreed milestones, Phase 2 funds will be
provided in the form of a capital endowment to the MMCT. This endowment is to be invested, with the
annual income used to support the activities on an ongoing basis. on an annual basis to support ongoing
will be purposes.
Overall Assessment
In general, the financial laws and regulations in Malawi provide an acceptable context for the project.
Accounting and auditing standards could be considered at par with International standards, and Malawi is
a member of International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Enforcement of auditing standards is
achieved through annual peer review from practicing counter part members from South African big five
firms.
As this GEF grant to Govemment will be passed on to a non-governmental organization, budgeting and
accounting practices will follow private sector, rather than public sector practices. Controllership of
funds in the private and non-governmental sector normally rests with an Accountant, who is responsible
for ensuring compliance with stipulated rules and regulations of the entity. He is also responsible for
analyzing accounting data and advising the board and the head of institution to make decisions. Private
and non-governmental sector expenditure is carefully monitored on a month to month basis with
appropriate corrective measures taken immediately to address deviations. The accounting environment
for private sector is enhanced by employment of internal auditors who in most cases report to the board
committee on audit on compliance issues. External audit for all registered private and non-governmental
institutions is required by statute. Most private organizations appoint independent auditors meetings to
perform this function. Apart from conducting the financial audit, the auditors also check on systems
compliance matters which lead to the production of a management letter. A professional association
called Society of Accountants (SOCAM) whose members sit British and Canadian Examinations exists.
It ensures compliance with standards, professional ethics and checks on quality control issues in the
private sector.
In terms of financial management standards and capacity, the project will operate in a medium to low risk
environment. The main risk arises from the fact that the recipient, MMCT, is new and has not yet
established a track record in financial management. However, the Project Preparation Unit, which will be
converted into the Trust Administration Unit, has administered and accounted for project preparation
funds provided by GEF and DFID over the past five years. The potential problem of lack of capacity



- 51 -
within collaborating organizations will be addressed through use of strict eligibility criteria including
financial management capacity to the level needed given the types of activities involved. A second
potential issue, lack of segregation of responsibilities within the Trust (owing to its small size), will be
mitigated through computerization of the accounting function and the employment of operational officers
with some capacity and responsibility for funds management. Auditors and the Executive Director should
also implement checks to ensure that recommendations to address identified weaknesses are
implemented. It is noted that, although review of the current procedures (i.e. during the project
preparation phase) revealed some weaknesses, these can be easily corrected. An unqualified audit report
has been issued, covering the past 18 months of the Project Preparation Unit's operations..
Institutional Responsibilities for Financial Management
The project will be implemented by the Trust Administration Unit of the MMCT. The TAU will be
headed by the Executive Director and accountable to the Board of Trustees. The Director, with the
assistance of the Accountant, will be responsible for ensuring that the Trust exercises financial discipline,
observes intemal control and is fully accountable to the Board and all stakeholders.
The Trust Administration Unit will be responsible for maintaining an appropriate integrated accounting
system to ensure that it provides a single, common database for financial information. Thus it will ensure
that there is a linkage between the cost categories agreed at appraisal for accounting system purposes and
the inputs needed to carry out the project. The TAU will ensure that important project costs are tracked at
an appropriate level of disaggregation, and (in Phase 2) that the endowment funds are properly
identifiable within the accounting system.
The Accountant will be responsible for compiling regular project expenditure reports. The format of
these reports has been agreed and will be in fomm.described in the section for agreed financial reporting
formats.
Of immediate importance will be the need to computerize all accounting records, accounts, statements,
budgets and all related financial information. The project will finance purchase of suitable software to
provide the required information, monitor expenditures and disbursements against budgets, and provide
up to date information on the status of finances and accounts.
The TAU will ensure that NGOs selected to implement project components have a track record of up to
date audited accounts for the last three years, and the capacity to manage funds, including the capacity
submit expenditure retums on a quarterly basis.
The Accountant will also be responsible for developing an improved chart of accounts which ensures
linkage between cost items and outputs and monitoring indicators. His/her responsibilities will include
coordinating and facilitating the audit of the project and the MMCT at the end of every fiscal year and
ensuring that it is submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Financial Management Capacity of MMCT
Currently the Project Preparation Unit, which will become the TAU upon effectiveness of the project, has
one capable Accountant with good experience working on donor-funded projects. However, as he does
all the primary transactions, posting, production of accounts, reconciliations as well as raising cheques,
this may be too much for one person and seriously compromises segregation of duties. Therefore, the
TAU will engage a Secretary with some accounting skills and experience to perform some of this work



- 52 -
Adequacy and Effectiveness of Internal Control Systems and Procedures
The following procedural issues from the project preparation stage were identified and will be addressed
as the TAU is established:
1) the need for the Executive Director to sign off on reconciliations of bank checks to authenticate them
2) the need for a better system for fuel payments (i.e. not to be paid from a petty cash float)
3) the need for surprise checks on the petty cash float to ensure that the amount of cash and authorized
expenditure documentation add up to the float amount
4) the need for a more transparent system for obtaining and evaluating quotations for purchases
5) thee need for goods received notes to be raised to signify acceptance and receipt of purchased items
(e.g. when purchased on a cash basis)
6) the need to maintain a petty cash book and a nominal ledger
7) the need to revise the current chart of accounts to include the following: local Bank accountant, petty
cash, fixed assets and advances made to staff.
It was also noted that, during the project preparation phase, funds from DFID were co-mingled with
World Bank funds on advice from auditors. This is inappropriate per Bank guidelines and should not be
continued. Other accounts are not reconciled.
While the list of weaknesses looks long and demonstrates a weak intemal control environment, these may
be easily addressed when the three operational officers are employed together with a Secretary with skills
in accounting, and their roles defined. Computerization of the accounting function will go with re-
configuring of the chart of accounts to reflect the nature of the activities that will take place will address
some of the weaknesses currently being faced. The Trust Administration Manual will incorporate the
required measures. The Next step section outlines in detail actions to be taken prior to effectiveness.
Agreed Financial Reporting Formats
The agreed formats for reporting purposes are as follows:
(a) a report on project sources and uses of funds, which will summarize total funds received during the
period from all sources and uses of such funds under the disbursement categories in the grant
agreement. This report should be in a position to reflect GEF and any other financing (e.g., DFID);
(b) a report on uses of funds by project activity, which will summarize project expeniditures by
components consistent with the Project Document, showing actual, planned and cumulative
expenditures (to help monitor implementation progress);
(c) balance sheet (optional);
(d) a report on project cash withdrawals, which will show current quarters expenditure from GEF grant
and any other money; and
(e) a Special Account statement.
Where applicable a forecast of next quarters cash requirements may be necessary.
Audit Arrangements
An independent and qualified auditor will carry out an annual audit of the project anid MMCT. The
MMCT will ensure that the auditor has adequate staff with experience in similar audits. At the discretion
of the Board of Trustees, the current auditor may be retained or another auditor could be recruited through
advertisement. If recruitment is necessary, MMCT has agreed that a shortlist of firms will be prepared in
consultation with the Bank. Subject to annual performance satisfactory to the Board and the Bank, a



- 53 -
contract for the first two years will be concluded between the Board and the selected auditor after the
negotiations of the facility have been concluded. Terms of Reference for this audit, covering the project
audit, Trust account and (ultimately) endowment are also subject to World Bank approval, and proposed
TORs have been provided to the Accountant. The terms of reference require the auditors to determine
whether sources and applications of funds are fairly presented for specific period, as well as cumulatively
for the project and that disbursements are made in accordance with grant agreements and the appraisal
document. The auditors will also be required to ascertain that individual expenditures which comprise
Statement of Expense totals are fully supported by documentation retained in the Trusts files, properly
authorized, eligible for financing under the Grant financing and appropriately accounted for. For the
Special Account, the auditors will be required to verify that its statements are fairly presented and that
disbursements from the special account are proper and in accordance with the Grant agreement. For the
stream of funds arising from the off shore Trust funds (Phase 2), the auditor should ensure that accounting
for such funds has followed rightful accounting policies and should state whether all of it has been
accounted for during a period.
Next Steps
Actions to be completed prior to Effectiveness:
1. Draft software specifications for computerization of the accounting function of MMCT
2. Re configure the chart of accounts to reflect the nature of the project and activities to be undertaken.
3. Verify revised TORs for auditors (if current auditor retained, send out revised TORs and obtain
confirmation of their understanding of them; if to be re-advertised, TORs sent along with request for
expression of interest to a shortlist of firms approved by the Bank).
4. Open a separate local account for grant funds to be received from GEF and ensure that the funds are
not co-mingled with DFID or other funds.
5. Implement the actions required to address the weaknesses identified in internal control measures
(above).
6. Receipt of written assurance that the integrity of the MMFR will be maintained and there will be no
further reduction in its size.
7. Trust Administration Manual and MMCT Constitution approved and adopted.
8. The MMCT Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Recipient and MMCT



- 54 -
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain. Biodiversity Conservation Project
Procurement for Project Preparation
Studies were undertaken during preparation work for the project. These activities were financed under a
GEF Project Preparation Grant and Japanese PHRD facility and contracts were awarded based on the
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. The summary of proposed procurement arrangements for the
proposed project are presented in Table A. Preparation of procurement documentation and supervision of
contracts will be carried out by the Trust Administration Unit. Implementation and reporting
arrangements are further discussed in para. 4.2 of the Institutional Arrangements section of the PAD.
Implementation Arrangements
Under the project, the Trust Administration Unit (TAU) of the Trust will be established. The staff of the
TAU includes, the Executive Director, three Program Officers, an Accountant, a secretary and support
staff (see section C 1. (a) Project Description Summary). The current Project Preparation Coordinator is
expected to become the Executive Director and the accounting staff are expected to become the
accounting staff of the TAU. The TAU will be responsible for the day to day operational activities of the
Trust. The TAU will be responsible for the project financial management, reporting and auditing,
following procedures as reflected in the Trust Administration Manual. As a condition of effectiveness, it
will be ensured that these procedures will be consistent with World Bank requirements. The TAU will
report to the Board which has overall responsibility for ensuring that proper procedures are adhered to.
Capacity Assessment
The capacity for procurement and disbursement has been established during project preparation. The staff
who will be carrying over to establish the TAU has been performing well throughout project preparation
and they are proficient in applying the World Bank procurement and disbursement procedures.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of goods and works for all GEF funded components will be carried out in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consulting services by firm or
individuals financed by the Bank will be awarded in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World BankBorrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1977
and January 1999). The appropriate World Bank standard bidding documents will be used for all
procurement initiatives funded by the proposed credit.
Advertising
Two General Procurement Notices (GPN), one for consulting services and one for goods and works, will
be prepared for the Project and published in the United Nations Development Business (UJNDB).
Procurement Plan
A procurement plan has been prepared by the Borrower. The plan includes relevant information on goods
and consulting services under the Project as well as the timing of each milestone in the procurement
process. The procurement schedule will be updated every quarter and reviewed by the Bank at each



- 55 -
supervision mission. Procurement will take place only during the first three years of the project. The
US$1.25 million will be spent on goods, civil works, services and operating costs as described below.
The endowment part of the Grant, US$5.5 million, will be disbursed in one lump sum at the end of year
two of the project. There will be no procurement for the endowment portion of the Grant. The funds will
be placed with an asset manager and invested based on an investment strategy cleared by the World
Bank. The interest earned from the MMCT Trust will finance the operations of the MMCT after year
three of the project.
Goods
The total cost of goods is estimated at US$ 0.06 million. Procurement of goods will be procured through
National/International Shopping procedures in accordance with the Bank Guidelines, and/or through the
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UNDP (IAPSO).
Civil works
The project will finance the construction of a small building which is estimated at US$ 0.06 million
equivalent. Since this is a relatively small contract, it will be carried out through NCB procedures in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Goods and Works.
Services
The total cost of GEF-funded consultant services and training is estimated at US$ 0.28 million equivalent
for the entire Project. These contracts will be primarily for recruitment of specialist services. These are
consultants for services which meet the requirements of Section V of the Consultant Guidelines and will
be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants (IC) method. Individual
Consultants will be recruited through comparison of job description requirements against the
qualifications of those expressing interest in the assignment or those approached directly.
Bank Reviews
Procurement of GEF funded civil works and goods contracts estimated to cost US$ 25,000 equivalent or
more as well as consulting contracts of US$ 10,000 equivalent or more will be subject to prior review by'
the Bank. Post reviews of contracts awarded below the above threshold levels will be carried out
selectively by the Bank during supervision missions and/or by an independent procurement auditor.
Terms of Reference (TOR) for all consultancy contracts as well as all single source selections,
irrespective of the contract value, will be subject to prior review.



- 56 -
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
. ..... .... - .                                  T~~~rocurement Meho1
:Expenditure Category                        IC            NCB    :           ther      Total Cost
!. EE i :E- EEEE :E. E iE EEE E ... ....E    EE. ...   .                           s.   q  f            t eEi::E i   . 
1. Works                                                 0.00            0.05             0.01           0.06
(0.00)         (0.05)           (0.01)         (0.06)
2. Goods, Equipment & Vehicles                           0.00            0.00             0.16           0.16
(0.00)         (0.00)           (0.16)         (0.16)
3. Services                                               0.00           0.00             0.70           0.70
(0.00)         (0.00)           (0.18)         (0.18)
4. Training                                               0.00           0.00             0.58           0.58
(0.00)         (0.00)           (0.10)         (0.10)
4. Operating Costs                                        0.00           0.00             1.02           1.02
(0.00)         (0.00)           (0.76)         (0.76)
6. Endowment Fund                                         0.00           0.00             5.50           5.50
(0.00)         (0.00)           (5.50)         (5.50)
Total      0.00           0.05             7.97           8.02
of which funded by GEF    (0.00)                (0.05)           (6.70)         (6.75)
1/     Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies
2/     Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



- 57 -
Table A2: Consultants Selection Arrangements
(US$ Million)
A. Firms                                                 0.28            0.12           0.41
_ _ _ __(0._1_0)            (0.04)=         (0.15)
B. Individuals                            0.21             -             0.09           0.29
(0.02)           -             (0.01)         (0.03)
Total      0.21           0.28            0.12           0.41
of which funded by GE}      (0.02)          (0.10)         (0.05)          (0.18)
QCBS    =  Quality - and Cost-Based Selection
LC       =  Least Cost Section
IC       =  Individual Consultants
Others   =  Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants' Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, Educational Institutions, etc.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Expenditure Category        Contract Value       Procurement       Contracts Subject to
Threshold            Method             Prior Review
(US$ thousands)                          (US$ thousands)
1. Works                             25                 NCB                    25
2. Goods                             10                 NSH                    10
3. Services (Specialist               10                CQB                    10
Services & Training)       l
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



- 58 -
Disbursement Arrangement
Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust (MMCT) will be responsible for processing all disbursement
requests while ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the project meet GOM
and the World Bank standards. A Financial Management Action Plan has been developed to lay out an
essential institutional set-up and internal controls mechanisms as well as to set forth necessary actions for
systems development for sound financial management, and incorporated in the Financial Procedures
Manual. As MMCT is not yet ready for Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements,
existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be
followed. This means direct payment, reimbursement and special commitment. However, the
development of the MMCT's financial management system, in accordance with the Financial
Management Action Plan, is expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within
about 18 months of grant effectiveness.
Disbursement Percentages
It is expected that the grant proceeds from the Global environmental fund by category of expenditures
will be based on the investment to be made into this project after close consultation with board members
and Trustees of Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust. The grant financing shall cover 100% of
expenditures, with no requirement for counterpart funds.
While the MMCT financial accounting system is adequate for the present purposes, it has not yet reached
a stage where it can use PMR based disbursement procedures and is unlikely to be so before effectiveness
and the first two years of the project. Therefore, during Phase I the traditional disbursement procedures
will be used, with statement of expenditure (SOE) and Special Accounts (SA) replenishment based on
documentation submitted. The readiness for PMR disbursements will continue to be monitored, however,
with the option to move to PMR if appropriate. In year 2 of Phase I it is expected that the funds for the
capital endowment of the Trust will be disbursed in a lump sum.
Withdrawal applications for contracts valued at more than US$ 100,000 for goods and works, consulting
firms and US$50,000 for individual consultants would be presented with full documentation for prior
review and disbursement
Special Account
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, the Government will
open a Special Account within a commercial bank maintained by the Central Bank in US Dollars to cover
part of the Bank's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the MMCT under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation of US$ 0.3 million for the
Special Account will cover an estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by the Bank.
Replenishment of funds from the Bank will be made upon evidence of satisfactory utilization of the
advance, reflected in the Statement of Expenditures (SOE) or on full documentation of payments above
the SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications should be submitted monthly, but not exceeding three
month intervals. To the extent possible, all of the Bank's share of expenditures should be paid through the
special account. If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the Special Account, the
Government will be obligated to refund the cost and submit evidence with the next request for
replenishment. In addition, if the Special Account remains inactive for more than six months, the
Government may be requested to refund to the Bank the amounts advanced in the Special Account.



- 59 -
Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Grant Account will be fully documented except for
expenditures against contracts (i) with an estimated value of US$25,000 or less for works, goods and
consulting firms; and (ii) contracts with an estimated value of $10,000 or less for individual consultants;
(iii) all operating costs may be claimed on the basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOE).
Documents supporting these expenditures would be retained by MMCT and other implementing agencies
for their respective components, and will be available for review upon request by the Bank supervision
missions and project auditors.
The usage of statements of expenditure may be phased out when MMCT is ready and converted to
disburse using PMR.
Disbursements and withdrawal procedures are detailed in the World Bank Disbursement Handbook (1992
edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Grant Agreement and the procedures
defined in the Disbursement Letter. The proposed GEF Grant of US$ 6.75 would be disbursed over three
years. The project is divided into two phases. Phase I - Start-Up Phase, will run for three years and all
Bank-supported procurement and disbursement under the project will occur during that period. Project-
related operations and activities amounting to US$1.25 will be spent on goods, services and operational
costs. The US$5.5 million for the endowment fund will be disbursed in one lump sum at the end of year
two of the project. Phase II of the project will be supervised for a further 4 years for a total project period
of 7 years. The expectedProject Completion Date is December 31, 2007 and the Closing Date is
expected to be June 30, 2008. The proposed allocation of Grant Proceeds is shown in table C below.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
Civil Works                               0.06                       100%
Vehicles                                  0.10                       100%
Equipment &Supplies                       0.06                       100%
Specialist Services & Training            0.27                       100%
Operating Costs                           0.76                       100%
Endowment Fund                            5.50                       100%
Total GEF funding                   6.75



- 60 -
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
Project Schedule                 Planned          Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                   42
First Bank mission (identification)         08/15/1995       10/30/1995
Appraisal mission departure                 01/09/1999       04/09/2000
Negotiations                                01/25/2001       03/14/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness               06/30/2001
Preparation assistance:
GEF1 PPG, PHRD and DFID/UK
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Nathalie W. Johnson              Team Leader
Agi Kiss                         Principal Ecologist
Pickford Sibale                  Agricultural Research Specialist
Robert Clement-Jones             Previous Task Team Leader/Sr. Environmental Economist
Jeri Larson                      Operations Analyst
Brian Falconer                   Principal Operations Officer
Anjali Acharya                   Operations Analyst
Francisco Pichon                 Natural Resource Management Specialist
Donald Mphande                   Financial Management Specialist
Subhash Dhingra                  Sr. Procurement Specialist
Rey Castro                       Operations Specialist
Ella Homsby                      Prograrn Assistant
Marie Claire Li                  Program Assistant
Non-Bank members of Project
Team:
Robin Le Breton                  Consultant, Natural Resource Management Specialist
Diane Osgood                     Consultant, Environmental Economist
Harry L. Potter                  ODA Natural Resources Adviser, DFID, British High Commission
John Wilson                      Chairman, MMCT Technical Committee
Uche G. Mbanefo                  Consultant, Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Ken Creighton                    Consultant, Environmental Assessment
Estone Y. Sambo                  Chairman, Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
Jones Njala                      Programme Coordinator, Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
Nina Chee                        Consultant, Environmental Specialist
Eric Guichard                    Consultant, Investment Strategist and Planner
Grant Milne                      Consultant, Economist
Stephen Cavell                   Consultant, Institutional Development and Trust Specialist
Paul Clarke                      DFID, British High Commission
Dougie Brew                      DFID, British High Commission



- 61 -
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain. Biodiversity Conservation Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
To be prepared in final form for Effectiveness.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Draft Trust Administration Manual
Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust Constitution (MMCT)
Draft Reserve Management Plan
Sustainable Utilisation of the Mulanje Massif, ODA, December 1995
Recommendations on Investment Strategy and Financial Management of GEF-supported Endowment
Fund for MMCT, Diane Osgood, March 8, 1996
Back-to-Office Report and Aide-Memoire of Project Appraisal, April 2000
*Including electronic files



- 62 -
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
(Mar-2001)
Difference between expected
Original Amount in                                   and actual
US$ Millions                                   disbursementsa
Project ID      FY    Purpose                               IBRD         IDA    Cancel.   Undisb.            Org        Frm Rev'd
P050294       2001  ADJUSTMENT(FRDPIII)                       000       5510        000      59.91            000             0.00
P063095       2000  Privatzabon and Ublity Reform Project     000       28 90       0 00      28.40           3 39            0 00
P001666       1999  ROADMAIN.&REHAB                           0.00      30.00       000       24.75           891             000
P036038       1999  POPULATION/FP PROJEC                      000        5.00       0.00       354            3.08            0.00
P049599       1999  MASAF II                                  0.00      66 00       0.00      51.60          36 87            0.00
P056376       1998  FISCAL RESTR&DEREG TA                     0.00       2.40       0.00       0.36          -0.94            0 00
P001670       1998  SECONDARY ED PROJECT                      0.00      48.20       0.00      40 71          19.07            0.00
P001664       1997  ENV. MANAGEMENT                           0.00      12.40       0.00       6.78           2.29            0.00
P001648       1996  FISCAL RESTR&DERE                         0.00     102.00       0.00       0.09          -2.93            2.69
P001668       1998  SOCIAL ACTION FUND                        0.00      56.00       0 00       0 51           2 66            0.00
P001667       1995  NAT WATER DEV                             000       79.20       0 00      24.32          25 67            0.00
P001657       1994  INSTIT.DEV.II                             0.00      22 60       0 00       4 66           4.51            0.00
P001636       1992  LOCAL GOVT                                0.00      24.00       0 67       3 73           3 90            0.84
Total:       0.00     531 80       0.67     249.37         106 49             3.53



- 63 -
MALAWI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval  Company               Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999         AEF City Lodge         0.64     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995         AEFMalStkbrkrs         0.00     0.11    0.00    0.0(    0.00    0.11    0.00    0.00
1997         AEF Maravi             0.42     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.42    0.00    (.00    0.00
1996         AEF Mwaiwathu          0.00     0.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.81    0.00    0.00
1998         AEF Ufulu Garden       0.29     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/90      LFCM                   0.00     0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00    0.00
2000         NICO                   0.00      1.04    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.04    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:            1.35      2.07    0.00    0.00    1.30    2.07    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval    Company             Loan        Equity      Quasi       Partic
1998           HOFICO               0.00        0.00      300.00        0.00
1998           Ll)HM                0.00        0.00      500.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00        0.00      800.00        0.00



- 64 -
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALAWI: Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Saharan      Low-
Malawi    Africa   Income         Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year(millons)                             10.8       642      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                        180        500        410
GNP (At/as method, US$ billions)                           2 0       321        988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                             2.6        2.6        1.9
Labor force (%)                                            2.2        2.6       2.3      GNP                                 G r os..s Gross
per                        ----  primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                    capita                          enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulabon below nationalpoverly line)
Urban populabon(%  oftotalpopulalon)                       24         34         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           42         50         60
Infantmortality (per 1,000  lve births)                  134         92         77
Child mainutritlon (% of children under5)                  30         32         43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of populatbon)           45        43         64
Illiteracy (% of popu/a tion age 15+)                      41         39         39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populabon)      134         78         96                -Ma/owi
Male                                                    140         85        102                   Low-income group
Female                                                  127         71         86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               1.1       1.6        1 7        1 8
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                    32.5      24 6       13.5      14.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP               22.4      18.8       30.5      30.0                       Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      15.5       8.8        05        6 8
Gross national savings/GDP                       4 0       4.8       -3.4       3 5
Currentaccountbalan,ce/GDP                         ..    -13 4      -16.8     -11.2 
Interest payments/GDP                            2.2       1 8        1.6        1.5     Domestic          -            Investnent
Total debt/GDP                                  61.2      887       132.0      1314      Savings
Total debt service/exports                      17.9      39.5       19.3       179
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                             79.0       81.8
Presentvalue ofdebt/exports                                         261.1     259.3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    2.1       3.8       3.3        4.5       56 8a                      -      -o         u
GNP per capita                        -0.7       1.2      -0.3        2.5        3.3          Ma/wl           Low-income group
Exports of goods and services           2 6      6.6       6.5       -1.9       4 8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%i
(% of GDP)                                                                               2x
Agriculture                                     55.2      47.7       35.9      38 0
Industry                                        26.2      27.9       17.8       192       x
Manufacturing                                  16.1     18.5       13.8       14.0
Services                                        18.6      24 4       46.4      42 8
Private consumption                             66 2      74.8       86.2      80.9    -*o
General governmentconsumption                   18.4      16.3       13.3      124
Imports otgoods and services                    39 5      34.5       435       380                        0 D -G    GDP
1979-89  1988-99       1988       1999      Growth of exports and imports I% I
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      1 5       6.6        4,5        7 0     2x 
Industry                                         2.1       1.7        3 3       4 S       ox
Manufacturing                                  3 0      -1.8        3.3        4 5
Services                                         2 9       3.7        4 7        2 9      o  , . .            '    '  Xl ..
Private consumption                              2.1       6.8       -1.9       -08      ,
General governmentconsumption                    6.0      -4 1        6.0      -4 8
Gross domestic investment                       -5.2      -8.2       -7.3       11 5     i
Imports of goods and services                   -1.8      -0.2       -6.3      -9.6             -      Exporls    Im ports
Gross national product                           2.6       3.9        2.3       5 2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-groLip average. I data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 65 -
Ma lawi
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979      1989        1998       1999       Intlation j%j
Domestic prkces
(% change)                                                                                      7o
Consumer prices                                        ..      12 5        27.4       45 3       75-
Implicit GDP deflator                                -0.6      22.5       25 4        41 5       IC - 
Government finance                                                                               254
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                               0
Current revenue                                      13.6      22 7        11 7       16 6                94    ss    9r    27       90    99
Current budget balance                               -1 4      -0.1        -9 5       -0.7                 -G0F deflator   OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            -11 1       -67        -10,7     -11 1
TRADE
1979      1989        1998       1999        E.port and import levels (USB mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                            269         509        470       00
Tobacco                                                      169         270        272
Tea                                                           37          63         59
Manufactuires                                        3.        3         136        102
Total Imports (Cit)                                    .       405         690        647       *
Food                                                 ..         4         47         23
Fuel and energy                                               4             6        8
Capital goods                                                  1         30         34 
Export price index (1995= 100)                         .       106          98         97             93    94    95    9o   97    go   99
Import price index (1995= 100)                         ..       81          82         84                     usEaP1rts       *Imporns
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              ..      131         120        116
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979      1989        1998       1999       Current ace.unt balance to DOP I%X
(US$ mi/llons)
Exports of goods and services                        257       299         515        542
Imports of goods and services                        451       447         740        6866
Resource balance                                    -194      -149        -225       -144 
Net income                                          -2          5           4          3
Net current transfers                                  0        -14        -22        -23
Cuirrent account balance                               .       -213       -292       -203
Financing items (net)                .                  ..      172        366        201
Changes in net reserves                               77         40         -74          2 u2 .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                76       209         516        233
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                      0 8       2.6        31.1       44 1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979      1989        1998       1999
(US$ millions)                                                                                  Compositi-n of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt ouitstanding and disbursed                670      1,411      2,293      2,379
IBRD                                                18        91          26         17                    F 19  G: 27 A. 17
IDA                                                116       625       1,466      1,586               E:246
Total debt service                                    46       122         101        102
IBRD                                                 1        15          11         10    *          425
IDA                                                            6                     2
Composition of net resource flows
Ofticial grunts                                     0        19          23         14
Official creditors                                  65        84          91        109            C: 89
Private creditors                                   33         7          -1          0                                         8  ,8
Foreign direct investment                           -1         ..          1         39
Portfolio equity                                    ..        ..          24          0
World Bank program
Commitments  I/                                     40        82          51         30       A - IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                       27        82         101        68        B - IDA    D  Othermltilateral  F- Pvate
Principal repayments                                 1         9          18         22       C - IMF                         G - Short-te
Net flows                                           27        72          83         66
Interest payments                                    1        12          14         13
Net transfers                                       25        61          69         53
Development Economics                                                                                                                   9)9100



- 66 -
Annex No.: 11
Technical Review
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TECHNICAL REVIEW
Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
STAP Reviewer: Kenton R. Miller, Ph. D.
Date:    5 March 1999
1.   OVERALL IMPRESSION
This is a well-conceived and well-written project proposal. The target
audience is clear. The model is simple and straightforward, The.odds of
sucess are very high. The GEF intervention is also very important for
technical and scientific reasons, and for social priorities in the region.
2.   RELEVANCE ANND PRIORITY
The proposal is important because of the uniqueness of the biodiversity to
be safeguarded and carefully utilized. It is clearly a priority area for action
for the government, and it addresses prioriies set by the CBD/COP.
3.  BACKGROUND AND JUSTIFICATION
Generally, sufficient ecological, economic and social information has been
provided to substantiate the proposal. The project appears to fit well within
national priorities and commitments, Malawi has been very active in the
CBD/COP including a special project with the Dutch on ecosystem
managern.dnt. This latter perhaps warrants rnention in the document.
Clearly the biodiversity of the Mulanje Mountain is under threat, and without
serious intervention, is doomed to become a totally domesticated
landscape. Already the majority of the larger faunal species have
disappeared. The vegetation, birdlife and other taxa are now facing
extinction. Furthermore, the Department of Forestry lacks the resources to
manage and protect the area.
4.   SCIEFNTIFIC AND TECHNICAL SOUNDNESS
The proposal itself is sound, Clarifying the state of knowledge and
methods for watershed management, habitat restoration, plant propagation,
animal reintroduction, etc could strengthen the presentation. Perhaps local
university workers have that background information. Alternatively, project
1



- 67 -
planners may have in mind that this type of inqulry and research may take
place once the project is implementation. In any case, it is not possible to
judge from this proposal whether there is sufficient know-how and technical
background to meet the objectives.
S.   OBJECTIVES
The project deve[opment objectives are valid. The Jack of diret reference
to watershed protection, restoraton, and management is curious, however.
Perhaps that role is covered by another project. If so, mention should be
made. Otherwise, the fact that nine rivers are bom on the massif raises
questions about management, and imiportantly, capturing rents from
downstream water users to help upstream communities and the protected
area agency defray their costsishare in the benefits.
6. ACTIVITIES
The division of implementation into three phases is important. During the
preparatory phase, it might be helpful to explicit refer to the search for
existing knowledge and methods for propagation of native plants,
restoration of habitats, reintroduction of animal species, eradication of
invasives, etc. I would also like to see a search for background on
watershed management techniques, institutional arrangements and
existing policies for rent capture.
Of partirular interest is silvicultural and plant ecology background on the
Cedar forest species. Apparently, the commercial use of this species,
assuming proper management treatment and controls oould serve as the
economic backbone for local communities. Perhaps this Is included
implicitly in the third activity under Phase 1.
The Conservation Trust Fund is a singularly important feature of this
project. Waiting until Phase 1I to begin using Trust income is also valid,
pending development of capacity, community arrangements and education,
Activity (i;) under Phase 11, is too cryptic to give a full appreciation of the
opportunities. Some expansion would help the reader appreciate the
significance of revenue generating schemes, the sources of alternative
incomes, etc.
2



- 68 -
,Again, I would explicitly add watershed management activities in the
program of work. While they are of national or baseline levels of work, they
could help generate income to support the Trust, and strengthen
justification for area conservation.
7.   PARTICIPATORY ASPECTS
Early project preparation appears to have adequately involved relevant
stakeholders. During irnplementation, the major effort of the project will be
by and through stakeholders together with the Forest Department. The cc-
management activities promise to ensure equitable benefit shadng.
8.   GLOBAL BENEFITS
The global community will benefit from the preservation of the biodiversity
and unique ecosystems of the Mulanje massif. The proposal defends well
these values and justification.
9,   GEF STRATEGIES AND PLANS
The relationship of the project to the GEF Operational Strategy for
Biodiversity Conservation, and specifically with its Mountain Ecosystem
Operational Program, is clear and significant. The Project also aligns well
with the program priorities (mountain) and provisions (conservation,
sustainable use, equitable sharing of benefits) of the CBO.
10. REPLICABILITY
While mountain massifs vary ecologically, they are a frequent part of the
African landscape. Typically, they are sources of stream flow, and provide
sources of distinct plant and animal resources to people living in the
lowlands. The model and practices developed by this project can serve
other massif communitles to launch their own programs of restoration and
development. (see #15 below)
11. CAPACITY BUILDING
The project has a robust training program. Noteworthy are the capacity
building efforts to develop the Trust, PRA, community extension, and the
Forest Department.
:3



- 69 -
12. PROJECT FUNDING
Funding appears adequate for the proposed actvities.
13. TIME FRAME
The time line is not clear. Apparently the preparatory phase will last from
18-24 months, and the entire project 7 years. But there are no other
indicators of mileposts, outputs/unit time, or outcomes by dates in the
future. These should be added before approval.
14. SECONDARY ISSUES
Some of the waters flowing from the massff flow into Mozambique, making
this project relevant to the international waters fcoal area. Any work to
improve agriculture wvith organic materials and techniques, and reforest
degrading areas, also relate to Climate Change goals.
The design and mianagement of the Trust are innovative features of this
project.
15. ADDITIONAL COMMENTS
This is a well-conceived proposai I urge the GEF to give it their full
consideration.
The document could be strengthened by:
* Adding a time line, with mileposts, outposts and outcomes,
* Clarifying the status of knowledge and practioe on the plants of the area,
restoration, soils, invasives, etc
* Making explicit tie to intemational waters and dimate (through soil
restoration work).
* Elaborating on watershed management as an objctive, and add
appropriate activities.
* And, elaborate more on developing and using the areas for
demonstration and extension purposes. This is important an deserves
more detail.
4



- 70 -
Annex No.: 12
Response to STAP Review
Background and Justification: The technical reviewer confirms that sufficient ecological and economic
and social information has been provided to substantiate the proposal. He also states that the project fits
well within the national priorities and commitments. The reviewer mentions a special project financed by
the Dutch on ecosystem management and suggests that there is merit in including mention of this program
in the project proposal. The World Bank project team and our Malawian counterpart are unfortunately
not aware of this special program. We are seeking clarification on the program from the STAP reviever
and we will follow up with the Dutch to learn more about the program and its relevance to the proposed
project.
Scientific and Technical Soundness: The STAP reviewer's view is that the proposal is scientifically and
technically sound. He seeks clarification of the state of knowledge of methods for watershed
management, habitat restoration, plant propagation, etc., as they relate to project implementation. These
are of course critical issues in the management and conservation of the Mt. Mulanje Reserve. Comment
on the state of knowledge of all these issues could not be accommodated in the PCD proposal, but this
information will be included in the final Reserve Management Plan which is currently being drafted and
will be finalized at the end of the project preparation phase. Any gaps in the state of knowledge of these
critical issues will be addressed as a priority under the studies and monitoring component.
Activities: The reviewer suggested that more details on the opportunities for revenue generating schemes
and the sources of alternative income generating activities should be provided. The details of the specific
kinds of activities, which will be eligible for GEF support under this component, are being developed as
part of the socioeconomic study now underway as part of project preparation. These details will be
included in the Trust Administration Manual which spells out the basic operational rules and mechanisms.
The reviewer also suggested explicit watershed management activities be included in the program of
work. Activities supported under the program which address watershed management include:
establishment and rehabilitation of firebreaks; development and implementation of the conservation plan
for cedar; implementation of a plan for alien species eradication.
Time Frame: The reviewer suggests that a time line be added which describes the project phasing,
mileposts and outcomes. While the outcomes have been incorporated in the Annex A logframe, we have
added dates and indicators for the completion of Phase I and the start of Phase II in the text. A more
detailed project implementation plan will be prepared in advanced project preparation which will detail
the conditions of the phasing and the agreed bench marks for transition from preparation to Phase I and on
to Phase II.
Secondary Issues: The reviewers suggests that the project is relevant to not only the biodiversity focal
area but also the international waters and Climate Change goals. Exploration into the additional
international waters, and climate change benefits will be undertaken in advanced project preparation and
incorporated in the benefits section of the project proposal.
Additional Comments: All of the additional comments have been addressed above under separate
headings with the exception of the issue of using the area for demonstration and extension purposes. It is
clear that if the project is successful, there will be opportunities to use the project as a showcase for both
Conservation Trusts and also for demonstration in Malawi of areas where the government policy of co-
management is working. We will incorporate this idea into the project implementation plan and also the
monitoring component of the project.



- 71 -
Annex No.: 13
Additional Biodiversity Information
Mulanje Mountain, located in south-eastern Malawi, lies between latitudes 15o50'-16o03'S and
longitudes 35o30'-35o47'E. It extends over 640 sq. km. (64000 hectares) and its precipitous flanks rise
from an average 700m to 3002m above sea level. It is the highest mountain in south-central Africa. The
mountain is an area of afro-montane vegetation and has a large number of endemic flora and fauna
species, many of which are endangered or threatened by extinction. The massif is completely surrounded
by villages, small-scale cultivation, and tea estates. There is a marked difference in the annual geographic
distribution of rainfall ranging from about 300mm in the rain shadow of the massif's southwest section to
almost 3000mm on the Lichenya Plateau. Drainage is radial and the mountain serves as the source of
headwaters for nine rivers.
The massif s dominant vegetation varies with altitude, relief, aspect, rock forn, soils, and incidence of
fire. It ranges from themiombo woodlands dominated by Brachystegia species at its base to afro-
montane forest near its summit. An analysis of the predominant vegetation composition indicated that the
afro-montane indicator species increase from 22% of total species in the lowland forest to 44% in the
mid-altitude forest to 76% at altitudes between 1 600m and 1 950m on the upper slopes and plateaus. A
fire-induced grassland dominates on the massifs plateaus, broken only by forested ravines and gullies.
The following six different plant communities exist on the mountain: (1) The High Altitude Zone (2400m
to 3000m above sea level) which includes the endemic grass Aloeachele oreogena. Aloe arborescense,
A/oe mawii, Helichrysum whyteanum (Whyte's Everlasting SuII Flower) and Xerophytica splendens (Stag
Horn Lily); (2) The Plateau Grassland Zone (1800 to 2200m.a.s.l.) which contains many temperate
species, including Erica johnsionia and Morea schimperi (Mulanje Iris) both of which are endemic; (3)
The Montane Evergreen Forest Zone (1675 to 2500 m.a.s.l.) which is dominated by the Widdringtonia
cupressoides (Mulanje Cedar, the National Tree) and Olea capensis; (4) The Mid-Altitude Evergreen
Forest Zone (900 to 1500 m.a.s.l.) whose forests comprise Newtonia buchananii, Chrysophllum
gorungo.vum and Podocarpus with a rich understorey, (5) The Rclic Lowland Semi-Evergreen Forest
Zone (600 to 950m.a.s.l.) which is dominated by Khaya anthotheca, Adine microcephele and Newtonia
buchananii; and (6) The Closed Canopy Miombo Woodland Zone (700 to 900 m.a.s.l.) which is
dominated by Brachystegia spp.
Mulanje Mountain is one of Africa's key sites for threatened bird species. Its forests are part of the
Tanganyika-Nyasa Mountain Group Endemic Bird Area (EBA) which includes the mountains between
southeastern Kenya and northern Mozambique, and support four of the 35 restricted-range bird species of
the EBA. Three of the EBA species occurring in the mountain are the endangered Thyolo Alethe (Alethe
cholonsis), the rare spotted ground-thrush (Turdus fischeri), and the white-winged Apalis (Apalis
chariessa). The massifs habitat has 250 bird species, 41 of which are endemic. Mount Mulanje also has
the largest number of forest butterflies found in Malawi (I 18 species, five of which are endemic), nine
species of endemic reptiles, two endemic amphibians and one endemic mollusc. Other studies indicate
similar endemism or very restricted distribution in the highlands and high rainfall areas with respect to
species of various fauna of the lower tetrapods and fishes. However., the vast herds of herbivores that
once roamed the wooded foot of the mountain and the grazers of the open grassy areas are no longer seen.
The only antelopes that survive are those that live hidden in dense vegetation, like the bushbuck and
duikers. or find refuge on steep rock, like klipspringers. The few prey species that survive on the
mountain like the leopards are under extreme pressure due to dwindling food source and as a result of
being hunted for their skin.



- 72 -
The first published account of Mulanje's vegetation was that of Alexander Whyte in 1891 whose
collections include the Mulanje Cedar (Widdringtonia cupressoides) and two Erica species There are
over 600 species of vegetation, of which 41 are endemic non-flowering and flowering trees, shrubs, and
herbs in the six different plant communities. Due to its high endemism, Mt. Mulanje was identified by
the World Wildlife Fund as one of 20 areas in the world for the conservation of biodivesrity. It was
designated as an Afromontane Regional Centre of Endemism: CPD site AF64. As a result of Mulanje
Mountain's uniqueness as a special ecosystem of international importance, rich in plant and animal life,
the massif has also been included among the World Heritage Sites as designated by UNESCO.
The timber and fuelwood plantations (making up only about 8% of the massif s area) are managed
according to the Forestry Department Planning Unit recommendations. Pine plantations were established
on the Chambe plateau and Likhubula (575 ha), Fort Lister (657 ha), Muloza drift (I 298 ha) to produce
timber. Eucalyptus plantations at Nanchidwa (2,800 ha) were established in 1980 under the World Bank
Wood Energy Project around parts of the reserve boundary to provide fuelwood and poles and to stop
encroachment. There are 40 licensed pine pit sawvyers.



- 73 -
Annex No.: 14
Letter of Country Endorsement
By Designated Operational Focal Point
TgkW*m~:V04&vakeng                                            MINISThy OF ViNANCB
sX:tdotsw1$22Sg t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.O. bOx 34Z9
T41c0wab: U1orgvs 112 199                                        V  bx3x
Tkitc 404U                                                         LI_W OWE I
763 6S79                                                          MALAWI
REP. NO.S2/1/                        2nd march, legs  ,
The World Bank                                             . 3;.  .
1818iH Street N. W.:                                        j .,
Washlngton D. C. 20433
U.S.A                         - .;.
(Attention  Us. Cynthia Cook)                          ....
Dear sir,
MULANJ6 MOUNTAIN 8J0R!yff_RSlTY CONSIERVATION PROJ4W(GEF-
PPG TF0Z8356)
As yoU are aware, the GEFlWorld Bank granted a sum of
USS300,000:00 as a Project Preparatton Grant to prepare the-above
mentioned Project. TMe preparation process of the project has
now been completed and requires CEF funding.
we wish to advise the Bank ttnat the Government of Malaawi
supports the Project ancd wouid De grateful If tne project coulC be
financially supported by GEF through the Bank.
Your usual assistance will be greatly appreciated.
Yours Faithfully
McCallum M. M. Sibande
For; THE SECRETARY TO THE TREAURY
Copy: The Secretary for Forestry, Fisheries and Environmental
Affairs, Lilongwe 3.






IBRD 31130
3'2'   ~ ~ ~ ~ TNANA36'
A     N Z A N I A
0  2,   AO    0 801 00 To Dor  SalaonomI 
-10,                                                                                              lo-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
MALAWI
ZAMBIA~~~~~~~~~~~UMH
-120       g                     z/m<f    8          A       Y      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED UNPAVED ROADS  l0
( jit 42_ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
/ g ._$ '_o ~~~~~~~~~~~~ TOWNS
J   /    /S            .  z    w ;              s   ~~~~~~~~~~~~DISTRICT CAPITALS
\   rEjt , end                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
g 5 t C ' < % /~~~~~~~~~~~- --    DISTRICT  BOUNDARIES 
%MZIMB1    NKHATA  ,kU'.t2J'                PRINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ZAMBIA                         BAY~~~~~~~MZABIU
/ ~          ~~~~~ ~~~~ S)  -Rr' RIVERS*!
ffX  Ta Lu aka  : <3        g       L      I       L     ,  AMa~~~~~~~ ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~kan jilo  
,  ~~' <DEDZA0'\\                                                                  140-Z
DEMOCRWAiACXf                                       MO       MBIQ                     ND    '7o
CONGO     ))                                                                                               C  t   tilwAtO  *a
GZA /-4   >  4    ~~        W                          '1:W,,,I                 0   TOWNS
/                         0   DISTRICT C~~~~PAPITALS
X r-'BOTSWANA~~/    ,                                   --~                             INENTOA BRnt  iGOUND ARYIugES
AMBIQU                                                             M ZA BIU
ZAMBIA                                                      CHIKWHNJ 7~,DOA  Dw
j   ,t' sOUTH  X  t<.1,S,, };2t.9                          7    <  5    j  5rrncyhebndordemenMapDesinfUnt ofThe orld Bpank. o
Tn books ~~~~~~~~~~~~~chinhi)  * ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     Te oudaies clos,denmiaton
ZiMBABW                                                                irama    nd snyoher i[frmationshown o
>   >  AFRICA 34  g .  ;-;FX                        3A0                 \      )              36
October 2000



