Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028898 MAI
Project Agreement
(Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
Acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
and
MULANJE MOUNTAIN CONSERVATION TRUST
Dated  July 9, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028898 MAI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT BANK(the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain 
members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and MULANJE MOUNTAIN CONSERVATION TRUST 
(MMCT).
WHEREAS (A) by the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Malawi (the Recipient) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make 
available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million 
and three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, but only on conditions that MMCT agrees to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement (the MMCT Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Recipient and MMCT, the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant provided 
for under the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund Grant Agreement will be 
made available to MMCT on the terms and conditions set forth in the MMCT Subsidiary 
Page  2
Agreement; and
WHEREAS MMCT, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed 
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Global Environment Trust (GEF) Fund Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement 
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) MMCT declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial conservation and biodiversity practices, and 
with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and MMCT shall otherwise agree, MMCT shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and the TAM.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) MMCT shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, MMCT shall:
(i)
prepare jointly with the Recipient, on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and MMCT and the 
Recipient, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
MMCT and the Recipient on the said plan.
Section 2.04. MMCT shall duly perform all its obligations under the MMCT 
Subsidiary Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MMCT shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the MMCT Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) MMCT shall, at the request of the Bank or the Recipient, 
exchange views with the Bank and the Recipient with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the MMCT 
Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund 
Page  3
Grant.
(b)
MMCT shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or the performance by MMCT of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the MMCT Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MMCT
Section 3.01. MMCT shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial, biodiversity, ecological and 
environmental practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. MMCT shall take all reasonable steps within its means to operate 
and maintain its assets and investments, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, and financial practices.
Section 3.03. MMCT shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) MMCT shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.
(b)
MMCT shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year, including those for the 
Special Account audited in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and 
(B)
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, MMCT shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for 
the strengthening of its financial system in order to enable MMCT, not later than 
December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank.  Each such report shall:
Page  4
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and application of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered 
by 
said report, and show separately expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant during 
the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in the implementation of the Project 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and explain variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under of the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, as at the end of the period covered 
by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, MMCT shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank, not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of MMCT 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms; 
or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement terminates 
in accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify MMCT of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  5
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For MMCT:
Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
P.O. Box 139
Mulanje
Malawi
Fax: (265) 465-241
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of MMCT may be 
taken or executed by the Executive Director of  MMCT or such other person or persons 
as TMB shall designate in writing, and MMCT shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
As an implementing agency of the 
   Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
MULANJE MOUNTAIN CONSERVATION TRUST
By /s/ Tony Kandiero
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, MMCT shall, in carrying out the 
Project, apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the TAM and shall not amend 
the TAM or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will 
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
(a)
TMB shall be responsible for the operations and management of MMFR 
biodiversity and for the overall implementation of the Project with the assistance of 
TAU.
(b)
Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, TMB shall: (i) 
arrange for and oversee the investment of MMFR’s capital (ii) allocate the annual 
income in accordance with the TAM; (iii)  cause accounts to be prepared and audited; 
and (iv) monitor and periodically furnish to the Recipient and the Bank reports on the 
Page  6
implementation of the Project and the accomplishment of its objectives.
(c)
TMB shall, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank meet, at least quarterly 
to, inter alia, decide on the allocation of income accrued in the preceding quarter.
(d)
TMB shall promptly adopt an investment strategy and thereafter appoint an 
assets manager, all satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
MMCT shall establish and thereafter maintain the TAU in Mulanje.  The TAU shall 
consist of an Executive Director, three Program Officers, an Accountant and support 
staff, all with terms and conditions and experience satisfactory to the Bank.  The TAU 
will be responsible for: (i) developing the program content for each of the three 
components Biodiversity conservation, Research and Monitoring; Environmental 
Education; and Forest co-management and Livelihoods; (ii) working in collaboration 
with the FD and suitable NGOs to carry through the three programs in (i) above; (iii) 
submitting annual work plans and budgets to the TMB for approval; (iv) disbursing 
approved funds and ensuring that proper disbursement, procurement and supervision 
procedures are followed; (v) maintaining financial records and accounting/reporting; 
and (vi) ensuring ongoing monitoring and evaluation of all work receiving MMCT 
funding.
4.
MMCT shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of  the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 15, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
5.
MMCT shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators referred to in 
Schedule 4 to the GEF Trust Fund Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than 18 months after effectiveness date of the GEF Trust Fund 
Agreement, undertake, in conjunction with the Bank, a joint midterm review of the 
Project, during which they shall exchange views generally on: (i) all matters relating 
to the progress of the Project, (ii) the performance by the MMCT of its obligations 
under this Agreement, and (iii) the progress achieved by the MMCT in the 
implementation of the Project, having regard to the performance indicators referred to 
in Schedule 4 to the GEF Trust Fund Agreement;
(c)
not later than one month prior to the midterm review, furnish to the 
Bank, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, of the various matters 
to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following the midterm review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take, or cause to be taken, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy 
any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, or cause 
to be implemented, such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the 
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
SCHEDULE 2
Page  7
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international/national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
Page  8
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services under Part A, B, C and D of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consultant firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more and individual consultants estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
