Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER  028898 MAI
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated July 9, 2001
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028898 MAI
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF MALAWI (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis 
set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
Page  2
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for 
the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2; and
(E)
the Project will be carried out by the Mulanje Mountain Conservation 
Trust (MMCT) with the Recipient’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Recipient will make available to the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust the proceeds 
of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as provided in this Agreement (the Mulanje Mountain 
Conservation Trust Fund or MMCTF); 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated January 
1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
(15), (18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o) 
and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 
9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to 
read as follows: "the term 'Special Drawing Rights' and the 
symbol 'SDR' mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of 
Agreement";
(ii)
the term 'Bank', wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use 
Page  3
of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as 
an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the 
term 'Bank' shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term 'Borrower', wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term 'Loan Agreement', wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term 'Loan' and 'loan', wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term 'Loan Account', wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
'Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in 
the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank 
or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge 
of the Bank, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.'; and
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: 'an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen in which any further disbursement 
under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF.'
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"FD" means the  Forestry Department within the MNREA (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(b)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization of the 
United Nations; 
(c)
"MMCT" means the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust, a charitable entity 
incorporated in Malawi as a Trust under the Malawi Trustees Incorporation Act (CAP 
5:03) and established in 1994 in accordance with the principles and objectives of its 
Constitution of April 13, 2000;
(d)
 "MMCT Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and the MMCT establishing the terms and conditions for the 
transfer of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the MMCT;
(e)
 "MMCTF" means the Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust Fund or MMCT 
capital account formed in part by the endowment funds from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
that will be transferred from the Recipient to the MMCT for the purposes of Part E of 
this Project and in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the MMCT 
Subsidiary Agreement;
(f)
"MMFR" or "Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve" means the Mulanje Mountain 
Reserve established pursuant to the Forest Act (CAP 63:01);
(g)
"MNREA" means the Recipient’s Ministry of Natural Resources and 
Environmental Affairs; 
(h)
"NGO" means a non-government organization operating under the laws of the 
Recipient;
Page  4
(i)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Bank and MMCT, as such agreement may be amended from time to time and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(k)
"TAM" means the Trust Administration Manual including the details and 
procedures for the operation of MMCT;
(l)
"TAU" means the Trust Administration Unit to be established within the 
MMCT for the purposes of this Agreement; and
(m)
"TMB" means the Trust Management Board comprising of Trustees of MMCT.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million and three hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause MMCT to carry out the Project and to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of MMCT therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable  MMCT to 
perform such obligations, and  shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
available to MMCT as a Grant (the MMCTF Grant), under a Subsidiary Agreement (the MMCT 
Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the Recipient and MMCT under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the MMCT Subsidiary 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
subsidiary agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  5
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.04.  The Recipient shall consult the Bank, prior to making any changes 
to the composition of the TMB.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) 
of this Section and those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Page  6
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that:
(a)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Project or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
MMCT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that MMCT will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
the Recipient’s Trustees Incorporation Act (CAP 5:03) and the 
Constitution of April 13, 2000, establishing the MMCT, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of MMCT to perform any of its obligations; 
(e)
the Recipient’s Forest Act (CAP 63:01), establishing the MMFR, shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Recipient or the MMCT to perform any of their 
obligations; and
(f)
the MMCT Subsidiary Agreement between the Recipient and MMCT shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the MMCT to perform any of its obligations. 
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions; 
(a)
the Recipient has adopted the TAM, in form and substance acceptable to 
the Bank; and
(b)
the MMCT Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the Recipient and 
MMCT.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by  MMCT, 
and is legally binding upon MMCT in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the MMCT Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Recipient and MMCT and is legally binding upon the Recipient and MMCT in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder.
Page  7
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Recipient's Minister of Finance is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance 
P.O. Box 30049
Capital City
Lilongwe 3
Malawi
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANCE
44407 MI
Malawi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of American, as of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
By /s/ Tony Kandiero
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Pamela Cox
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   50,000
100% 
(2) 
Goods
  125,000
100% 
(3)
Consultants’
  210,000
100%
Services
including training
(4)
MMCTF Endowment Fund
4,315,000
100%
(5)
Operating Costs
  600,000
100%
TOTAL
5,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Costs" means the 
incremental expenses incurred by MMCT on account of the Project implementation, 
including management and monitoring, office supplies, vehicle fuel and maintenance, 
travel, supervision costs and audits, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil 
service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $15,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after January 01, 2001; and (b) payments made for expenditures under 
Category 4 until: (i) two years from the date of effectiveness; (ii) the MMCT Trust 
Management Board and the MMCT Trust Administration Unit have been established and are 
performing in a form and substance acceptable to the Bank; (iii) the completion and 
initial implementation of the MMFR Reserve Management Plan; (iv) the development and 
launching of a fund raising strategy for the MMCT acceptable to the Bank; (v) evidence 
of the Recipient’s Forestry Department presence and activity on the MMFR has been 
accepted by the Bank; (vi) before the Recipient has allocated operating funds to the 
FD and FD has allocated operating funds to MMFR in form acceptable to the Bank; (vii) 
the Bank has received evidence of adequate progress in the restructuring of the 
Recipient’s FD; and (viii) TMB has approved an investment strategy satisfactory to the 
Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and 
consultant firms under contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent, for individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $10,000 and for operating costs, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the biodiversity and ecosystems 
conservation of the Mulanje massif in Malawi through the provision of: (i) technical 
Page  9
and financial assistance to develop institutional and management capacity of FD, MMCT 
and the local communities to implement environmental conservation activities in the 
MMFR; (ii) financial and technical support for biodiversity studies, research and 
monitoring activities; (iii) financial support to environmental education and 
campaigns; and (iv) funds to the MMCTF endowment fund.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Establishment of the TAU within the MMCT, through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training and acquisition of equipment. 
2.
Strengthening of TMB, TAU and FD for the development of administrative 
arrangements to support the conservation of the MMFR, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training.  
Part B:
Biodiversity Conservation, Research  and Monitoring
1.
(a)
Carrying out of a biodiversity baseline survey and monitoring activities 
in the MMFR; and (b) capacity building of the FD and the MMCT on biodiversity 
protection, management and monitoring of the MMFR, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training. 
2.
Carrying out of conservation activities in the MMFR, through the acquisition of 
tools and equipment, the provision of technical advisory services and the contracting 
of labor from local community. 
Part C:
Environmental Education
Carrying out of environmental education activities and awareness campaigns, 
through the provision of technical advisory services.
Part D:
Forest Co-Management
Development of co-management skills for MMCT, FD and NGOs and carrying out of 
training activities and workshops on co-management of  the MMFR for its stakeholders, 
through the provision of technical advisory services. 
Part E:
MMCTF
The provision of endowed financing for the MMCTF to sustain funding for 
biodiversity conservation of the MMFR.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  10
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, 
on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the  Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Page  11
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Performance Indicators
(1) 
Biodiversity conservation aspects of MMFR Mgmt. Plan under implementation 
(measured through the MMCT ecological monitoring program)
(2) 
Ecosystem of MMFR maintained in good condition (measured through mapping of 
encroached areas and ecological monitoring) 
(3) 
Community knowledge and appreciation increased re target messages (measured 
through community attitude surveys, FD field reports)
(4) 
Decrease in FD/Community conflict relating to Reserve access and use ( measured 
through FD operating budget for MMFR)
(5) 
Proportion of MMFR resources under co-management (measured through functional 
co-management agreements)
(6) 
Effective biodiversity conservation program maintained over time in the face of 
changing circumstances (measured through M&E reports and WB supervision reports)
(7) 
Local stakeholders aware of and positive towards MMCT and its objectives 
(measured through awareness/attitudes surveys)
