                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR0000195




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (TF-28898)




                                        ON A

                                  GRANT FROM THE

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.3 MILLION
                         (US$ 6.75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                       FOR A

         MULANJE MOUNTAIN BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT



                                    March 6, 2009




Environment and Natural Resources Management Unit
Country Department 2
Africa Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2008

            Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
                    MK 1.00 = US$ 0.0069
                      US$ 1.00 = MK 145

               FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
                    January 1 ­ December 31



           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DNA        Deoxyribonucleic acid
DFID       U.K. Department for International Development
EMP        Ecological Monitoring Program
FD         Forest Department
FRIM       Forest Research Institute of Malawi
GBR        Global Biosphere Reserve
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GEO        Global Environmental Objective(s)
GoM        Government of Malawi
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency
           Syndrome
IAS        International Accounting Standard
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR        Implementation Status Report
MGDS       Malawi Growth and Development Strategy
MK         Malawi Kwacha
MODIS      Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MMBCP      Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project
MMCT       Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
MMFR       Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve
MoU        Memorandum of Understanding
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PPP        Public Private Partnership
QEA        Quality at Entry
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
TAM        Trust Administration Manual
TAU        Trust Administration Unit

UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
         Organization
VNRMC    Village Natural Resources Management Committees
WCS      Wildlife Conservation Society
WESM     Wildlife and Environmental Society of Malawi
WB       World Bank




              Vice President:       Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
            Country Director:       Michael Baxter
             Sector Manager:        Marjory-Anne Bromhead
         Project Team Leader:       Cary Anne Cadman
           ICR Team Leader:         Cary Anne Cadman

                                                            MALAWI

  MULANJE MOUNTAIN BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT



                                                         CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...........................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................................... 8
3. Assessment of Outcomes....................................................................................................................... 20
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..................................................................26
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................................................27
6. Lessons Learned.....................................................................................................................................30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners................................32


Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...............................................................................33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...............................................................................................................35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.........................................................................54
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..........................................56
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result.................................................................................57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..............................................................58
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................................60
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................................61
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................................................62

Map.......................................................................................................................63

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Mulanje Mt.
Country:               Malawi                  Project Name:          Biodiversity
                                                                      Conservation Project
Project ID:            P035917                 L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-28898
ICR Date:              03/03/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      MALAWI
Original Total
                       USD 6.8M                Disbursed Amount:      USD 6.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C                      Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/15/1998    Effectiveness:                           08/15/2001
Appraisal:             04/10/2000    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/17/2001    Mid-term Review:      09/01/2006
                                     Closing:              06/30/2008         06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome             Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                Ratings

Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                  Moderately
                                                                         Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately SatisfactoryOverall Borrower
Performance:                                   Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                    Highly Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                                20
Forestry                                                       97                  70
General education sector                                        2                  10
Other social services                                           1


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Biodiversity                                                  Primary            Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                       Primary            Primary
Export development and competitiveness                       Secondary      Not Applicable
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary           Primary
Rural non-farm income generation                             Secondary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                                                Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Michael Baxter                   Darius Mans
Sector Manager:           Marjory-Anne Bromhead            Roger C. Sullivan
Project Team Leader:      Cary Anne Cadman                 Nathalie Weier Johnson
ICR Team Leader:          Cary Anne Cadman
ICR Primary Author:       Cary Anne Cadman




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
1. Maintain Mulanje Mountain ecosystem, including globally significant biodiversity and
vital ecological services.
  2. Increase awareness, understanding and appreciation of the value of the Mulanje
Mountain ecosystem at local and national levels.
  3. Improve sustainability of biological resource use and enhance the value of the
Mulanje Mountain ecosystem to local communities.
  4. Establish long-term income stream and institutional capacity to ensure continuation
of 1-3; Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust (MMCT) appreciated and respected by
stakeholders at local, national and international levels. Demonstrate the appropriateness
of Conservation Trust Fund as financing mechanism for biodiversity conservation.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
(As approved by original approving authority); (the system displays entries in Section 6)

  Not applicable. GEO was not revised during the life of the Project.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target  Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
                                               approval       Target       Completion or
                                              documents)      Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Invasive species eradicated.
Value                                      90% of all
(quantitative or 100% MMFR has             invasives                     66% of all invasive

Qualitative)     invasives                 eradicated.                   species eradicated

Date achieved 01/01/2002                   06/30/2008                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         See ICR for comments.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    MMCT established and functioning on income being generated by endowment
                 fund.
Value
(quantitative or no endowment              100% from                     0% from

Qualitative)                               endowment.                    endowment

Date achieved 01/01/2002                   06/30/2008                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         See ICR for comments.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Community awareness and appreciation of ecosystem improved and valued.
Value
(quantitative or 0% aware of servies and   80 %                          72%
Qualitative)     values of MMFR.




                                               iii

Date achieved 01/01/2002                   06/30/2008                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         See ICR for comments.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :    Proportion of MMFR resources under co-management
Value
(quantitative or 0%                        50 %                          25%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2003                   06/30/2008                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         See ICR for comments.
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target  Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value        Values (from                     Achieved at
                                               approval       Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)    Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :    M&E providing information for management and conservation planning
                                                                         Baseline completed,
                                                                         3rd data collection

Value                                      M&E providing                 campaign
(quantitative or No baseline or monitoringinput  on majority             completed.

Qualitative)                               of key species                Timeline record is
                                           management                    now becoming
                                                                         available. Two
                                                                         publications.
Date achieved 01/01/2002                   06/30/2008                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         See ICR for comments.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Attitudes towards the MMFR improved and conservation activities increased
                                           50 % of                       10% of
Value                                      communities                   communities
(quantitative or No conservation actions   engaged in                    engaged in
Qualitative)     by FD or communities      conservation                  conservation
                                           activities                    activities
Date achieved 01/01/2002                   06/30/2008                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %         See ICR for comments.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    VNRMCs and other relevant community structures operational. Co-management
                 pilot activities underway.
Value
(quantitative or No VNRMVs established     12 co-management              6 co-management

Qualitative)                               MoU functioning               MoU functioning




                                                iv

Date achieved 01/01/2002                06/30/2008                    06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       See ICR for comments.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                          Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived             GEO                      IP              Disbursements
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1     06/27/2001         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     12/20/2001         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.30
  3     05/14/2002         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.30
  4     12/20/2002         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.35
  5     05/30/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.40
  6     11/25/2003         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.61
  7     05/28/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.88
  8     11/26/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.06
  9     06/24/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  6.72
  10    12/20/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  6.75
  11    12/01/2006         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  6.75

  12    03/21/2007          Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory           6.75

  13    09/07/2007          Moderately             Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                6.75

  14    05/10/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately
                                                  Unsatisfactory                6.75



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                            v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives [or Global Environment Objectives] and
Design (this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative):

1.1     Context at Appraisal (brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for
Bank assistance):

Country Context
At appraisal, Malawi faced a number of formidable challenges to growth and poverty reduction.
It was one of the poorest countries in the world with an estimated 65% of the population living
below the poverty line. In 2000, it ranked fourth from the bottom according to the United
Nations Human Development Report.

Malawi also had one of the highest population densities in Africa, with an average of 105
inhabitants per square kilometer of arable land, and an average growth rate of 2.8% (1998
census). Most of the population (85%) lived in rural areas where subsistence farming was the
dominant livelihood activity. Indeed, in and around Mulanje Mountain, the population density
was the highest overall across the country and small-land holdings constituted some of the
smallest in the country.

The Phalombe and Mulanje districts supported over 800,000 people; half of whom lived in the
immediate areas surrounding Mulanje Mountain. The mountain was completely surrounded by
villages and small-scale cultivation on customary land and large commercial tea and coffee
estates. The Mulanje region was characterized by high poverty and chronic food insecurity.


The main livelihood base for poor households (typically 5.5 persons) was small-scale agriculture
(maize, sweet potato, cassava) on farms of, on average, 0.4 hectares. Within the matrilineal
society, most of the farms were managed by women and men worked on the neighboring tea
plantations. Tea estates were the main source of formal employment in the region (e.g., one
estate employed on average 5,000 workers).


The mountain's boundary communities depended on the forest for firewood (domestic use and
for sale) and collection of other non-timber forest products (medicine, grass for thatch, wild
fruit, mushrooms, honey, and fiber). Hunting was illegal, but was traditionally practiced. At
Project inception, it was established that the mountain resources used by local communities were
acquired on an unsustainable basis, generating significant adverse environmental impacts as
population growth accelerated.


Agricultural encroachment also presented a serious threat on the lower slopes of the mountain as
did fires set by hunters. The threat posed by these fires was particularly significant with respect
to the survival of Mulanje Cedar and the high plateau grassland ecosystem.


Against this backdrop, at Project inception, limited development had taken place around the
mountain restricting availability of alternative livelihoods in the area, thus further exacerbating
the pressure placed on the mountain's resources.




                                                 1

On a national scale, high transport costs resulting from Malawi's landlocked position and poor
infrastructure links through Mozambique acted as a tax on exports. And, the legacy from the
first 30 years of independence (1964-94) under one government was one of inequality and
inadequate attention to human resource development.

Recurring droughts and the rapid spread of Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired
Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) presented additional constraints to development.

Between 1995 and 1997, the economy grew at an annual average rate of more than 9% with
growth more broad-based than before presenting positive trends in policy changes. Although
slippages in macroeconomic management occurred in early 1998, the government took bold
action to ameliorate the situation.

Sector Context
By appraisal it was evident that Malawi's rapidly growing population was putting enormous
pressure on its limited and deteriorating natural resource base, notably land and forests. Fertilizer
use and irrigation capacity were low. Land distribution was unequal; and more than 40% of
smallholder households were cultivating on less than 0.5 hectares. Population pressure on land
available for smallholder use led to reduced soil fertility, stagnant or declining yields,
encroachment on estate and public land, and overuse of Lake Malawi's coastal resources.
Chronic environmental degradation disproportionately affected the rural poor, whose
consumption and production were largely dependent on the natural resource base.

At the time, Malawi had a total area of 26,428 km2 forest cover (28% of total land area)
consisting of 88 forest reserves, national parks, wildlife reserves and customary land forests.
Due to insecure land tenure and pervasive poverty, many rural households viewed forests as their
only option for obtaining income through the sale of forest resources.

One of the forest reserves was (and is) located on Mulanje Mountain situated in the south-eastern
corner of Malawi. Mulanje is the highest mountain in south-central Africa at 3001m above sea
level.

Due to its species richness and high levels of endemism4, Mulanje Mountain was identified by
the World Wildlife Fund as one of 200 global eco-regions in the world for the conservation of
biodiversity and designated as an Afro-montane Regional Centre of Endemism. In 2000, the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) designated the
mountain as a Global Biosphere Reserve (GBR) for its important ecological and socio-economic
value.



4
  Mulanje Mountain is home to six different plant communities. The vegetation ranges from miombo woodlands at its base to fire induced
grasslands on the plateau as well as Afro-montane evergreen forests and Widdringtonia forests on the plateaus. Vegetation varies with altitude,
relief and aspect; rock form, soil and incidences of fire. The Afro-montane ecosystem includes a large number of endemic species, many of
which are endangered or threatened with extinction. Known figures include: 1,330 species of plants of which more than 70 are strict endemic
species; 180 bird species (1 endemic subspecies, 6 near endemic species); 250 butterfly species (8 endemic, 3 near endemic); 32 amphibian
species (3 endemic, 3 near endemic); and 55 species of reptiles (2 endemic chameleons, 2 endemic geckos, 1 skink, 1 lizard) and the probability
of one or two endemic bat species. It is well documented that Mulanje Mountain is one of Africa's important sites for threatened bird species
forming part of the Tanganyika-Nyasa Mountain Group Endemic Bird Area.




                                                                      2

In addition, the mountain served as a catchment to nine major perennial river systems, providing
surrounding communities with clean water throughout the year. Village communities also
derived various forms of livelihood from the mountain resources, including: Mulanje Cedar
timber, fuel wood and non-timber forest products such as honey, mushrooms and medicinal
plants.

Rationale for Bank Assistance
The Government of Malawi (GoM) requested World Bank support for the Global Environment
Facility (GEF) Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Conservation Project (MMBCP) in view of the
alarming rate of deforestation and loss of biodiversity in the Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve.

At the time, the Forest Department held primary responsibility for managing the country's forest
reserves including Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve, all of which were established to ensure
adequate watershed protection and plantation timber production. However, the FD lacked
sufficient financial and human resources to properly manage its forest reserves, in particular
Mulanje Mountain Forest Reserve which exhibited rich biodiversity and was home to a
significant number of endemic species.

The Forest Department recognized that its mandate and expertise was principally in the area of
forest management and less in biodiversity conservation. Establishing a formal partnership with
the newly created NGO, Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust, would address this gap in one of
its prime forest reserves.

The GEF recognized that long-term financing would be essential to ensure sustainable
conservation of the mountain's ecosystem and unique biodiversity and provided a $6.75 million
grant of which $5.5 million capitalized an endowment.

The Project's activities to improve environmental management and community welfare were
consistent with the Bank's central focus of poverty reduction outlined in the Malawi Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), 1998 - 2000. One of the objectives and main themes of the CAS was
Fostering Environmental Sustainability. The CAS recognized that Malawi suffered from loss of
its natural capital, severe deforestation and soil erosion, increased vulnerability to drought and
lower growth due to environmental health hazards. The CAS recognized that sustainable
management of natural resources was essential for poverty reduction.

The approach adopted in the Project design was to pilot a new institutional and financial
structure for forest management and biodiversity conservation for high biodiversity status areas
with the view to replicating the model, if successful, to other high biodiversity status areas in
Malawi and elsewhere.

The Project became effective in August 2001. Final disbursement into the endowment occurred
in March 2004. The Project closing date was June 30, 2008.




                                                 3

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) [or Global Environmental Objectives
(GEO)] and Key Indicators [as approved]:

The Project's four original Global Environmental Objectives and ten Key Indicators as approved
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were as follows:

    1. Maintain the Mulanje Mountain ecosystem, including globally significant
       biodiversity and vital ecological services.
       Key indicators:
           ·   Biodiversity conservation aspects of MMFR Management Plan under
               implementation
           ·   Ecosystem of MMFR maintained in good condition
           ·   Decrease in FD/Community conflict relating to Reserve access and use

    2. Increase awareness, understanding and appreciation of the value of the Mulanje
       Mountain ecosystem at local and national levels.
       Key indicators:
           ·   Community knowledge and appreciation increased with respect to target
               messages
           ·   Allocation of funds for Reserve management

    3. Improve sustainability of biological resource use and enhance the value of the
       Mulanje Mountain ecosystem to local communities.
       Key indicator:
           ·   Proportion of MMFR resources under co-management

    4. Establish the long-term income stream and institutional capacity to ensure
       continuation of 1-3;Embedded in this GEO is the expectation that the Non-
       Governmental Organization, Mulanje Mountain Conservation Trust, is appreciated
       and respected by stakeholders at local, national and international levels and that
       the Project demonstrates the appropriateness of the Conservation Trust Fund as a
       financing mechanism for biodiversity conservation.
       Key indicators:
           ·   Effective biodiversity conservation program maintained over time in the face of
               changing circumstances
           ·   Local stakeholders aware of and positive toward MMCT and its objectives
           ·   Contribution to the MMCT
           ·   MMCT cited as positive example and model by GEF and other conservation
               supporters

1.3    Revised PDO [GEO] (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification:

Although the GEO and key indicators were not formally revised and remain valid at ICR, during
Project implementation, the Bank, Borrower and Implementing Agency recognized that the
original set of Project indicators were qualitative in nature and, thus, difficult to measure. As


                                                 4

such, the original set of GEO, intermediate outcome, outcome and output indicators were refined
during Project implementation into quantitative proxy indicators.

To improve overall monitoring and evaluation of the Project, MMCT prepared a refined Results
Framework in mid-2006 (at MTR) reflecting the new set of quantitative indicators that served as
proxies for the original set of key indicators.

The proxy indicators did not replace nor depart from the initial intent or focus of the original set
of key indicators; rather they facilitated accurate measurement of what had previously been
highly descriptive key indicators. Between 2006 and Project closing, the proxy indicators were
systematically measured by MMCT. The Bank used the proxy indicators in its ISRs and the
MTR.

For the ICR, the original set of key indicators and their proxies were used to assess achievement
of the Projects' Global Environmental Objectives at closing. Annex 2 provides a full treatment of
the Project's outcome and output indicators, including proxies.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries (original and revised; briefly describe the "the primary target group"
identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO[GEO], as well as any other individuals and
organizations expected to benefit from the Project):

The Project did not have a primary target group of beneficiaries per se; rather it was designed to
generate local, national and global benefits for a number of beneficiaries, including:

·   Local communities adjacent to MMFR benefited from the Project through direct
    employment (beekeepers, small-holder crop and horticulture producers) and through
    increased community participation in the conservation and management of the natural
    resources on the mountain. By improving the ability of local communities to earn income
    from sustainable harvesting of natural resources, the Project contributed toward poverty
    alleviation.

·   The Citizens of Malawi benefited from the conservation of regionally and locally endemic
    species and through preservation of the unique Mulanje ecosystem.

·   Maintenance of water quality of major rivers from Mulanje headwaters flowing into
    Mozambique provided a significant benefit to the Citizens of Mozambique.

·   National, regional and international scientists, tourists and private citizens benefited
    from the conservation of endemic species on the mountain. Increased tourism in the Reserve
    contributed to increased local income in and around MMFR. Increased scientific research on
    the mountain contributed to important scientific findings.




                                                 5

1.5    Original Components (as approved):

The Project was organized in five components (original amounts allocated):

Component 1: Trust Administration (US$ 0.58 million): The Trust Administration Unit
(TAU) was established to be responsible for (i) developing the content for each of the three
components: Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring; Environmental Education;
and Forest Co-management and Livelihoods; (ii) working in collaboration with the FD and
suitable NGOs to implement the three programs in (i) above; (iii) submitting annual work plans
and budgets for approval; (iv) disbursing approved funds and ensuring that proper disbursement,
procurement and supervision procedures were followed; (v) maintaining financial records and
accounting and reporting; and (vi) ensuring ongoing monitoring and evaluation of all work
receiving MMCT funding.

Component 2: Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring (US$ 0.94 million):
This component was designed to support activities to identify, protect, manage, and monitor the
status of biodiversity and ecosystem health in the Reserve, and to reduce the impacts of human
pressure on the ecosystem and its biological resources.

Component 3: Environmental Education (US$ 0.14 million): An environmental education
program was developed under this component targeting local communities and FD officers
working on Mulanje Mountain.

Component 4: Forest Co-management and Sustainable Livelihoods (US$ 0.86 million): The
purpose of this component was to increase the share of the benefits from the Reserve going to
local communities on a sustainable basis.

Component 5: Conservation Trust Fund (US$ 5.5 million): This component was designed to
provide sustainable in-country funding for biodiversity conservation of the Mulanje Mountain
and surrounding area, in the context of ecologically sustainable development. The MMCT Fund
was established as the financing mechanism for the aforementioned Project components.

1.6    Revised Components:

Not applicable. Project components were not revised.

1.7    Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations):

The Project experienced significant changes with respect to implementation schedule and
funding allocations.

Implementation Schedule
The Project's original implementation schedule was affected by the extended delay in Project
implementation post-effectiveness. It took one year and one month for Project implementation to
begin after effectiveness due to delays in the establishment of the Special Account.



                                                  6

The Project was initially designed as a seven year engagement; however, due to the delay in the
implementation start date, the Project's life was curtailed by one year.

At ICR, it became apparent that the GoM and MMCT understood that the original Project
closing date would be adjusted according to the actual implementation start date in order to allow
MMCT and the FD to achieve the original targets for each GEO and intermediate outcome
indicator as well as the PAD key indicators.

Given that the Project was designed to continue in perpetuity, the question on length of Project
life post-effectiveness should be framed in the sense of the length of Bank involvement and
direct implementation support, not disbursement. As such, achievement of the various indicators
may not have been possible during the life of the Project, but this was due to a number of factors
unrelated to the Project's original closing date and Bank involvement. It is expected that if the
persistent institutional and financial challenges faced by the Project are overcome, then the
original targets set for most indicators may be achieved in the long-term.

Funding Allocations
Funding allocations at appraisal differed from those allocations that actually materialized during
implementation.

Government of Malawi: financial (US$1.27 million) and human resources commitments for the
Project never materialized. This had a significant impact on Project implementation, in
particular, MMCT's ability to deliver on agreed outputs, throughout the life of the Project.
Throughout Project implementation, FD district staff (both districts combined) received less than
US$10,000 in financial resources for management of MMFR.

The U.K. Department for International Development (DFID): At appraisal, DFID provided
US$800,000 to support development of the management plan for MMFR along with other
Project preparation activities, including consultancy support to delineate the institutional
arrangements and analyses of the social data. This support was directly linked to the
development of the Project proposal.

At the same time, DFID was also implementing a five year, US$25 million program to the Forest
Sector in Malawi. DFID had committed to support the Project directly by providing US$500,000
for the forest co-management and livelihoods component. This aid was to help consolidate the
poverty alleviation elements of the Reserve management plan and complement support provided
via the Forest Sector program.

At ICR, these commitments had not materialized. DFID did not renew support for the FD due to
Government lack of commitment to implement its policy with respect to community
management of forests.

DFID's decision not to co-finance the Project in addition to the Forest Department's failure to
allocate funds to MMFR management adversely affected Project implementation.




                                                 7

To compensate for these significant gaps in funding, MMCT reallocated Project funding towards
management activities of the Forest Reserve (salaries for MMFR field labor), thus reducing
funds earmarked for MMCT administrative costs by up to 20% annually. These early shortfalls
in Project co-financing impacted the amount of time and capacity that the TAU staff had
available for activity planning and delivery throughout Project implementation.

On a positive note, in the final year of Project implementation, the Royal Norwegian Embassy
provided significant resources (US$5 million) to co-finance the Project through to 2012 to enable
the endowment capital to grow thereby enhancing its long-term conservation financing potential
post-closure.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of earlier
operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigation identified, and adequacy of
participatory processes, as applicable):

Despite the Highly Satisfactory Quality at Entry (QEA) rating received in June 2001, there were
a number of factors during Project preparation and in Project design that adversely affected
Project implementation and the expected outcomes. The under-rating of some of the risks
identified at appraisal also affected Project implementation and hindered achievement of the
expected outcomes.

Project Preparation
Length of Project Preparation: Project preparation was extensive and involved a broad-based
participatory consultative process. Project design was based on solid analytical work carried out
over several years by a number of partners (DFID, National Herbarium and Botanical Gardens of
Malawi). Indeed, the Quality at Entry assessment noted that although Project preparation was
costly in time and budget, the panel felt that this was preferable to hurrying a Project which
needed strong local ownership and was closely linked with a parallel forest sector investment by
DFID; the latter of which closed in the early stages of Project implementation. Despite the
lengthy consultative preparatory process, throughout the life of the Project, several
misconceptions persisted, including the view held by local communities that the Government of
Malawi had sold Mulanje Mountain to MMCT.

Design Constraints
Although Project design incorporated important lessons from a number of operations, all of
which were extensively examined during Project preparation, including a site visit to the GEF-
sponsored Uganda Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust Project, at
ICR, the Project exhibited a number of design constraints. Specifically:

Capitalization of the Endowment Fund
The Quality at Entry report noted under the section on Risk Assessment and Management that
"most Project risks have been well appraised and candidly reported, but the panel suspects that
the risk of disappointing trust fund performance may be somewhat greater than had been thought
by the preparation team. More generally, the risk is of either a revenue shortfall or that MMCT's



                                                 8

actual expenses may be greater than projected. In either case, MMCT's range of activities would
be severely curtailed."

Indeed, this was the case with the trust fund underperforming in years 1 and 2 and showing
increased vulnerability during the 2007-08 global financial crisis. These factors had a significant
impact on MMCT's ability to deliver on a range of activities as well as their success in
establishing the Conservation Trust Fund as a viable long-term financing mechanism for
conservation.

The initial investment attracted steady returns for the first two years, but with quarterly draw-
downs for Project implementation, the endowment income was insufficient to cover the TAU's
administrative and program costs. As a result, in year 1 following receipt of the endowment
fund, the annual funding available for TAU operations decreased by 50% from US$400,000 to
US$200,000. To address this gap, TAU staff focused their efforts on fundraising rather than on
delivery of the Project's core activities.

This design failure was identified in the Quality at Entry assessment report, but was not
adequately mitigated prior to and directly after endowment funds were released. The Bank was
aware that the endowment would not generate sufficient resources to finance the Project's
running costs and from the outset it was clear that the design of the endowment required that
aggressive fundraising efforts run parallel release of funds for establishment of the endowment.

At the time that the endowment was established, MMCT expected an average annual return of
6.5% which was considered sufficient to cover all costs of the TAU as well as delivery of Project
activities. However, MMCT was not aware that vigorous fundraising was a necessary element to
achieve this level of income. MMCT grasped this need in the latter part of Project
implementation and has since carried out this role extraordinarily well, securing more than three
times the funds allocated through the trust.

The original design of the endowment also did not ensure adequate mitigation of the fund's
vulnerability to risks associated with the 2007-08 global financial crisis. A risk that continues to
threaten          the          health        of         the          fund           at        ICR.

Biodiversity Challenges of socio-economic origin were not emphasized sufficiently in Project
design. In particular, the need to adopt a sustainable livelihoods approach to ensure that the
Project achieved its objectives was not given sufficient weight at appraisal.                During
implementation, as this gap became clear, MMCT shifted their focus to address this challenge so
as      to      achieve      the       expected     outcomes        under       Component         2.

Invasive Species represent a threat to endemic species. Project design and preparation identified
key invasive species to be eradicated during Project implementation. Indeed, one of the Project
indicators tracked eradication of one of the identified invasive species extant on the mountain.
However, the Project failed to identify brackenfern (Pteridium aquilinium) as a major wild-
flower biodiversity conservation challenge at appraisal. This species is a serious threat to the
endemic biodiversity on Mulanje Mountain. It also poses a problem in Nyika which may impact
the Nyika GEF Project currently under preparation. The challenge faced by FD and MMCT is



                                                 9

the difficulty associated with eradication of this particular species; a challenge that persists at
ICR.

The Project's co-management and sustainable livelihoods component was originally allocated
US$860,000 (11% of total expected Project funding or 2% of GEF funding). In actuality, due to
lack of co-financing, the component received only US$64,115.86 by Project closing. Given the
significance of these interventions to the overall success of the Project's Global Environmental
Objectives, it would have been prudent to have allocated additional resources to this component
at Project design. Project design should have placed more weight on the significance and
importance of poverty alleviation efforts to ensure the sustainable use of MMFR resources. The
critical importance of the interventions under this Component will need to be prioritized in the
post-closure operation if the Project is to be successful in maintaining the Mulanje Mountain
ecosystem and globally significant biodiversity in the long-term.

Project Risks
Although Project risks were correctly identified at design, the significance of two, in particular,
was underestimated. The two Project risks that rose to significance during implementation were:

A. Lack of Forest Department capacity or commitment to effectively manage the MMFR
and maintain its biodiversity and ecological values, or to collaborate with MMCT in these
objectives. This risk rose to significance from the outset to become the principal challenge to
Project implementation.

The Risk Mitigation Measures proposed in the PAD for this risk were "Support for building FD
capacity and strengthening policy under this project and others, includes a major sector program
which emphasizes sustainable resource management and co-management aspects; FD has
participated actively in the design of MMCT and project preparation and expressed strong
commitment to it; international support for MMCT will increase local and national appreciation
of           the            significance          of           Mulanje's            biodiversity."

Despite these measures, some of which did not materialize (e.g., closure of the US$25 million
forest sector program), the FD failed to allocate sufficient human capacity and financial
resources for management of the MMFR during Project implementation and failed to collaborate
with       MMCT           to       meet       the       objectives      of       the      Project.

To understand why the FD failed to commit to the Project or collaborate with Project partners, it
is important to note the institutional context regarding management of MMFR. Management of
the Reserve has not changed since appraisal. The Forest Department is mandated through the
Forestry Act (1997) to manage all forest reserves in Malawi including the allocation of extraction
permits.

At appraisal, it was anticipated that measures would be taken to allow local communities to enter
into co-management arrangements that would enable them to benefit from sustainable use of
Reserve resources, as provided for in the Act. Furthermore, the FD was expected to establish a
transparent system of issuing permits and to monitor extraction of resources such as Mulanje
Cedar timber.



                                                10

During Project implementation, there were many challenges that affected these expectations. For
example, delayed approval by the FD of the co-management agreements frustrated progress of
the co-management and sustainable livelihoods component.

The Cedar Management Plan was also delayed resulting in the arbitrary opening and closing of
Cedar harvesting. At ICR, it was confirmed that although the Cedar season had not been
formally reopened, in early 2008, the FD had issued clearance for extraction of dead Mulanje
Cedar for production of artisanal fisher canoes as part of a Lake Malawi fisheries project.
Confirmation was received at ICR that only 22 to 30 of the expected 350 Mulanje Cedar canoes
(70 boats per year for 5 years) had been delivered as part of the Lake Malawi Project's
deliverables. And, although harvesting was to be for a finite time period, as late as January 2009,
harvesting had not stopped and may not have been limited to dead Cedar.

Such issues led to increased conflict between MMCT and FD. Two additional constraints further
complicating FD's commitment to the Project were:

     ·     The apparent differences regarding the use of Project proceeds from the endowment.
           Even though the Grant Agreement specified that the recipient will make available the
           proceeds of the endowment to MMCT, it was clear that the confusion surrounding the use
           of the proceeds was the cause of major disagreement between MMCT and FD throughout
           Project implementation.

     ·     The actual and perceived disparity in staff salaries between district-level FD staff (e.g.
           District Forestry Officer) and MMCT employees also aggravated the growing tension
           among              Project            partners,            particularly           at         the          local             level.

           On average, MMCT support and technical staff earned between three to ten times that of
           FD staff at the district level5.                     However, the salaries and benefits earned by FD
           headquarter staff was actually higher than the salaries earned by MMCT staff in similar
           positions. The skills set and qualifications of MMCT staff were significantly superior to
           that of the district level FD staff implying that the disparity in salaries was more of a
           perception issue at the district level rather than an actual disparity in salaries based on
           skills                        set                        and                     tertiary                          education.

           For example, a senior technical officer at MMCT and a technical FD headquarters staff
           such as a Deputy Director earned on average (non-salary benefits excluded) a monthly
           salary of Malawi Kwacha (MK) 200 ­ 250,000. However, a District Forest Officer
           received a monthly salary equivalent to MK 20 ­ 30,000. Although real, the difference in
           salaries is a perception issue as there are no valid comparators at the district level in terms
           of qualifications and skills set between FD and MMCT staff. Regardless, this perception
           led to considerable friction at the district level and further exacerbated the growing
           tension between MMCT and the FD Director.


5
 FD Deputy Director (Malawi Kwacha 200 ­ 250,000/month) which is the same salary as an MMCT senior technical program officer
(excluding FD staff benefits). FD District Forest Officer earns Malawi Kwachas 20 ­ 30,000/month (lacks degree and specialized skill set). FD
District Typist earns Malawi Kwacha 5 ­ 10,000/month whereas MMCT support staff earn Malawi Kwacha 15 ­ 20,000.



                                                                      11

Although these challenges were identified by Project partners early in Project implementation,
there was limited capacity within FD to address them. In addition, the FD Deputy Director who
committed 40% of his time to MMFR unfortunately passed away during implementation.
Although these challenges were brought to the attention of the Ministry during Bank supervision
missions, the numerous changes to the institutional structure of the host ministry delayed
progress. Further aggravating the situation, budget resources agreed to within the original
Project contracts never materialized. This resulted from FD receiving lower than expected annual
budgets            throughout          the           life          of          the         Project.

FD's lack of commitment to the Project was also one of the reasons DFID ended support for this
Project. The additional gaps and delays only served to further degrade the already tense working
relationship between FD and MMCT.

This conflict was evident from the outset, from Project preparation throughout implementation
and up to the final year of implementation when the current FD Director came on board. At the
time of entry of the new Director in 2007, the working relationship among Project stakeholders
improved dramatically; which bodes well for the post-closure operation.

B. MMCT's endowment will not be adequate to generate an income stream sufficient to
support         critical        conservation         and         co-management           activities.
The Risk Mitigation Measures proposed in the PAD for this were "DFID Forest Sector support
program will provide substantial co-financing for implementation of co-management/sustainable
livelihoods aspects of MMCT program: Phase I activities and objectives will include active
fundraising, demonstrating effectiveness of MMCT in order to attract support; administrative and
program costs are kept as low as possible to match realistic expectations of income stream from
the                                    anticipated                                    endowment."

At appraisal, this risk was not rated sufficiently high nor was it appropriately described. During
Project implementation, it became clear that very few donors can or will finance endowment
funds. Some, such as Norway, opted for the next best option and began financing MMCT's full
administrative and program costs in the final year of Project implementation thus affording the
endowment time to grow without further draw downs. In effect, this crucial five-year (2007-
2012) relationship has afforded MMCT US$5 million in additional funding; indirectly increasing
endowment capitalization in the post-closure period. In addition, the TAU also raised
considerable funds (US$10 million) to finance parallel activities on MMFR and surrounding
areas          related         to          the         original         Project         objectives.

At ICR, MMCT's fundraising success has been exceptional for Project activities, but not for
direct capitalization of the endowment fund. MMCT's fundraising efforts have essentially tripled
the amount used to establish the endowment fund (US$15 million) to finance parallel activities
within        the        scope       of        the        original      Project        components.

The Quality at Entry report correctly identified this risk and advised the Project team and the
Borrower accordingly. At ICR, MMCT continues to fundraise to ensure that the investment
income of the trust will sustain Project activities over the long-term. However, this risk remains



                                                 12

significant as the endowment has decreased as a result of the 2007-08 global financial crisis. At
ICR, it is unknown whether the endowment will be able to grow sufficiently by 2012 to generate
a sustainable income stream sufficient to support critical conservation and co-management
activities on the Mountain.

2.2     Implementation (including any Project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project
at Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable):

A number of factors affected Project implementation and achievement of the Project's Global
Environmental Objectives, including: institutional arrangements, implementation performance
and procurement.

Institutional Arrangements
At Mid-Term Review, it became clear that the institutional arrangements for management of the
MMFR were faulty and unlikely to improve. The FD did not have the capacity or the resources
to properly manage the Reserve. To address the situation, Project partners agreed to five critical
changes in Project approach at MTR.

It was expected that implementation of the recommended changes would begin with the signing
of a new MoU between the Ministry of Mines, Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of
Finance and MMCT. This MoU (or Bridging Cooperation Agreement) was signed in October
2007 and would remain in effect until such time as the Public Private Partnership (PPP)
Agreement was signed.

The PPP agreement would, in effect, permit MMCT to formally manage the MMFR with support
from FD staff seconded to MMCT. It was agreed by all Project partners that the PPP approach
would function to improve day-to-day management of the Reserve, affording sufficient capacity
and resources through MMCT, while maintaining management oversight by government through
department staff assignments to MMCT. At ICR, the PPP remains unsigned.

The five changes agreed by all Project partners at the Mid-Term Review were:

Reserve management system. The MMFR will be administered as a single unit, with an
institutional arrangement that empowers a single local management entity. That entity must be
held accountable and must be given the financial and human resources required by its mission. At
ICR, this action has not been adopted. Currently, MMFR is managed as per FD policy, there is
an interim Director for the MMFR, and a senior director will be recruited in the future to
manage MMFR.

FD/MMCT Partnership. The MMFR will operate under a Public Private Partnership whereby
MMCT will become, by delegation, manager of the MMFR; FD will second staff to MMCT with
skills and numbers commensurate with the task. The PPP will be sealed by an MoU or
Partnership Agreement. Contrary to the MTR agreement, this is not the case today at ICR. At
ICR, the Bridging Cooperation Agreement signed in October 2007 remains intact and in force.
If and when the PPP is signed, however, management of MMFR will not be delegated to MMCT;
rather the FD will continue to manage the MMFR once the PPP is signed. This change presents
a significant deviation in the nature of the agreement related to the PPP as discussed and agreed




                                                 13

at MTR.    Going forward, the FD must clarify its understanding of the relative roles and
responsibilities of the key stakeholders formally involved in the PPP for MMFR.

Financing of the PPP. Tourism, plantation logging and non-timber forest product revenues would
be collected by MMCT and deposited in a Trust Fund to be established under Part VI of the
Public Finance Management Act as agreed with Treasury and the Accountant-General's
Department. A percentage would fund the Mulanje and Phalombe District Council for
community forest support. At ICR this action has not been adopted as the PPP has not been
signed.

Co-management of MMFR. FD would speed up approval of the submitted co-management
agreements because they are the core basis of the Project to which Government and the WB
subscribed. Furthermore, MMCT will scale-up establishment of the co-management
arrangements in order to ensure equity in sustainable access to resources around the Reserve. At
ICR, 6 of the original 12 expected co-management agreements have been signed.

Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation. MMCT would prepare new planning, M&E, reporting and
procurement guidelines to be adopted by its Board in a revised Trust Administration Manual
(TAM) by June 2007. At ICR, MMCT prepared new planning, M&E reporting and a revised
TAM based on the original operating structure given that the PPP was not signed. In addition,
MMCT developed a new five year management plan, strategic plan, budgeted work plan, as well
as a new performance indicator matrix for post-closure operations. At ICR, drafts of these
documents were reviewed. The Bank and Norway provided detailed feedback to MMCT on how
they might improve each document in subsequent revisions.

Unfortunately, at ICR, actions agreed at MTR were not adopted as detailed above. As such, the
Project Risk to Development Outcome remains significant for the post-closure operation. The
ICR Risk to Development Outcome rating is also related to the two main risks identified at
appraisal that remain critical issues affecting post-closure implementation of the original
Project activities as stated in section 2.1 above.

An additional institutional arrangement issue that needs to be considered in light of the
aforementioned challenges is the establishment of the Mulanje Mountain Workers Association.
MMCT fostered establishment of this Association to account for the gap in FD human resources
assigned to work on the mountain. This Association employs members of the local communities
to carry out the daily maintenance work on the mountain required to manage MMFR.

This Association, in essence, duplicates the role of the FD to manage the day-to-day
responsibilities related to management of the MMFR. Clarity with respect to the roles and
responsibilities of local FD staff and the Worker's Association is required to avoid igniting any
conflicts between the FD, the Worker's Association and MMCT in the future.

At ICR, the FD was carrying out a functional review. It is expected that this review will
determine how many local FD staff are and will remain working on the mountain and with
surrounding communities and how these staff might interact with laborers hired through the
Worker's Association. (Current records indicate that some 700 FD staff are assigned to work in
the MMFR. It remains unclear what these staff actually do with respect to managing the
MMFR.)



                                                 14

Implementation Performance
Implementation success is a consequence of implementation partners' performance. At ICR,
Project partner implementation performance was as follows:

World Bank. Some of the internal Project management challenges faced by MMCT from MTR
to closing may have been mitigated had the Bank provided additional support to MMCT staff
who lacked adequate knowledge and experience with respect to Bank financial management and
procurement procedures. Although the Bank provided relevant training and ongoing support in
both areas, MMCT noted that additional direct support from the Bank may have helped improve
Borrower and Implementing Agency understanding of and compliance with Bank policies.

Forest Department. The recent improvement in the relationship between MMCT and FD
complemented by the FD's renewed efforts to appoint senior staff to manage MMFR as well as
the renewed commitment to earmark resources for management of MMFR are positive signs for
the post-closure operation. What is now needed is resolution on the Public Private Partnership
issue.

GoM. The GoM financial commitment to the Project never materialized. And, although the
relationship between MMCT and FD has started to improve, the vast majority of issues flagged
during the last set of supervision missions have still not been adequately addressed, indeed, the
key actions agreed by all at MTR on Project institutional arrangements have not been adopted to
date, 2 years after the MTR.

MMCT. Management performance on procurement issues, in particular, has not improved.
Going forward, financial management and procurement aspects of MMCT require particular
attention so that the misunderstandings (as detailed in the ISRs and MTR) encountered during
Project       implementation         are       avoided        in       post-closure       operations.

On a positive note, MMCT's governance structure and institutional bodies functioned extremely
well throughout Project implementation, significantly aiding overall Project implementation. At
ICR, MMCT structures were fully functional showing great resilience to the many
responsibilities taken on by the TAU throughout Project implementation. The original cohort of
TAU staff recruited in 2002 remain employed at TAU today, with the exception of an
Administrative Secretary whose position has been replaced three times.

Exhibiting close to 100% staff retention during the life of the Project is rare and exemplary and
MMCT is to be commended for adopting successful human resource policies such that it has
retained the vast majority of its staff. This fact also bodes well for the post-closure operations as
TAU staff retain the institutional history of the Project since inception ­ a key factor to guarantee
long-term success. Note, the existence of the endowment fund was also a strong factor in the
high                          staff                          retention                          rate.

MMCT's Board was also stable. The Board met 44 times, 34 times for regular meetings and a
further 10 on an extraordinary basis to review key instruments and to interact with the
endowment                                         asset                                     manager.



                                                  15

The Board established a Finance and Administration Sub-Committee that, although inadequately
constituted with limited membership, met nine times to assist in the annual budgeting process,
quarterly expenditure and work-planning process, to review administrative issues and the
endowment's performance as well as to analyze the audit. A Research Sub-Committee was also
established to guide and coordinate an agenda of research activities.

Such stability of the Board bodes well for the post-closure operation.

Procurement
In early 2008, the Bank carried out a procurement review of the Project. The review noted that
MMCT had neither complied with the provisions of the legal agreements nor had it followed the
recommendations of previous Bank procurement reviews.

The review also noted that MMCT was not operating with a procurement plan and the Trust
Administration Manual (TAM) did not include a section on procurement. This has significant
implications for proper management of the Trust. MMCT is an organization that currently
operates mainly on grants from other organizations. As such, the review strongly recommended
that it develop and abide by an unequivocal set of procurement procedures.

It was agreed that MMCT would update the Trust Administration Manual to include a section on
procurement           and           seek         approval            from          the          WB.

The draft TAM informally submitted to the Bank and Norway in September 2008 (at ICR)
confirmed that MMCT has developed its own procurement procedures. However, the Bank's
procurement team did not receive a formal version of the revised TAM prior to Project closing
nor at ICR. If and when the TAM is approved by the Board, MMCT will be able to operate
according to its own procurement rules. This represents significant progress based on the
recommendations       made    during    the   final    set   of    Bank     supervision     missions.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:

Monitoring and Evaluation is the proper planning of expected outcomes, outputs, activities,
budget and procurement procedures as well as proper monitoring of Project implementation.
M&E should guide decision-making by management (TAU, MMCT Board, FD). At ICR, it was
clear that proper design of the Project's Monitoring and Evaluation framework was a dimension
overlooked by the Project preparation team.

As noted above and in Annex 2, the Results Framework prepared for the Project suffered in
terms of utility because the indicators were qualitative rather than quantitative in nature.

MMCT was designed to contract M&E work for the Project. However, throughout Project
implementation, funds were insufficient to finance this work. Considering capital costs, MMCT
had less than US$150,000 per year available to finance all Project activities, including M&E
reporting by third parties.




                                                16

As a result, MMCT paid District Forest Department staff to collate data for the M&E framework.
Unfortunately, FD staff lacked the capacity to collect and report on these data. Hence, MMCT
took over lead responsibility to develop a refined Results Framework with quantitative indicators
and for generating the data to track these proxy indicators.

Although MMCT produced Annual Work Plans and budgets, designed a refined quantitative
Results Framework and contracted Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) to design an ecological
monitoring system to collect annual data, these tools were not used to systematically inform
management. Prior to 2006 (MTR), the Project did not monitor results systematically.

Comprehensive treatment of the monitoring and evaluation design, implementation and utility of
the Project's original and refined Results Framework is provided in Annex 2.

2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as
applicable):

Safeguard Policies
At Appraisal, the Project was classified as a Category C Project. However, both the Quality at
Entry assessment and MTR highlighted the fact that the Project should have been classified as a
Category B Project due to nature of the investments. From MTR to closing, the Project category
was not changed and, as such, no safeguard tools were developed for the Project.

At ICR, it is clear that the Project emphasized activities that would generate positive
environmental and social impacts. It is also known that earlier generation operations, such as this
Project, which were mostly about establishing trust funds, were typically classified as Category
C projects. In hindsight, however, Project investments would likely have triggered Safeguard
Policies on natural habitats, forests, involuntary resettlement and environmental assessment.

Going forward, future operations of a similar nature should monitor the appropriateness of the
original Project classification during regular supervision missions to ensure that the Project
complies with Bank safeguard policies.

Fiduciary Compliance
Prior to closing, the Financial Management Rating for MMCT was moderately satisfactory.

MMCT made use of zero-based budgeting which worked well. The accounting was according to
International Accounting Standards (IAS). The Project accountant carried out most of the duties
associated with financial management making "segregation of duties" difficult. This challenge
was partially mitigated by the fact that MMCT employed a secretary with some accounting
background.

The Project's disbursement method was based on Statements of Expenditure (SOE) and
exhibited no serious issues. The Grant Agreement did not make submission of unaudited Interim
Financial Reports a requirement and as such the Project did not submit any.




                                                 17

MMCT did submit its external audit reports on time as per the Grant Agreement except the final
one for the year ended June 30, 2008 which was submitted in February 2009; one and half
months after it was due.

The 2007 and 2008 Financial Statements were qualified by auditors due to the fact that the
Project had not applied IAS 16 which governs the valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment.
This was not a serious issue considering that production of a Balance Sheet was optional in the
Agreement. There were no issues that would have affected the reliability of the financial
statements. Issues raised in management letters were resolved and clarifications given to the WB
were appropriate. The Special Account is expected to be cleared in March 2009.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-
completion operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance
arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation,
if applicable):

The MMCT was designed as a long-term mechanism to support improved MMFR management
and local community livelihoods. As such, it will continue to function post-closure based on the
successful delivery of a number of activities to date, its staff and growing portfolio as well as the
essential strength of its endowment.

The advantage of overhead costs being internally financed affords MMCT a leveraged position
to collaborate with other developmental partners, donors and local commercial organizations. At
ICR, it was clear that the endowment was instrumental in attracting the vast majority of parallel
conservation investments in and around Mulanje Mountain.

Through its 2008-2012 Strategic Plan, MMCT aims to consolidate and expand future work in
five areas. Such efforts seek to:

Raise the international and national status of the MMFR through:
    ·   Attainment of World Heritage Site accreditation;
    ·   Consolidation of the trans-boundary aspects of the GBR;
    ·   Developing the relationship with Lake Chilwa GBR;
    ·   Seeking official name change from Mulanje Mountain to Mount Mulanje;
    ·   Re-classification of MMFR to a more prominent forest sector profile.
    to profile the mountain appropriately for Project development potential and to boost local
    income generation to support local communities who work in the nascent tourism industry as
    well     as    to      address   the     main     biodiversity      conservation     challenges.


Enable endowment capital to grow to an ideal size of US$10m by:
    ·   Utilizing Project funds such as the five-year US$5m Norwegian support to reduce draw-
        downs,
    ·   Seeking additional capitalization from other donors,
    to have in place a reliable income stream that covers principal costs and reduces the
    bureaucratic          overhead         of         donor           Project        administration.


Develop an optimal conservation and development working alliance through:



                                                 18

    ·   Attracting complimentary conservation and research agency support;
    ·   Enabling further NGO and micro-credit agency involvement in socio-economic
        development around the mountain;
    ·   Encouraging commercial investment to bring added value to products with appropriate
        fair trade, organic, and other eco-labeling.
    to have locally available expert thinking and action in key aspects of biodiversity
    conservation,     natural   resource     management     and     socio-economic  development.


Adopt an ecosystem approach to ecological and biodiversity conservation by:
    ·   Enabling concerted agency action across a broader ecological area;
    ·   Seeking and recommending appropriate solutions to the variety of challenges affecting
        similar mountains across the region;
    ·   Determine     the    potential   to   establish  an     expert  research  centre locally.
     to achieve meaningful conservation results by seeking solutions against identified threats to
     the endemic biodiversity and unique ecology, beyond the issues faced only on one mountain.

Develop payment for environmental services opportunities:
    ·   Analyze basis for water, energy and tourism income;
    ·   Ensure government modality for MMFR funds retention in place;
    ·   Seek Water Catchment Management Area status;
    ·   Catalyze Mulanje tourism marketing and other commercial activities;
    ·   Develop carbon sequestration funding potential;
    ·   Redevelop the exotic plantation potential and commercial management.

Given that the appropriate policy framework may exist in the near term (pending Parliament
approval), revitalization of the PPP arrangement may be possible in the medium to long term:
    ·   As a priority seek meaningful response from government to develop a negotiated working
        solution to the proposed PPP for MMFR;
    ·   Further develop synergy with FD to achieve new local MMFR leadership, technical
        capacity, management systems and enforcement deployment.
to optimize the mandated roles and management capacities of government sector agencies,
complimented by innovate financing solutions and broader expertise available through new
partnerships.

At ICR, the transition arrangements outlined in MMCT's Annual Work Plan 2008-2009,
Management Plan 2004 ­ 2009 and Strategic Plan 2008-2012 confirm that appropriate provisions
exist to ensure that effective Project operation post-closure may be possible. Indeed, MMCT
institutional changes during implementation included recruitment of an M&E officer and
additional supervision capacity brought in from other projects and organizations. However,
further institutional changes have not been made because the PPP remains pending.

Unless the fundamental challenges experienced by the Project are addressed, in particular the
institutional issues related to relative roles and responsibilities of MMCT and FD, the operation
post-closure will continue to experience limited success in terms of making tangible progress
toward achieving the original Global Environmental Objectives.



                                                  19

Clarity is needed as to MMCT's role going forward. Is MMCT to hold a supporting role to FD
or is it to be delegated a comprehensive management role of MMFR by FD? Both have clear
implications on management of the Trust. As long as an appropriate arrangement is not
formalized, then limited success will be achieved in terms of sustainability of the Reserve. This
has been a pervasive issue since the mid-term review. Clear resolution is needed for the post-
closure operation to be successful. MMCT cannot strengthen its institutional structure without a
clear vision for the future in terms of its working relationship with the FD, specifically, the
formal arrangement as outlined in the PPP.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes
3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):

At ICR, the Project's objectives remain relevant to current country and global priorities and the
Bank's assistance strategy.

The overall objective of the Malawi Growth and Development Strategy (MGDS, 2006 -2011)
is to reduce poverty through sustained economic growth and infrastructure development. Theme
One: Sustainable Economic Growth, Sub-Theme 1: Maximizing the contribution to economic
growth through the sources of growth, emphasizes that high growth sectors will be positioned to
realize economic growth in the long term and increase employment in the medium term.

Tourism is listed as a key area for growth and employment under Sub-Theme 1. The MGDS
aims to position Malawi as a leading eco-tourism destination in Africa and to foster increased
domestic tourism. Efforts by MMCT and FD to foster domestic and international tourism on
Mulanje Mountain illustrate the relevance of the Project's original objectives to the GoM's
current development strategy.

In addition, the MGDS emphasizes the importance of conserving the natural resource base. The
strategy recognizes that sustainable use of natural resources contributes to many of the goals in
the MGDS.

In the Forest Sector, the strategy indicates that the country will ensure sustainable use and
management of forestry resources. Key strategies include: improving productivity and value
added by the industrial forestry sector; increasing reforestation efforts for key areas; improving
enforcement of regulations for forestry management; initiation of reforestation and
environmental rehabilitation programs in priority areas; and introducing incentives for private
sector participation.


On Environmental Protection, the strategy indicates that efforts for environmental protection will
focus on improving compliance with environment and natural resource management laws. Key
strategies include: improving enforcement of environmental policies, legislation and cooperation
in environment, natural resource management and development; raising awareness of issues of
protecting the environment; and incorporating environmental concerns in school curricula and
establishment of an environmental management information system.



                                                20

With respect to Wildlife, the overall goal is to conserve and manage protected areas and wildlife.
In the medium term, the sub-sector is expected to conserve, manage and develop wildlife
resources to effectively contribute to the sustainable development of biodiversity and the tourism
industry in Malawi.


Each of these priorities highlight the relevance of the Project to Malawi's current development
goals.


With respect to global priorities, climate change, food security, sustainable livelihoods,
conservation of endemic, endangered and threatened biodiversity and Carbon finance all remain
core issues on the global development agenda and are embedded as essential elements of the
Project's original objectives as well as the proposed post-closure operation.

The Bank's fourth Country Assistance Strategy (FY07-10) for Malawi supports the
Government's Growth and Development Strategy and links the MGDS Goals to four CAS
Outcomes. The current CAS emphasizes the critical importance of ensuring environmental
sustainability which is at the core of the Project's objectives and design.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives [or Global Environmental Objectives]
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs                            in                            Annex                          2):

Despite having had to tackle a number of significant institutional and financial challenges,
overall, the Project exhibited moderate success in achieving some of its Global Environment
Objectives. In particular, the Project was able to achieve partial success in specific areas, as
summarized below per GEO and as further detailed in Annex 2.

A. Maintain the Mulanje Mountain ecosystem, including globally significant biodiversity
   and                         vital                       ecological                    services.
   At ICR, development of an improved ecological and biodiversity knowledge base coupled
   with marginal, but insufficient wildfire prevention programs, partial invasive species
   clearance, partial encroachment reduction and a negligible decrease in illegal harvesting of
   Mulanje Cedar suggest that maintenance of the Mulanje Mountain ecosystem, including
   globally significant biodiversity and vital ecological services, has been achieved to a limited
   extent.

   That is, the Project was able to initiate work to begin addressing a number of threats to the
   ecosystem, but establishing viable systems to maintain the Mulanje Mountain ecosystem and
   biodiversity over the long-term will require a much more concerted effort by MMCT and the
   FD at both the national and district levels. Eradication of brackenfern, continued
   unsustainable harvesting of Mulanje Cedar, the absence of sufficient law enforcement to halt
   illegal logging and poaching and the potential for bauxite mining activities on the mountain
   threaten the integrity of the ecosystem and illustrate the enormous challenges to be addressed
   by MMCT and FD in the post-closure period.



                                                  21

B. Increase awareness, understanding and appreciation of the value of the Mulanje
   Mountain             ecosystem,               at        local            and          national             levels.
   At ICR, the last community attitude survey conducted was in 2006 at MTR. The rating
   assigned to the survey indicator was 80% at that time out of a possible 100%. Albeit
   outdated, the 2006 score can be considered as a fairly accurate for one of the two proxy
   indicators developed for the original key indicator due to the findings detailed in MMCT's
   Project Completion Report and the findings of the ICR stakeholder consultation session
   (summarized in Annex 6). In particular, growing stakeholder reliance on MMCT to deliver
   on a broad development agenda beyond biodiversity conservation in the Mulanje Mountain
   area     suggests     that     stakeholders       have     a     positive      attitude    toward       MMCT.

   Although circumstantial evidence6 suggests that the importance of Mulanje Mountain is
   known throughout Malawi and abroad, the extent to which the Project has been able to
   increase awareness, understanding and appreciation of the value of the Mulanje Mountain
   ecosystem has not been established nor has it been measured since 2006.

   As such, continued efforts are needed to increase awareness and appreciation of the
   mountain, particularly to decrease the incidence of wildfire and poaching. Ongoing
   investments are also needed to address the misconceptions about MMCT's role (e.g., that it
   bought the mountain from the FD) and the relative responsibilities of the FD and MMCT
   towards long-term management of the MMFR.

C. Improve sustainability of biological resource use and enhance the value of the Mulanje
   Mountain                   ecosystem                    to                 local                 communities.
   At ICR, 1,160 ha (of the 7000 ha target) of miombo forest were under co-management and 6
   of the 12 co-management agreements were signed. Albeit significantly lower than the
   expected target, the fact that these agreements were signed at all sets a powerful and positive
   precedent that other such co-management arrangements may be forthcoming in the medium
   to long-term. In addition, the fact that the number of VNRMC and other relevant community
   structures established and operational exceeded the end of Project target value of 75 (actual
   value achieved was 134) suggests that the value of the Mulanje mountain ecosystem to local
   communities was enhanced by the Project's interventions. Despite these gains, further efforts
   are needed to ensure the sustainability of the resource use and to increase the value of the
   ecosystem                             to                          local                           communities.

D. Establish long-term income stream and institutional capacity to ensure continuation of
   1-3; MMCT appreciated and respected by stakeholders at local, national and
   international levels. Demonstrate the appropriateness of Conservation Trust Fund as
   financing               mechanism                   for              biodiversity                conservation.
   At ICR, the endowment fund was not generating sufficient income to cover MMCT's
   administrative and operating costs. However, MMCT's ability to raise more than US$15
   million in financing for activities related to the Project objectives not only demonstrates
   MMCT's ability to leverage funds to ensure financial resources to achieve and sustain the


6Based on the growing local tourist industry at the mountain and visitor records to the mountain, in addition to the
growing body of Mulanje Mountain-based scientific publications by renowned national and international institutions



                                                       22

    Project's objectives, it also showcases international recognition and respect for MMCT as
    well as highlights the appropriateness, albeit indirectly, of a Conservation Trust Fund as a
    financing mechanism for biodiversity conservation. All are elements of the Project's original
    objectives.

    However, continued strategic and aggressive fund raising is required in the post-closure
    period since the endowment fund does not yet function as a stand alone financing
    mechanism. A key consideration when assessing the risk associated with the long-term
    achievement of this particular GEO is the volatility of global financial markets and the fact
    that, to date, donors are unable to place funds directly into the endowment fund; rather they
    are only able to finance parallel activities or the administrative costs of MMCT.


As noted earlier, informal refinements were made to the Project's indicators and Results
Framework. Complete treatment of actual values achieved (and their relative meanings) for each
of the Project's outcome and output indicators (both original and proxies) as well as a detailed
listing of the Project's outputs are presented in Annex 2.

3.3     Efficiency (Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate
norms, least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return):

One of the key objectives of the Project was to establish a long-term income stream and
institutional capacity to sustain biodiversity conservation activities on the Mulanje massif. Based
on an updated incremental cost analysis, the Project is considered somewhat efficient in terms of
achieving these objectives, particularly given the challenging institutional context within which it
operated.

The incremental cost analysis in the PAD identified the following domestic benefits to be
generated by the Project:

    ·   Capacity to administer Trust Fund that will finance long-term activities to conserve
        locally important biodiversity in Mulanje
    ·   More effective monitoring and protection of local use of the Reserve's biological
        resources
    ·   Increased national awareness of biodiversity conservation and participatory schemes for
        sustainable natural resource management in the region
    ·   Greater involvement of communities bordering the Reserve in sustainable resource use
        programs
    ·   Sustainable programs for local biodiversity conservation based on trust fund income

Overall, as shown in the incremental cost matrix in Annex 3, implementation of the Project
contributed to increased resources for most components. Total incremental funding is estimated
at US$8.54 million.

The Project was efficient in incrementally establishing a near term financing stream for
biodiversity conservation activities on the mountain. GEF support catalyzed the provision of
additional funding and technical assistance from a range of stakeholders. Although fund-raising


                                                  23

efforts have fallen short of levels required to increase the capital base of the Endowment Fund,
without GEF support, such incremental resources would not have been made available for
biodiversity conservation interventions on the mountain. As such, the Project can be considered
efficient in establishing a preliminary financial (albeit not institutional) basis for biodiversity
conservation on Mulanje Mountain.

At ICR, it was not possible to assess the net benefit of the Project using the conventional rate of
return because of the difficulty associated with objective valuation of the benefit and cost
streams from Project interventions.

However, as noted in other sections of the ICR, the Project has supported livelihood activities
among local communities. As presented in Annex 2, the positive impact generated by the Project
with respect to creating viable livelihood alternatives for local communities is a significant
benefit generated by the Project which should be emphasized as it tackles a core problem
associated with long-term biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of the natural resources
on the mountain.

According to the 2006 MTR, the beneficiary attitude study noted that the level of awareness of
MMFR and the need for its conservation had significantly improved since Project inception.
However, at ICR additional data were not available to assess the complete and direct impact of
the       Project's       interventions     in      terms       of      beneficiary      attitudes.

3.4      Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs
[GEO], and efficiency):

Rating: MS

The overall outcome rating at ICR is Moderately Satisfactory.

Although significant challenges remain to be tackled in the post-closure period, the Project did
achieve some positive outcomes associated with Project interventions.

The Project demonstrated progress in eradicating some of the invasive species on the mountain,
it illustrated innovative ways of allowing a conservation endowment fund to increase its capital
base and paved the way for future pro-active community involvement in the mountain's
conservation with the signing of 6 co-management agreements.

Many outcomes have not yet been achieved, but with the stamina and commitment to the
mountain exhibited by MMCT and the new FD Director, the Project closed on a positive,
forward looking note rather than one signaling a bleak future for the mountain.

3.5      Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously covered
or to amplify discussion above):

(a)      Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




                                                 24

Although data on poverty impacts and gender were not formally monitored during
implementation, the Project did generate positive impacts on the socio-economic status of local
communities, in particular women.

It is estimated that more than 60% of all livelihood initiatives financed by the Project directly
benefited women. Indeed, women remain the main stakeholders in all beekeeping, mushroom
cultivation and small-scale irrigation activities as well as fish farming supported by the Project.
Specific      details     on     these      impacts      are     provided     in     Annex      2.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development):

Not applicable.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

Positive Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
    ·   The Project acted as a catalyst to attract a significant number of expert agencies,
        universities, research organizations and NGOs to work on conservation related matters in
        and around Mulanje Mountain. The list below is a partial list of those entities that began
        work in and around Mulanje due to the presence of MMCT and the GEF Project:

        Ecological work        Earthwatch
                               Royal Botanical Gardens ­ Kew
                               Birdlife International
                               National Herbarium and Botanic Gardens of Malawi
                               Forestry Research Institute

        Climate Change         University of South Carolina
                               University of Oregon

        Livelihoods            United States Peace Corps
                               Concern Universal
                               Wildlife and Environmental Society of Malawi (WESM)
                               United States Embassy
                               Mulanje Peak Foods
                               Presbyterian Church

        Carbon Trade           Sustainable Forest Management
                               Carbon Capital and The New Forest Company
                               Carbon-Aided
                               Hestian International Development

        Energy                 University of Twente (MoU)
                               Practical Action (MoU)
                               GEF Small Grants Scheme



                                                 25

       At ICR, the cumulative impact of these interventions would not have occurred had it not
       been for the GEF Project and the endowment fund which afforded many entities the
       ability to establish working partnerships with MMCT. It is believed that these
       partnerships will help sustain achievement of the primary objectives of the Project by
       elevating the importance of Mulanje's unique biodiversity nationally and internationally,
       whilst simultaneously enhancing local economic development and providing a permanent
       income stream for local communities.

   ·   Establishment of a number of legally registered resource-based user associations
       (beekeepers, tourism). These were in addition to the expected outcome to organize
       communities for co-management agreements and to the VNRMC. These are listed in
       Annex 2 as well as in MMCT's Project Completion Report.

   ·   Comprehensive understanding of the northern Mozambique montane ecosystems. At
       ICR, it became evident that MMCT is considered an authority on the Mulanje ecosystem
       in Malawi as well as in Mozambique. During Project implementation, Mozambican
       authorities approached MMCT to share Project expertise and knowledge of the Mulanje
       montane ecosystem and biodiversity. They also requested MMCT's assistance to
       incorporate Project activities in Mozambique. The particular details of this evolving
       relationship are detailed in MMCT's Strategic Plan, 2008 ­ 2012.

Negative Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
   ·   The Forest Department's End of Project Report indicates that some members of the local
       community felt that the Forest Department had in effect "sold" the mountain to MMCT.
       At ICR, as indicated in Annex 6, this perception remains as one of the long-term
       misconceptions about the Project. It is a point that should be addressed through MMCT's
       Environmental Education and Outreach Efforts going forward.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for
Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes):

Main points reviewed during the stakeholder consultation session are summarized in Annex 6.


4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Significant

At ICR, the risk that the Project's development outcome will not be realized or maintained in the
long-term is rated as significant because of the unresolved institutional and financial constraints
assessed at Project closing.

With respect to MMCT's role in managing MMFR during the post-closure period, should
approval of the PPP by Parliament remain unsigned following the May 2009 Presidential
elections, the core institutional issue blocking further progress in achieving the Project's
development outcome will remain unresolved.



                                               26

And, although MMCT's administrative and program costs are financed by Norway in the near
term (to 2012), there is no guarantee that the endowment fund will grow to the expected US$10
million in four years time given the current global financial crisis.

Both constraints highlight the significant institutional and financial risks associated with
achievement and maintenance of the Project's development outcome.


5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance (relating to
design, implementation and outcome issues) Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase):

Rating: Satisfactory

The Quality at Entry assessment report rated Project preparation as Highly Satisfactory, despite
the fact that it was lengthy and challenging, it was deemed necessary given the operating
environment at appraisal.

The assessment included suggestions to the task team to improve certain aspects of the Project
including: (i) ensuring adequate supervision budget to allow for the participation of environment,
finance and organizational specialists; (ii) carefully monitor the trust fund management firm; and
(iii) watch for potential problems between MMCT and the Government in case of changes in
Government or other relevant political changes.

At ICR, the aforementioned factors affecting implementation and achievement of Project
objectives can all be traced back to the specific notes and suggestions made in the Quality at
Entry assessment report, including: (i) potential for poor performance and external vulnerability
of the endowment fund and (ii) risks associated with the evolving MMCT and FD relationship.

In hindsight, it would have been prudent for the task team and Borrower to have considered more
thoroughly and adopted more fully the findings and suggestions of the assessment during Project
implementation.

Given the aforementioned design issues and project preparation gaps, at ICR, Project preparation
in       ensuring       quality      at        entry      is        rated      as     satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank performance throughout implementation is rated as moderately satisfactory. At ICR, the
rating remains as per the final ISR dated May 2008 despite a few issues identified by the
Borrower and Implementing Agency as described below.




                                                 27

At ICR, the FD and MMCT both felt that the quality of Bank supervision was satisfactory based
on the fact that the task team continuously sought avenues and means for the Project to progress,
identifying viable solutions to address challenges arising throughout Project implementation,
particularly in the first two years. The Bank also assisted in identifying global expertise to
support Project implementation. In addition, improvements in Project supervision were observed
over time in certain areas. For example, some of the fundamental Project constraints were
addressed at mid-term review.

However, FD felt that Bank supervision fell short of expectations. For example, although the
supervision aide memoires were useful, follow up was considered limited.

Additional issues associated with the quality of Bank supervision included:
    ·  Minimal resident mission support during the early years of the Project. In addition, the
       Bank's Project Task Team Leader was Washington-based at the beginning of the Project,
       carrying out biannual missions to Mulanje, thus limiting daily or regular interactions
       amongst implementing partners. And, although Project preparation was extensive, the
       subsequent change in Task Team Leaders at the beginning of the Project brought about a
       temporary gap in Project preparation.

    ·  There was no interaction or cross-learning fostered between the Project and other GEF
       Projects at the global, sub-regional (Republic of South Africa - Table Mountain, Tanzania
       - Eastern Arc) or national levels (Lake Malawi Environment Project). The Bank did not
       facilitate any interaction with Bank-financed Projects such as the Development Corridors
       Assistance Project and the piloting of Mulanje in the National Water Development
       Program during Project preparation. Interaction with these projects may have helped to
       identify and optimize potential collaborative opportunities.

    ·  The Bank did not provide adequate training on Project financial management or
       procurement until the third year of the Project. The Borrower and Implementing Agency
       both felt that they would have benefited from more day-to-day, rather than biannual,
       supervision support from the Bank so as to effectively address issues as they arose. The
       time period between supervision missions was seen as a gap in support from the Bank to
       Project implementation. Given the model adopted with respect to implementation of the
       Project via a new NGO unfamiliar with Bank norms and procedures, MMCT and FD
       considered that additional regular resident mission support would have improved
       achievement of Project outcomes.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated as MS at ICR balancing the areas where the Bank
successfully designed, prepared and supervised the Project with those areas where the Bank
could have offered additional support to the Government and MMCT during implementation.




                                                28

5.2     Borrower Performance
NOTE: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating and justification only
for Overall Borrower Performance.


(a) Government Performance:


Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

    ·   From effectiveness to Project closing, the Government failed to allocate the financial
        resources (US$1.27 million) committed to the Project at appraisal. The FD failed to
        provide sufficient and appropriate staff to support implementation of the Project. The FD
        Director failed to collaborate with Project partners throughout implementation.

    ·   The PPP agreement agreed at MTR in 2006 remains unsigned and is unlikely to be signed
        before 2010 due to the Presidential elections in May 2009 and current delays in
        Parliament.

    ·   FD commitment to not reopen Cedar season has been sustained. Although, at ICR, it was
        confirmed that the Forest Department did allow harvesting of dead Mulanje Cedar for
        construction of artisanal fishermen's canoes as part of a Lake Malawi development
        project. As stated earlier, it remains unclear as to whether harvesting has been limited to
        dead Cedar and when this off-season harvesting will end. In addition, law enforcement
        on the mountain needs to be significantly upgraded before the Cedar season can be
        reopened.

    ·   FD has made concerted efforts to improve its relationship with MMCT. At ICR, this
        renewed relationship confirms the potential for positive future engagement as presented
        in MMCT's strategic plan.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

MMCT performance in the May 2008 ISR was rated as Moderately Satisfactory. At ICR, there
was no evidence to suggest that this rating should change. Full documentation and details with
respect to the criteria used to assign this rating are included in the May 2008 ISR.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This rating takes into consideration the considerable efforts made by MMCT to achieve the
Project objectives throughout Project implementation and the recent improvements in working
relations between FD and MMCT. The rating balances this improvement with the historical
moderately unsatisfactory performance by Government throughout Project implementation as
well as existing institutional and financial gaps and challenges.



                                                   29

6.     Lessons Learned (both Project-specific and of wide general application)
application)

The main lessons learned from this Project can be organized in three categories: institutional,
technical and community involvement.

   ·   Institutional

       o A key lesson learned from this Project is that the institutional framework and
           supporting policies should be designed such that accountability is clear to all
           stakeholders and lies where there is sufficient capacity. In other words, this Project
           created an asymmetry between government and a semi-private organization.                It
           created an NGO with the capacity to finance conservation of MMFR, but for which it
           was not accountable. Conversely, the FD was accountable for management and
           conservation of MMFR, but experienced decreasing capacity and resources to
           manage and conserve the MMFR. The conflict between MMCT and FD only served
           to exacerbate an already frustrating and dysfunctional working relationship, partially
           caused by these asymmetries. Despite these difficulties, MMCT was able to achieve
           results at the margin (e.g. fire breaks, clearance of invasive species) but was
           ultimately unable to address the ecological challenges faced in the Reserve because it
           was not accountable for it. And, FD failed to manage MMFR effectively due to lack
           of resources and institutional capacity despite holding primary accountability for
           management of MMFR.

       o A second related institutional lesson learned is that not only do the roles and
           responsibilities of all implementing partners need be clear from inception, the
           institutional capacity and commitment to carry out those roles and to deliver on the
           respective responsibilities is a critical element necessary to ensure Project success.
           This Project did clarify roles and responsibilities early on in Project preparation, but it
           failed to ensure that each entity held sufficient capacity and commitment to deliver on
           its responsibilities.

       o A third institutional lesson learned is that an endowment fund approach to ensure
           sustainable financing of conservation objectives can be successfully used as a tool to
           secure additional investments and attract strategic partnerships related to core
           conservation goals if it is embedded within a strong institutional structure.

       o A fourth lesson is that future operations should consider an M&E system critical for
           planning and also as an early-warning system for management. As previously
           mentioned, this Project's ecological monitoring system was delayed and unable to
           fully                  inform                   management                     decisions.




                                                 30

 o A final lesson learned was that for this type of operation (small scale, innovative
     district-level implementation model), Project supervision would have been more
     successful at addressing day-to-day management issues had it been based out of the
     resident mission. Direct resident mission support on a regular basis is preferable to
     biannual Washington-based supervision missions.

· Technical

         The primary research financed by this Project generated a number of important
         scientific results that warrant further investigation and can be used to refine
         strategic biodiversity conservation approaches on the mountain. For example,
         with respect to the question as to whether or not natural regeneration of Mulanje
         Cedar occurs on the mountain, comparison of four years of data suggest that
         natural regeneration does occur but that micro-environments affect germination
         and survival rates with significant variation between sites. Fire is noted to cause
         the           greatest           loss          of          new             recruits.

         The artificial regeneration studies also show some trends that can be of use in the
         consideration for the planting of the species. Lessons learnt from these studies
         have been applied on the Lichenya Plateau where seedlings planted under canopy
         have shown a 95% rate of survival.

         Other scientific findings of significance are described in detail in the published
         literature as well as MMCT's Project Completion Report in addition to the
         summary presented in Annex 2.

· Community involvement

         Local community involvement was a critical element in ensuring progress toward
         achieving the Project's GEOs. Provision of viable livelihood alternatives, coupled
         with pro-active engagement of local communities in Reserve management work
         and mountain conservation activities were essential ingredients affording MMCT
         and FD the success witnessed in several of the Project's investments.

         Had local communities not been involved in Project preparation and Project
         implementation, it is unlikely that the Project would have achieved as many
         results as documented at ICR. Early, intensive and continuous engagement of
         local communities is a core element of any future operation that will be carried
         out under similar circumstances (high population density, growing population
         pressure on natural resources, lack of livelihood alternatives, etc) to Mulanje
         Mountain.




                                          31

7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies:

(b) Cofinanciers:

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):




                                          32

Annex 1.         Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)


                               Appraisal Estimate  Actual /Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
 Components
                               (US$ million)       (US$ million)

 1.Trust Administration             0.52                  0.48                    92%

 2. Biodiversity, Conservation,                                                   51%
                                    0.84                  0.43
 Research and Monitoring

 3. Environmental Education         0.12                  0.06                    50%

 4. Forest Co-management and                                                      8%
                                    0.76                  0.06
 Livelihoods

 5. Conservation Trust Fund         4.95                  5.45                   110%

 Total Baseline Cost                7.19                  6.48                    90%

 Physical Contingencies             0.50

 Price Contingencies                0.33

 Total Project Costs                8.02

 Project Preparation Facility
 (PPF)

 Front-end fee (IBRD only)

 Total Financing Required           8.02                  6.48                    81%


(b)     Co-financing
(The appraisal estimate will be entered from the Financing data in SAP/AUS; Percentage of
Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)
                                              Appraisal           Actual/Latest
                                                                                      Percentage of
  Source of Funds         Type of Financing   Estimate            Estimate
                                                                                      Appraisal
                                              (US$ million)       (US$ million)
  Government                                  1.27                0                   0%
  GEF                                         6.75                6.75                100%
  DFID                    Grant               0.50                0                   0%
  Norway                  Grant (2007-2012)   0                   5.00                0%


Actual MMCT expenditures were: Trust Administration US$484,075.62; Biodiversity
Conservation Research and Monitoring US$431,333.04; Environmental Education and
Communication US$ 61,700.48; Forest Co-management and Sustainable Livelihood
US$64,115.86. The remaining US$252,936.66 was used for goods and works such as: office
equipment and furniture, 3 motor vehicles, 3 motorcycles and construction of the office building.
A total of US $5.45 million was transferred to the Trust Fund.

The Project cost by Component table above does not include funds received from Norway. Total
amount of funds received from the Bank were US$6.75 million. US$1.3 million was received
through a Special Account and US$5.45 million was transferred to the Trust Fund (Smith



                                                  33

Barney). MMCT did not receive funding from DFID or the GoM. As of January 6, 2009, a
balance of $17,063.34 remained in the Special Account and is expected to be returned to the
Bank in March 2009.




                                           34

Annex 2.           Outputs by Component

As noted in Section 3 on Assessment of Outcomes, the matrix below presents the linkages
between the original set of key indicators and outcome indicators in the Grant Agreement and
PAD and the measureable performance outcome proxy indicators developed by MMCT, the
Bank and FD at MTR.

The values associated with each proxy indicator achieved at Project closing, are indicated in the
matrix.

Overall, the proxy indicators assigned for each key indicator in the PAD (and Grant Agreement)
are considered robust and indicative of the information expected of the original set of qualitative
indicators. It is commendable that MMCT took the initiative at MTR, with the Bank's and FD's
support, to improve the Project's Results Framework and refine the Project's key outcome
indicators. MMCT is commended for being realistic in terms of recognizing what could be
monitored and measured effectively and for having improved the M&E system of the Project.

The proxy indicators were measured and used by all parties (the Bank, MMCT and the FD) from
MTR to closing. The results presented in the ISR's and Aide Memoires reflect MMCT's ability
and dedication to track each of the proxy indicators effectively.

The matrix below describes the extent to which each of the GEOs were achieved based on the
values assigned to each proxy indicator at ICR.



 GEO                 Grant           PAD               MMCT                  Outcome Indicator Values at ICR
                     Agreement
                                     Outcome           Measureable
                     Key Indicators  Impact            Performance/
                                     Indicators (Annex Outcome Proxy
                                     I)                Indicators (est. 2006
                                                       at MTR)
 Maintain the       Biodiversity     Biodiversity       Decrease in area     At ICR, 320 ha of pine remained. Representing
 Mulanje            conservation     conservation       with invasive tree   a decrease of 630 ha of pine plantation from
 Mountain           aspects of MMFR  aspects of MMFR    species: Pine        Project inception.       Similarly, rogue pine
 ecosystem,         Management Plan  Management Plan    plantation decline   elimination was recorded as 85% at project
 including globally under            under              (ha) and rogue pine  closing.    Both indicators suggest that this
 significant        implementation   implementation     elimination (by %).  outcome was partially successful.
 biodiversity and
 vital ecological                                       Area wildfire        With respect to wildfire damage, the end of
 services.                                              damage on high       Project target for the number of MODIS fire
                                                        altitude indigenous  reports was 15. A total of 30 fires were reported
                                                        plant habitats:      in 2008, twice the target value. As such, this
                                                        number of            proxy indicator was not successful in meeting
                                                        Moderate             the end of Project target.
                                                        Resolution Imaging
                                                        Spectroradiometer    With respect to area above 2000m % burnt, the
                                                        (MODIS) fire         actual value attained at Project closing of less
                                                        reports and area     than 10% matched the end of project target for
                                                        above 2000m %        this indicator.
                                                        burnt
                                                                             Taken together, these two proxy indicators
                                                        Area of agricultural suggest that minimizing wildfire damage on
                                                        encroachment:        Mulanje was partially achieved, but additional
                                                        internal (ha) and    efforts are needed to ensure a significant
                                                        boundary (ha)        decrease in wildfires at high altitudes.




                                                        35

                                                                                      Regarding area of agricultural encroachment, the
                                                                                      internal (ha) end of Project target value was 40,
                                                                                      actual value achieved was 5.       Boundary (ha)
                                                                                      target value was 40, actual end of project value
                                                                                      was 30. Both values suggest that encroachment
                                                                                      has decreased and that this aspect of maintaining
                                                                                      the Mulanje ecosystem has been successful.
                                                                                      Work going forward must continue to focus on
                                                                                      reducing encroachment as with the efforts
                                                                                      invested in reducing the incidence of wildfires.
                                                                                      Both types of interventions will function to
                                                                                      guarantee the long term maintenance and
                                                                                      integrity   of   the   Mulanje    ecosystem    and
                                                                                      biodiversity.
Maintain the        Ecosystem of          Ecosystem of         Decrease in area with  As discussed above, the end of Project values
Mulanje             MMFR maintained       MMFR maintained      invasive tree species: achieved for each of the proxy indicators
Mountain            in good condition     in good condition    Pine plantation        suggests that the expected outcome and PAD
ecosystem,                                                     decline (ha) and       outcome indicator can be considered as partially
including globally                                             rogue pine             achieved, with significant work ahead to ensure
significant                                                    elimination (by %).    that the MMFR ecosystem is maintained in good
biodiversity and                                                                      condition over the long-term.
vital ecological                                               Area wildfire damage
services.                                                      on high altitude
                                                               indigenous plant
                                                               habitats: number of
                                                               MODIS fire reports
                                                               and area above
                                                               2000m % burnt

                                                               Area of agricultural
                                                               encroachment:
                                                               internal (ha) and
                                                               boundary (ha)
Maintain the        Decrease in           Decrease in          % Community            The last community attitude survey was
Mulanje             FD/community          FD/community         Attitude Survey        conducted in 2006 at MTR. As such, the only
Mountain            conflict relating to  conflict relating to interviewees with      available score at ICR is 67% of survey
ecosystem,          Reserve access and    reserve access and   positive attitude to   interviewees with a positive attitude to FD.
including globally  use                   use                  FD.
significant                                                                           At ICR no further data, nor measurements from
biodiversity and                                                                      the FD's operating budget (as per the description
vital ecological                                                                      of the original indicator) were available to gauge
services.                                                                             whether or not this outcome had been achieved.
                                                                                      As such, this key indicator cannot be assessed at
                                                                                      ICR.
Increase            Community            Community             Scored community       This indicator was not monitored by MMCT.
awareness,          knowledge and        knowledge and         attitude and           MTR interviews and the ICR review process
understanding       appreciation         appreciation          understanding (from    suggest that messages are passing through, but
and appreciation    increased with       increase with respect the community          are not being translated into behavior change. A
of the value of the respect to target    to target message     attitude survey).      recent survey may provide more accurate
Mulanje             messages                                                          information.
Mountain                                                       .
ecosystem, at                                                                         At ICR, the last community attitude survey
local and national                                                                    conducted was in 2006 at MTR.          The rating
levels.                                                                               assigned to this indicator was 80%. At ICR, the
                                                                                      final year community attitude survey was not
                                                                                      conducted and, as such, the result associated
                                                                                      with this indicator is limited to the 80% score
                                                                                      achieved at MTR

                                                                                      At ICR, it is unclear as to the current level of
                                                                                      community knowledge and appreciation of target
                                                                                      messages. It is important to clarify that the focus
                                                                                      of this indicator is on community knowledge and
                                                                                      appreciation of target messages, not of MMCT
                                                                                      or the benefits generated by project investments.
                                                                                      It is not known at ICR to what degree the local
                                                                                      communities appreciate the target messages of
                                                                                      the Project.

                                                                                      Although, some indirect understanding can be



                                                                36

                                                                                 gleaned from the findings of the stakeholder
                                                                                 consultation session as summarized in Annex 6.
Increase            Local stakeholders                      Scored community     As detailed above, the last community attitude
awareness,          aware of and                            attitude and         survey conducted was in 2006 at MTR which
understanding       positive towards                        understanding.       scored this indicator at 80%.
and appreciation    MMCT and its
of the value of the objectives                              .                    In this instance, this score can be considered as a
Mulanje                                                                          fairly accurate indicator of the original key
Mountain                                                                         indicator due to the findings of the Project as
ecosystem, at                                                                    detailed in MMCT's Project Completion Report
local and national                                                               and the findings of the ICR stakeholder
levels.                                                                          consultative session, in particular, stakeholder
                                                                                 reliance on MMCT to deliver on a broad
                                                                                 development      agenda     beyond    biodiversity
                                                                                 conservation which suggests stakeholders have a
                                                                                 positive attitude toward MMCT
Increase                                Allocation of                            PPP was not signed, as such revenue retention
awareness,                              funds for reserve                        mechanisms were never developed.
understanding                           management
and appreciation
of the value of the
Mulanje
Mountain
ecosystem, at
local and national
levels.
Improve             Proportion of       Proportion of       Area (ha) of miombo  At ICR, 1,160 ha (of the 7000 ha target) of
sustainability of   MMFR resources      MMFR resources      forest under co-     miombo forest were under co-management and 6
biological          under co-           under co-           management and       of the 12 co-management agreements were
resource use and    management          management          number of co-        signed. Based on the proxy indicator data, this
enhance the value                                           management           outcome was not achieved, though a strong
of the Mulanje                                              agreements.          positive precedent was set.
Mountain
ecosystem to local
communities.
Establish long-     Effective           Effective           Trust operating on   At ICR, the trust was not operating on
term income         biodiversity        biodiversity        endowment fund       endowment fund income (indicator rating was
stream and          conservation        conservation        income, score of     0%). However, as previously noted, this
institutional       program             program             management           indicator is somewhat misleading in that the trust
capacity to         maintained over     maintained over     effectiveness,       was operating off resources raised by the
ensure              time in the face of time in the face of accumulated extra    existence of the endowment which can be
continuation of 1-  changing            changing            donor (US$m)         considered    indirectly as     endowment    fund
3; MMCT             circumstances       circumstances       financed raised for  income.
appreciated and                                             MMCT 3 programs.
respected by                                                                     The score of management effectiveness at ICR
stakeholders at                                                                  was 60% out of a target 90% as scored by the
local, national                                                                  MMCT team.
and international
levels.                                                                          The meaning of this score is difficult to judge as
Demonstrate the                                                                  to its core relevance with respect to the original
appropriateness                                                                  outcome indicator.
of Conservation
Trust Fund as                                                                    The proxy indicator score at ICR was 6 actual in
financing                                                                        committed and disbursed funds ­ that is, US$6
mechanism for                                                                    million raised in extra donor funds for MMCT's
biodiversity                                                                     3 programs. The target at Project closing was
conservation.                                                                    2.5, therefore, at ICR this proxy indicator
                                                                                 suggests that the Project achieved more than the
                                                                                 target value.

                                                                                 Together, the 3 proxy indicators suggest that this
                                                                                 outcome was moderately successful in terms of
                                                                                 maintaining an effective conservation program
                                                                                 in the face of changing circumstances. Although
                                                                                 it should be noted that M&E reports were neither
                                                                                 generated nor used to measure the outcome as
                                                                                 per the original description.
Establish long-                         Local stakeholders                       This indicator was not monitored during Project
term income                             aware of and                             implementation. The MTR and ICR stakeholder




                                                             37

stream and            positive toward           consultation    session    found    that     most
institutional         MMCT and its              stakeholders and Project beneficiaries are aware
capacity to           objective                 of and positive toward MMCT. The awareness
ensure                                          attitude survey was only carried out in 2006. A
continuation of 1-                              second survey is scheduled for June 2009.
3; MMCT
appreciated and
respected by
stakeholders at
local, national
and international
levels.
Demonstrate the
appropriateness
of Conservation
Trust Fund as
financing
mechanism for
biodiversity
conservation.
Establish long-       Contribution to the       As noted in the main text of the ICR, proceeds of
term income           MMCT                      the endowment do not currently cover MMCT
stream and                                      administrative and operational costs. At ICR,
institutional                                   Norwegian funding covers all of MMCT's
capacity to                                     administrative and program operating costs
ensure                                          through to 2012. It is expected that at that time,
continuation of 1-                              the endowment will have grown sufficiently to
3; MMCT                                         allow for MMCT to operate of the proceeds of
appreciated and                                 the Trust.
respected by
stakeholders at
local, national
and international
levels.
Demonstrate the
appropriateness
of Conservation
Trust Fund as
financing
mechanism for
biodiversity
conservation.
Establish long-       MMCT cited as             This indicator was not monitored during the
term income           positive example          course of Project implementation.
stream and            and model by GEF
institutional         and other                 GEF praise was not documented during Project
capacity to           conservation              implementation nor at ICR, However, it was
ensure                supporters                noted throughout Project implementation that
continuation of 1-                              several   other  conservation    supporters    are
3; MMCT                                         positive about MMCT.
appreciated and
respected by
stakeholders at
local, national
and international
levels.
Demonstrate the
appropriateness
of Conservation
Trust Fund as
financing
mechanism for
biodiversity
conservation.




                                          38

Output Indicators

With respect to output indicators, the following matrix presents the link between the PAD output
indicators and the refined set of measureable performance output proxy indicators developed by
Project partners (Forest Department, MMCT and World Bank) at MTR in 2006.

The achieved values for each indicator at Project closing are listed in the matrix.

Note, Project Component 1 did not have any output or proxy indicators defined since the results
of the Component were embedded in the outputs achieved under Component 5.




                                               39

Component Outputs       PAD                         MMCT                   Output Indicator Values at ICR

                        Output                      Measureable
                        Indicators (Annex I)        Performance/
                                                    Output Proxy
                                                    Indicators (est. 2006
                                                    at MTR)

Component 2:            Biodiversity/ecosystem      Degree of              At ICR, based on the following rating
                        baseline completed          effectiveness of       system (design 3 pt, baseline 7 pt, completed
Good baseline,                                      ecological monitoring  annual data collection 2 pt/yr, annual report
monitoring and          Practical long-term         system                 1 pt/yr), the degree of effectiveness of the
research information    monitoring program                                 Project's    ecological   monitoring    system
available to FD to      approved and initiated      Cumulated number of    indicator was scored at 12 which was less
improve MMFR                                        FD person days of      than the end of Project target of 22.
management              Biodiversity conservation   training
                        needs/actions reflected in                         Conversely, the other two proxy indicators
FD staff trained and    MMFR management plan        Number of person-      used to evaluate this PAD output indicator
equipped to protect and                             days of temporary &    achieved values above the end of Project
manage biodiversity     FD annual work plans, and   permanent jobs         target. The cumulated number of FD person
                        being carried out by FD,    created as part of the days of training indicator achieved an end of
Local employment        with community              daily MMFR             Project value of 194 compared to the target
generated through       employment                  management             of 124.
conservation actions
                                                                           The number of person-days of temporary &
                                                                           permanent jobs created as part of the daily
                                                                           MMFR management indicator achieved an
                                                                           actual value of 33560 which was higher than
                                                                           the expected target value of 22500.

                                                                           As such, achievement of the outputs for
                                                                           Component 2 can be considered as partially
                                                                           achieved.     With respect to the baseline,
                                                                           monitoring      and    research    information
                                                                           available to MMCT and FD for MMFR
                                                                           management, work is still needed to improve
                                                                           the system. However, with respect to FD
                                                                           staff    training    and    local    temporary
                                                                           employment through conservation actions,
                                                                           the indicators suggest that these outputs
                                                                           have, in principle, been achieved.        The
                                                                           caveat going forward in the post-closure
                                                                           period is whether both investments can be
                                                                           sustained for the long-term maintenance of
                                                                           the Project's GEOs.




Component 3:            Key messages and            Number of              Number of community level awareness &
                        educational/communication   community level        interaction events held: Target value was 50,
Environmental           approaches identified       awareness &            Actual end of Project value was 53.      Since
education and                                       interaction events     the actual value was higher than the target
communications          Agreement(s) with           held                   value, it can be stated that at ICR, the
strategy and program    implementation partner (s)                         outputs expected of this Component were
developed and ongoing   established                                        achieved and that based on MMCT's
                                                                           strategic plan and annual work plan 2008-
                        Requests made to MMCT                              2009, that investments in education and
                        for information                                    communication programs will continue to be
                                                                           a priority investment for MMCT, thereby
                                                                           ensuring     continuity   of    this   set  of
                                                                           interventions which have proven to be
                                                                           critical to the achievements of the Project.
Component 4:            VNRMC and other             Number of VNRMC        Number of VNRMC and other relevant
                        relevant community          and other relevant     community       structures   established   and
Improved FD and         structures established and  community structures   operational: Target 75. Actual 134. This
community capacity to   operational                 established and        proxy indicator is deemed to be fairly robust
implement co-                                       operational            in terms of providing an accurate measure of
management policy in    Forest resource co-                                improved FD and community capacity to
MMFR (trained,          management pilot activities Number of forest       implement relevant community structures in
organized and           underway                    resource co-           MMFR.        However, for the second proxy
equipped)                                           management pilot       indicator of "number of forest resource co-
                                                        40
                                                    activities underway    management       pilot  activities  underway"
Co-management pilot                                                        MMCT's end of Project report indicates a
projects                                                                   target value of 10 with an actual achieved
                                                                           value    of   5.   However,     in  all  Bank

Further complementing the actual values assigned at Project closing to each of the
aforementioned outcome and output indicators, specific outputs from each Component are
highlighted below.     Additional details on all outputs are provided in MMCT's Project
Completion Report.

Component 1: Trust Administration ­ The PAD Results Framework blends this component
with Component 5 Conservation Trust Fund. Outputs are therefore detailed under Component 5
below.

Component 2: Biodiversity Conservation, Research and Monitoring - At ICR, specific
outputs generated by Component 2 at Project closing were as follows:

Conservation Activities

Wildfire Prevention and Management: The rationale for this activity was to significantly reduce
the incidence of fires (one of the major threats to biodiversity) in the MMFR. Involving local
communities on wage labor, the following kilometer coverage was achieved in the respective
years (table below) with the resultant effects of fire incidences as shown in the figure below.

  Total kilometer Coverage of Firebreak Maintenance
 2002/2003       2003/2004       2004/2005          2005/2006       2006/2007        2007/2008

 896             439             758                314             212              880

The success of the intervention was measured through the number of fires observed via the
MODIS Satellite Rapid Response fire alert system. It has been noted, however, that the number
of fires in each year varied considerably, which was attributed to a number of factors ranging
from the level of fire management, i.e., extent of firebreaks cleared, fire fighting operations, staff
commitment and weather conditions prevailing on Mulanje.

   Incidence of wild fire detected by MODIS per year




To support reduction in wild fires, awareness materials were developed and distributed to
schools, villages and other establishments. Fire awareness signs were posted in strategic places
around the Reserve. In addition, a fire awareness campaign was conducted in 2008 reaching out
to 80 villages around the mountain.



                                                 41

Invasive Plant Species Clearance: Invasive species clearing focused on Sombani and Chambe
Basins, targeting Pinus patula and Rubus ellipticus with significant progress as detailed here:

  Clearance of Invasive Species on Mulanje Mountain (2002 ­ 2008)
 Years        Chambe                          Sombani                       Remarks
              Total Area = 770ha              Area Coverage = 74ha +


              P. patula        R. Ellipticus  P. patula       R. Ellipticus

                                                                             Inception year, activity was to be
 2002/2003    0                0              0               0              contracted out, but not possible
                                                                             due to conflict of interest related to
                                                                             hiring government entity to carry
                                                                             out work among other
                                                                             procurement related issues.

 2003/2004    150              8              74              0              Sombani was completed by mid
                                                                             2004.

                                                                             Saplings on Sombani from soil
 2004/2005    83               22             trace           trace          seed-bank were cleared, hence
                                                                             `trace'.

 2005/2006    0                0              0               0              Activity postponed due to
                                                                             inadequate financing ­ Project
                                                                             depended on endowment draw-
                                                                             downs.

                                                                             Postponed, prompting WB review
 2006/2007    0                0              0               0              team rating the program
                                                                             unsatisfactory.

 2007/2008    289              25             trace           5

The entire seventy-four hectares of pine plantation on Sombani was cleared by mid 2004, leaving
only isolated trees on peak tops, difficult-to-reach areas such as gorges and steep rock faces; and
the young seedlings/saplings that are emerging from the soil seed-banks. The germinating
seedlings and saplings are cleared routinely. On Chambe, a total area of 522 hectares out of
approximately 770 hectares has been cleared of Pinus patula. Because of the nature of growth
and spread of the Rubus ellipticus, it is difficult to determine the hectares cleared, independent of
the areas cleared for Pinus patula hence the figures are incomplete, save for areas that were
exclusively Rubus ellipticus infested.

Similar to the firebreak intervention, local workers from the villages surrounding the MMFR
were recruited on an annual basis to clear invasive species adding to the socio-economic benefits
received by local communities actively engaged in supporting biodiversity conservation efforts
in the MMFR.

Habitat Restoration and Cedar Forest Regeneration

Interventions and achievements in this area included:

    a) Two FD staff training courses were conducted to equip them with the necessary skills
        required to effectively discharge their functions. The first training involved 13 patrolmen
        in effective forest and environmental management, out of whom 10 emerged successful
        and these were posted in various locations around the mountain. They were meant to train
        others on the job. The second training involved 84 forest guards and patrolmen. These
        were trained in fire control and management. They too were to train others on the job. At


                                                    42

        ICR, the subsequent training-of-trainers expected from the initial sessions was not
        recorded. And, it was unclear as to how many of the original trained FD staff remained
        working    on     the   mountain     in   their    functions   following   the    training.


    b) Restoration of the degraded habitat of the MMFR, particularly the Mulanje Cedar forest
        has been significant (complete details are listed in MMCT's Project Completion Report).
        The number of nurseries increased and more Mulanje Cedar seed collection programs are
        in place.

Reduce the Illegal Harvest and use of Mountain Resources: Illegal resource harvesting has far
reaching negative impacts to the ecosystem health status of the Reserve. To address this
challenge, involvement of all stakeholders becomes critical. Interventions included joint
awareness activities aimed at sensitizing the police, the judiciary and the community. With
increased awareness on the need to arrest perpetrators of illegal forest resource harvesting in the
MMFR, a number of cases have been concluded in court. Both Court Users' Committees in
Phalombe and Mulanje Districts are actively assisting with apprehending offenders in forest
related offences.


Ecological Monitoring and Research

Ecological Monitoring and Research is an on-going activity of the MMFR ecological monitoring
program (EMP). Close collaboration between the FD, the Forestry Research Institute of Malawi
(FRIM), the National Herbarium and Botanical Gardens of Malawi (NHBG), the University of
Malawi and the Museums of Malawi and other research institutions in Malawi and MMCT
remains a strength in its own right. These institutions have been actively involved in the EMP of
the MMFR. Involvement of local communities who derive direct benefits from the Project is also
a positive aspect of this activity. Alliance with communities is now deemed a critical factor to
attract interventions to strengthen local capacity to address conflict management and monitoring
strategies.

The Ecological Monitoring Program. This program involved the following activities:

a) Monitor artificial and natural regeneration of Mulanje Cedar (Widdringtonia whytei) to
determine natural regeneration and survival success of the species.

Comparison of four years of data suggest that there is natural regeneration but that micro-
environments affect germination and survival rates with significant variation between sites. Fire
is noted to cause the greatest loss of new recruits. The amount of shade, litter level and mineral
soil upon which seeds fall are parameters worthy of further investigations.

The artificial regeneration studies also show some trends that can be of use in the consideration
for the planting of the species. Lessons learnt from these studies have been applied on the
Lichenya Plateau where seedlings planted under canopy have shown a 95% rate of survival.

Two out of the three study plots still survive at ICR. Evidently, Mulanje cedar will not perform
in open canopy areas such as those areas cleared of Pinus patula. This finding provides lessons
with respect to what can be done to those areas where invasive pine has been eradicated.




                                                 43

b) Woodland sampling and habitat disturbance monitoring assessed: species composition and
diversity as well as determined human disturbance and succession of species in all the eco-zones
of the MMFR.

Four permanent sampling plots were established at the start of the EMP in 2006. These were
established alongside disturbed transects that were established in six areas. With EarthWatch
support, three more sites were added during the course of Project implementation.

c) Plateau grasslands were surveyed to assess diversity and complexity of species based on the
understanding that several endemic species inhabit the plateau grasslands. The activity set out to
assess change in species composition as well as monitor the effect of fire on species composition
over time.

The data in the grasslands needs to be collected in an evenly distributed seasonal calendar in
order to capture the seasonality of occurrence of each representative plant species. Species
diversity and abundance will be assessed when sufficient data are generated for each site using
the Tree Diversity Statistical Analysis software.

At ICR, the emerging lesson is that fire regimes and intensities have a significant impact on
species composition. It was also observed that where fires were frequent the diversity of species
tended to decrease in favor of fire resistant or tolerant species.

d) The presence of large to medium size scat was considered a sign of serval cat / leopard and
therefore an indicator of ecosystem health. An assessment of the scat frequency was considered
of importance under the EMP. However, the study did not progress due to technicalities of
assessing the data. The possibility of delineating populations of felids using Deoxyribonucleic
acid (DNA) analysis was advanced, but that proposal has limitations. Therefore, this study
remains dormant at ICR.

e) Cycad populations and cycad moth surveys were conducted to form a better understanding of
the interaction between the host cycads and the endemic moth (Calioratus spp).

Specific findings from all EMP activities are available in the published reports and MMCT's
Project Completion Report.

Community involvement in EMP

The development and implementation of a strategy to engage local communities in research and
ecological monitoring are an emerging issue for the TAU. Reporting requirements under this
component are being addressed in the Forest Co-management and Sustainable Livelihoods sub-
component of the Project. Although communities are not directly involved in research activities,
they are engaged in collaborative management of the forest reserve. Results of EMP studies are
beginning to contribute to some of the community activities under the co-management
arrangements. For instance, the communities in the co-management blocks have demonstrated
that beekeeping would thrive if their forests are not set on fire. They have also realized that
direct cutting of trees is not a lucrative option of resource utilization.

Experimental Research

The MMFR Management Plan emphasizes research and monitoring to focus on those areas
where information is needed to help plan and refine management interventions. It states "if
optimal conservation and restoration strategies are to be developed, there is a need not only for
an experimental approach to answer key questions, but also for a comprehensive array of


                                                   44

baseline information against which all observed changes, whether or not related to any deliberate
management intervention, may be interpreted". The research and management program must
have means to acquire and update baseline data as well as to detect and measure change in key
species and habitats.

Biodiversity Baseline Surveys

At Project inception, MMCT contracted baseline biodiversity surveys to the Wildlife
Conservation Society. Gaps identified were addressed by sub-contracting rapid assessments
involving specific taxa.

These studies complemented requirements for development of the Ecological Monitoring
Program. Studies included:
    a) Small Mammals of Mount Mulanje
    b) The Reptiles and Amphibians of Mount Mulanje
    c) The Butterflies and Moths of Mount Mulanje
    d) The Mulanje Cedar Inventory

Following development of the EMP, a number of other research activities were carried out,
including:
    a) The Bat Fauna of Mt. Mulanje and Surrounds
    b) The Temperature Requirements for the Germination of the Mulanje Cedar Seed (Masters
        Research Study - completed)
    c) The Seed Ecology of the Mulanje Cedar on Mulanje Mountain (Doctoral Research Study,
        on-going)

Tourism and FD Infrastructure Development

This activity was aimed at improving the existing mountain tourist infrastructures that were in a
state of disrepair due to the extended period during which the FD lacked sufficient resources to
maintain and rehabilitate them.

Footpaths, bridge maintenance and erosion control: In close collaboration with the Mount
Mulanje tour guides under supervision of Tiyende Pamodzi Adventures (a Tour Operator's
Group in Mulanje), MMCT funded and facilitated the refurbishment of all footpaths on the
mountain, including all of the bridges that had either been burnt down or washed away by
floodwaters. The tour guides also worked on erosion control measures where gullies were seen
to eat into the footpaths. This work was completed in the first two years of Project
implementation.

Following completion of this work, footpath maintenance was carried out by porter's groups on
the understanding that tourists would only patronize their stations if these paths were well
maintained. At ICR, all footpaths were appropriately labeled, indicating directions to guide
tourists and hikers.

Tourist Hut Maintenance: All eight huts on the mountain received significant repairs, ranging
from interior painting, and physical repairs on doors, windows, ladders and roofs. The roof on
the Francis Cottage at Chambe was completely reconstructed. A new hut was constructed at
Chisepho (junction to Sapitwa peak). The huts were fully equipped with beds, mattresses,
blankets, cutlery and other cooking utensils. Three new watchmen huts were constructed at




                                               45

Chisepho, Chambe and Lichenya. Funds for these operations were provided courtesy of the
Scottish Mission in Scotland, Beit Trust, Mountain Club of Malawi and MMCT.

MMCT has also refurbished the Fort Lister Forester's house to add onto the existing tourist
accommodation on the mountain.

Component 3: Environmental Education
This component sought to achieve the following result: Environmental Education and
Communications strategy and program developed and on-going. The strategy was implemented
through a wide range of activities. Overall, the strategy maximized use of every available
channel to create awareness.

At ICR, key outputs included:

Community Knowledge and Appreciation of Mulanje Mountain Biodiversity Increased
The main objective of the Environmental Education and Communications program is to improve
public awareness and knowledge of the Reserve's importance and the benefits of protecting and
sustainably utilizing its resources.

Public Awareness Surveys
In 2003, MMCT conducted a baseline survey to assess the attitude of boundary communities
towards resources in MMFR.               The key findings from the survey indicated that boundary
communities had limited knowledge about the range of resources available in the Reserve and
limited understanding of the importance of managing these resources in a sustainable manner.
The baseline survey revealed that local communities perceived FD staff as threats to resource
exploitation rather than forest management partners. A subsequent survey carried out at mid-
term showed that the Project had achieved significant impact, as detailed here:

  Results of the Attitude Survey at MTR
 Boundary Communities that have received awareness from MMCT                       72%

 Communities with knowledge of the MMFR boundary                                   71%

 Community proportion with awareness of water as a benefit from MMFR               54%

 Communities with knowledge about MMCT                                             66%

 Community readership on MMCT Newsletter                                           4%

The findings from the survey led to the development of an environmental education, awareness
and communication strategy which includes communication interventions aimed at sending out
messages to address the identified gaps.

These interventions also identified key partners in Environmental Education and Communication
which included local leaders, youth clubs, drama groups, local musical bands, radio stations,
print and electronic media stations, primary and secondary schools, FD staff, private partners in
video development and message printing and sports institutions among others. The program also
supported establishment of the Wildlife and Environmental Society of Malawi Mulanje Branch
which today is a key implementer of environmental education activities in local schools. These
partners have played an important role in helping develop materials and to disseminate relevant
messages across different channels locally and abroad.

Component 4: Forest Co-Management and Sustainable Livelihoods


                                                            46

This component set out to achieve the following results: (i) Improved FD and community
capacity to implement co-management policies in the MMFR and, (ii) Co-management pilot
projects.

This component was under-funded during Project implementation, yet attracted financing
partners to foster complementary activities. Most activities were carried out satisfactorily.
However, some results of this component were threatened by the fact that at MTR, FD had not
yet signed the co-management agreements.

Specific outputs of this component were as follows:

Forest Co-management Agreements
The objective of these agreements was to increase and generate active participation of the
boundary communities in management and sustainable use of the forest resources. Ownership
and benefits to resources in the forest block is paramount. Increased participation and active
utilization of the forest blocks in sustainable natural resource based enterprises is a main
outcome of this effort. Achievements reached to date are indicated below.




     Progress of the MMFR Co-management Agreements

 Period       Parameters

 (Years)      Villages    Households   Estimated    Area in Miombo      Co-management Agreements
              involved    involved     population   woodlands under co- Signed
                                                    management

 2002         0           0            0            0                       0

 2003         0           0            0            0                       0

 2004         0           0            0            0                        0

 2005         6           2,533        13,932       1,160                    0

 2006         0           0            0            0                        0

 2007         0           0            0            0                        0

 2008         0           0            0            0                        6 ­ year signed

 TOTALS       6           2,533        13,932       1,160                    6

In addition to the six co-management agreement signed (with six villages), there are 2 sites (with
10 villages as sub blocks) for which similar agreements are under development.

Introduction of the co-management concept fostered a number of successful livelihood activities
including: commercial beekeeping, small-scale irrigation schemes, fish farming, mushroom
growing and commercial fruit tree improvement. Most of which were led by and benefited
women.

The outcome of some of these activities included:

    Progress in Commercial Beekeeping Initiative

 Period      Parameters




                                                47

 (Years)

               No. of     No. of Producing      Membership       Beehives    Honey production       Sales (MK)
               clubs      Zones                                              (Kilos)

 2002          0          0                     0                0           3.0                    0

 2003          3          0                     15               100         45.0                   12,600

 2004          15         0                     54               260         156.0                  330,245

 2005          33         6                     266              520         225.0                  554,365

 2006          30         2                     417              917         252.0                  677,010

 2007          29         2                     659              974         556.0                  934,050

 2008          37         2                     1006             2800        840.0                  727,420

 Totals        147        12                    2,417            5,574       2077.0                 3,235,690

Project support to commercial beekeeping initiatives focused on training, organization and
collaborative linkages. Communities were trained in technical beekeeping skills. Through
organization support, beekeepers were organized into clubs, zones as well as a legally registered
and functional Sapitwa Beekeepers Association. This association worked with the National
Bank of Malawi to secure Malawi Kwacha 25 million to boost honey production through
increased beehive construction.

Other income generating activities supported by the Project included: small-scale irrigation, fish
farming, mushroom production, commercial fruit tree propagation and curio carving. The table
below outlines the general trend of these economic activities. The main outcome of these
activities is the increased economic gains achieved by local communities that in turn reduce
pressure on mountain resources.

  Trends in Economic Activities Promoted by MMBCP
 Economic Activity   Focus                      # beneficiary households Avg income per beneficiary (MK)
 Small-scale         Production of maize,        · Tomato = 60           · Tomato = MK11,000 in 5 months
 irrigation          tomatoes and potatoes for   · Maize = 151           · Maize    = MK 5,000 in 4 months
                     commercial purposes         · Potato = 34           · Potato = MK 6,000 in 4 months
                                                Total     = 245
 Fish Farming        Production of fish in fish 50 households with over  MK3,000 per household in 6 months
                     ponds using water from     65 fish ponds
                     the mountain
 Mushroom            Production of edible       15 households with 17    MK3,000 per household in 3 months
 production          mushroom. Not              mushroom houses
                     necessarily using
                     mountain resources
 Commercial fruit    Improvement of fruit tree  7 households producing   MK4,000 in 4 months
 tree propagation    seedlings Budding and      700+ improved fruit tree
                     grafting)                  seedlings
 Curio Carving       Carving and joinery of     36 households involved   Unknown
                     different items


 Total                                          353 Households




                                                        48

Since 2006, the Project's livelihoods activities have been implemented in close coordination with
the Mkhumba Boundary Communities Livelihoods Project led by Concern Universal and the
Wildlife and Environmental Society of Malawi.

The Project's emphasis on piloting several alternative livelihood activities simultaneously has
given communities a choice to select the most attractive income generating activities. At ICR,
small-scale irrigation and beekeeping are considered the most beneficial income generating
activities whereas fish farming has been deemed an unattractive activity because of the time
required before harvesting. Such delays coupled with difficult marketing and low prices have
reduced the relative importance of this activity among local communities.

Land Resource Management and Tree Planting
Both Mulanje and Phalombe districts face increasing land pressure and food security challenges.
In both districts, agriculture is prioritized over tree planting. To improve land management
options, the Project promoted the creation of village forest areas in marginal areas of customary
land. This approach encouraged natural regeneration in marginal areas as well as incorporation
of agro-forestry, fruit tree planting and smallholder tea growing initiatives. These initiatives
aimed at improving food security through improved land resource management. The main
outcomes of this investment were the economic and food security benefits received by local
communities as well as watershed protection. The table below shows the trend in land resource
management and tree planting during Project implementation.
  Trend in land resource management and tree planting
                                                      Trend of progress over years
 Parameter                                            2002     2003     2004    2005   2006      2007         2008
 Community based tree nurseries supported with
 necessary materials like seed, planting pots and     0                 13      22     38        60           66
 watering cans and technical training
 Number of Village Forest Areas created               0        2        8       11     13        22           -------
 Area (ha) under agro-forestry                        0        0        0       4      12        33.1         -------
 Farmers supported with tea seedlings                 0        0        0       0      0         157          -------
 Number of tea seedlings planted                      0        0        0       0      0         101,387      -------
 Area (ha) under smallholder tea growing              0        0        0       0      0         11.0         -------


Forest Reserve Encroachment Limitation
Boundary community encroachment into the Reserve was a major threat to MMFR's resources.
This activity was aimed at ensuring that encroachers were evacuated in an effort to stop further
encroachment. Achievements at ICR are indicated in the table below.

  Progress in forest reserve encroachment limitation
 Period    Area under encroachment               Area reclaimed from encroachment   Associated livelihoods initiatives
 (years)
           Internal              Boundary        Internal          Boundary
           Encroachment          Encroachment    Encroachment      Encroachment
           (Ha.)
 Basic     81                    50              0                 0                None from MMCT initiative
 2002      81                    50              0                 0                None from MMCT initiative
 2003      81                    50              0                 0                None from MMCT initiative
 2004      81                    50              0                 0                None from MMCT initiative.
                                                                                    However, negotiations started at



                                                            49

                                                                    local level
 2005      81             50           0             0              · None from MMCT initiative.
                                                                    · Agreements reached for
                                                                       encroachers to evacuate
 2006      12.6           8            68.4          42              · Supported with beekeeping
                                                                       initiative
                                                                     · Given an opportunity for land
                                                                       relocation to Machinga district
 2007      12.6           8            68.4          42              · Supported 8 villages with 101,387
                                                                       tea seedlings to 157 people. 11 ha
                                                                       were planted.

MMCT focused Project support on fostering dialogue between the Forest Department and local
community leaders in order to excise encroachers from the Reserve. Support also focused on
awareness activities highlighting the importance of watershed protection. MMCT also facilitated
negotiations on livelihood activities as immediate alternatives for the landless. Introduction of
the livelihood initiatives resulted in 68.4 ha internal and 42 ha boundary encroachment to be
reclaimed. At ICR, some encroachers remain and efforts of force are underway to help them
adopt alternative livelihoods. The reclaimed areas were replanted or left to natural regeneration.

Capacity Building and Skills Development
Capacity building activities were aimed at local communities and forest department staff at the
district level.


Training areas focused on:
    ·   Technical tree nursery and forest management in customary land,
    ·   Conflict management skills,
    ·   Fruit tree improvement,
    ·   Commercial beekeeping,
    ·   Tour guides,
    ·   Co-management concept,
    ·   Agro-forestry technologies
    ·   Forest Policy 1996 and Act 1997

This training resulted in the following outputs:
    ·   Formation of 52 VNRMC,
    ·   Formation of Njema Environmental Management Committee and Mpatsa Environmental
        Management Committee in Laston Njema and Paramount Chief Mkhumba in Mulanje
        and Phalombe districts, respectively.
    ·   Formation of Sapitwa Beekeepers Association,
    ·   Tourism Association of Mount Mulanje,
    ·   Mount Mulanje Tour Guide Association;
    ·   Community based commercial fruit tree propagation groups
    ·   Small scale irrigation schemes

Tourism Development


                                                50

Project achievements at ICR under this activity, included:
    ·   Establishment of one information centre - InfoMulanje
    ·   Tourism Association of Mount Mulanje established
    ·   More than 120 tour guides and porters trained

Trend in tourists visits to Mulanje Mountain, 2002 - 2007

 Period    Months and number of tourists

           Jan   Feb    Mar     Apr     May  Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep    Oct  Nov    Dec   Totals

 2002      -     -      -       -       -    -     -     -     -     -     -      -     -

 2003      -     -      -       -       -    -     -     -     -     -     -      22    22
 2004      67    -      37      81      92   55    80    54    52    37    3      38    596
 2005      28    4      65      83      204  85    203   96    103   97    144    112   1,224

 2006      46    18     125     122     105  85    76    93    91    116   86     98    1,061
 2007      27    43     68      163     105  119   158   250   132   250   221    58    1,594
 2008      63    79     128     162     276  197   300   363   80    -     -      -     1,648
 Sep.

 Totals    241   144    423     611     782  541   817   856   458    500  454    328   6,145

The hospitality industry has increased the number of tourists coming to Mulanje Mountain from
all over the world. This effort has increased income for tour guides and porters and other tourist
service                providers                around                the               mountain.

As such, benefits generated by the livelihood investments ultimately stood to alleviate part of the
pressure placed on the mountain's resources by addressing the gap in livelihood opportunities.


Another important outcome of the Project that deserves to be highlighted here was the result of
the land resource management and tree planting investment which generated significant
economic and food security benefits for local communities as well as for watershed protection.


Both Mulanje and Phalombe districts face increasing land pressure and food security challenges.
In both districts, agriculture is prioritized over tree planting. To improve land management
options, the Project promoted the creation of village forest areas in marginal areas of customary
land. This approach encouraged natural regeneration in marginal areas as well as the
incorporation of agro-forestry, fruit tree planting and smallholder tea growing initiatives. These
initiatives were aimed at improving food security through improved land resource management.

Component 5: Conservation Trust Fund
At MTR, the endowment was fully capitalized and performing well with nearly 9% accrual in
2006 and capital reaching $5.89 million by November 2006. Despite such growth, the
endowment was insufficient to cover all of MMCT's administrative costs and conservation
activities.

At ICR, the endowment remained highly vulnerable to the global financial crisis. And, although
Norway confirmed funding for the post-closure period through to 2012, it remains unclear
whether the endowment fund will recover sufficiently in time and grow to the expected US$10
million in order to cover MMCT's running costs as well as the full set of conservation activities
once Norway's support ends.



                                                 51

However, this uncertainty must be balanced by the fact that MMCT's extensive fundraising
efforts have successfully attracted significant resources based on the original objectives of the
GEF Project. As such, MMCT has effectively used the endowment fund as a catalyst to secure
parallel investments in and around Mulanje Mountain, as follows:

 Projects Implemented by MMCT
 Project Name                        Partners            Amount        Donor                Status
 Mkhumba Livelihoods Improvement     WESM & Local                      European Union       Ongoing
 MMFR Encroachment Resolution        Local               US$10,000     German Technical     Completed
                                                                       Cooperation Agency
 Chisongole Watershed Partnership    United States       US$250,000    United States Agency Completed
                                     Agency for                        for International
                                     International                     Development, Coca
                                     Development, &                    Cola
                                     Local
 Ndala Irrigation & Fish-farming     Community &         US$14,000     United States        Completed
                                     Local                             Embassy
 E-MINDSET                           Practical Action &                European Union       Ongoing
                                     Local
 MMFR Millennium Seed Bank           Kew Royal                         Kew Royal Botanical  Ongoing
                                     Botanical Gardens                 Gardens
 Tourism Development                 Local               US$30,000     Beit Trust           Ongoing
 Micro Hydro-Power Generation        Practical Action /                European Union       Ongoing
                                     Regional
 Mozambican Montane Assessments      Kew, Mozambique     US$ 590,000   Darwin Initiative    Ongoing
                                     + Malawi
                                     organizations
 EMP Capacity Support                African & Local     US$100,000    EarthWatch           Ongoing
                                     Local               US$3,000,000  French GEF           Pending
                                     Local               US$1,000,000  Norway               Ongoing
 World Heritage Site Accreditation   Local               US$25,000     UNESCO & Spain       Pending




                                                       52

Annex 3.       Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in
the analysis)

The total GEF funding for the Project was US$6.75 million. This was distributed across Project
components as follows: (i) Trust Fund Administration ­ US$0.58 million; (ii) Biodiversity
Conservation, Research and Monitoring ­ US$0.40 million; (iii) Environmental Education and
Communication ­ US$0.14 million; (iv) Forest Co-management and Sustainable Livelihoods ­
US$0.13       million      and     (v)     Endowment        Fund      ­      US$5.5       million.

Total cost of the baseline investments of the Government of Malawi to the MMFR was estimated
at US$1.27 million. These baseline resources were used in two components of the Project:
Biodiversity Conservation ­ US$0.54 million and Forest Co-management and Sustainable
Livelihoods ­ US$0.73 million. Together, the total Project cost was US$8.02 million.


GEF incremental cost analysis
One of the key objectives of the Project was to establish a long-term income stream and
institutional capacity to sustain biodiversity conservation activities of the Mulanje massif. A
review of the incremental analysis to assess the efficiency of the Project was conducted. The
analysis compares two scenarios: the baseline and the baseline plus the GEF alternative. The
analysis serves as a basis for assessing the Project's incremental funding associated with GEF
support. Since an incremental analysis was also undertaken at appraisal, this analysis reviews
and updates the analysis by incorporating resources accrued to the Project during
implementation.


During implementation, the Project leveraged over US$10 million. These resources have been
used to finance community livelihood activities, such as: community irrigation and fish farming
which have reduced community pressure on the reserve. Norway has provided 24.5 million
Norwegian Kroner (US$5 million) for Project activities to 2012. This will enable the Project to
reduce draw-downs from the endowment fund.


The added value to GEF's involvement in the MMCBP has been to help build the limited
capacity of the government and other stakeholders in biodiversity conservation in Malawi.

GEF incremental support has assisted stakeholders to establish a basis for sustainable funding for
biodiversity conservation of MMFR. Furthermore, GEF support has (and will probably continue
to) attracted additional stakeholders to support efforts to conserve MMFR. As such the main
outcomes to be realized from GEF involvement include improvement in the sustainability of the
flow of both ecological and livelihood services from the reserve.

As illustrated in the incremental cost matrix below, implementation of the Project has
contributed to increased resources for most Project components.




                                               53

Incremental Cost Matrix

 Project                    Category                    Amount           Domestic benefit          Global benefit
 component                                              (US$ m ­
                                                        actual)
 Trust Fund                 Baseline                    0.00             No capacity for           No capacity for MMFR
 Administration                                                          MMFR                      biodiversity conservation
                                                                         biodiversity
                                                                         conservation
                            + GEF alternative           0.58             Capacity built            Capacity built
                            Incremental                 0.58 (0.48)
 Biodiversity               Baseline                    0.54             none                      none
 Conservation,
 Research and
 Monitoring
                            +GEF alternative            1.64 (0.43)      Improved                  Improved biodiversity and
                                                                         biodiversity and          ecosystem services
                                                                         ecosystem services
                                                                         and livelihood
                                                                         benefits
                            Incremental                 1.10
 Environmental              Baseline                    0.00             Community                 Increased awareness of global
 Education and                                                           awareness and             biodiversity values of MMFR
 Communication                                                           participation
                            +GEF alternative            0.44 (0.06)
                            Incremental                 0.44
 Forest Co-                 Baseline                    0.74             Declining resource
 management and                                                          based livelihoods
 Sustainable
 Livelihoods
                            +GEF alternative            1.25 (0.06)      Sustainable               Improved biodiversity and
                                                                         resource use and          ecosystem functions
                                                                         improved
                                                                         livelihoods
                            Incremental                 0.51
 Endowment Fund             Baseline                    0.00
                            +GEF alternative            5.90 (5.45)      Adequate financial        Adequate financial resources for
                                                                         resources for             sustainable biodiversity
                                                                         sustainable               conservation
                                                                         biodiversity
                                                                         conservation
                            Incremental                 5.90


 Total                      Baseline                    1.27
                            +GEF alternative            9.81 (6.48)
                            Incremental                 8.54
Note: Figures in parentheses are the actual funding levels by component at ICR. The analysis does not include the 5-year funding provided by
the Norwegian Government. The GEF alternative includes the appraisal estimate plus the additional funding leveraged from other projects, as
shown in the last table in Annex 2 listing other projects implemented by MMCT.


Fund-raising efforts have fallen short of the level required for the Endowment Fund to
independently sustain conservation activities at MMFR. It is not possible to assess the net benefit




                                                                       54

of the Project using the conventional rate of return because of the difficulty associated with
objective valuation of the benefit and cost streams from Project interventions.




                                                 55

Annex 4.       Bank Lending and Implementation
Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Task Team members


Names                       Title                        Unit             Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending (The system pulls from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet, if any.)

Nathalie Weier Johnson Sr Environmental Spec.            AFTS2            Lending TTL

Donald Herrings             Sr Financial Management      EAPCO            Financial Management
Mphande                     Specialist

Supervision (The system pulls from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs.)


Jean-Michel Pavy            Sr. Environmental            AFTEN            Supervision TTL
                            Specialist

Hardwick Tchale             Agric. Economist             AFTS1            Team member

Simon Chirwa                Procurement Specialist       AFTPC            Procurement

Francis Mkandawire          Financial Management         AFTFM            Financial Management
                            Specialist

Cary Anne Cadman            Forestry Specialist          AFTEN            ICR TTL


   (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
   (The system pulls data available for all fields)
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget
Stage of Project Cycle             Only)
                                   No. of Staff Weeks                       US$ Thousands
                                                                            (including travel and
                                                                            consultant costs)
Lending
FY98                                                 0                                    201.4
FY99                                                 0                                    22.5
FY00                                                11.4                                  78.7
FY01                                                10.3                                  38.0
TOTAL:                                              21.7                                  340.5
Supervision/ICR
FY01                                                3.1                                   10.8
FY02                                                2.0                                   36.0
FY03                                                6.0                                   28.0
FY04                                                6.8                                   32.5
FY05                                                10.0                                  47.6
FY06                                                18.8                                  83.2
FY07                                                19.0                                  75.5
FY08                                                10.4                                  46.4
FY09                                                3.0                                   16.4
TOTAL                                               79.0                                  376.5




                                                    56

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                            57

Annex 6.       Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Key stakeholders involved in Project delivery were consulted throughout the ICR preparation
process and at the November 5, 2008 Stakeholder Consultation Session.

Stakeholders: Compass, District Forest Department Officers, FD, Kara O'Mula Lodge, MMCT,
Mulanje Beekeepers Association, Mulanje Hiking Tour Association, Mulanje Mountain Club
Association, Mulanje Mountain Rescue Team, Nkula House Youth Center, Peace Corps,
Tourism Association of Mount Mulanje, Village Chief, WB, WCS, WESM.

Main findings and recommendations of these consultations related to either Project design
considerations or Project implementation issues. These are summarized below.

Appreciation of Mulanje Mountain: Stakeholders were in general agreement that, at ICR,
Mulanje Mountain is recognized nationally and internationally as a unique mountain with
important biodiversity. Many remarked that prior to the GEF Project, the importance of the
mountain's biodiversity and the threats to the natural resources of the mountain were virtually
unknown to local communities and the FD. Many noted that today's greater appreciation of the
mountain and its unique resources would not have been achieved if the Project had not been
implemented.     However, some members of the local community criticized the amount of
resources invested relative to the visible Project achievements.

Tourism: At inception, the nascent tourism sector welcomed the GEF Project as it would attract
more tourists and generate income for local communities. Subsequent establishment of a number
of tourism-related associations has been highly beneficial for most local stakeholders. At ICR,
the tourism industry in and around Mulanje Mountain employs the largest number of people
from local communities. Indeed, the Mulanje Mountain tourism sector is fairly unique in that it
is run almost exclusively by Malawians. In addition, the Project's investments in tourist related
infrastructures on the mountain are all considered very positive results of the Project. In the
future, more emphasis is needed to develop the tourism industry in the Phalombe district as well
as to support additional marketing efforts and infrastructure development. The Ministry of
Tourism should also be engaged to provide additional support to local tourism associations and
stakeholders.

Law Enforcement: Lack of sufficient law enforcement on the mountain was cited as a major
concern by all stakeholders. Effective law enforcement is needed to ensure the survival of
Mulanje cedar in the long term.

Employment: At inception, local communities welcomed the Project as it was considered
primarily as an employment opportunity. Indeed, MMCT initially hired many local workers, but
on temporary seasonal contacts. The temporary nature of the work caused some tension between
the communities and MMCT as their initial expectations of the Project were not met. Many even
threatened retaliation (setting fires on the mountain) if MMCT would not rehire them. At ICR,
the temporary nature of MMCT's employment is better understood and accepted by local
communities, in part because of the success achieved with the livelihood alternative pilots.




                                                 58

Misconceptions: At inception and at ICR, local speculation that the FD had sold Mulanje
Mountain to MMCT remained. This perception was exacerbated by the fact that MMCT began
employing local labor to carry out basic forest management tasks. Another misconception about
the Project at inception (but not at ICR) was that the Project would limit community access to the
mountain's resources.

Roles and Responsibilities: From the beginning of the Project through to ICR, clarity regarding
the respective roles and responsibilities of the FD and MMCT was and is needed. The lack of
clarity with respect to FD and MMCT's role remains a key challenge post-closure. In addition,
many local stakeholders remain unaware of the co-management agreements and what they entail.
In addition, some members of the local communities maintain that MMFR is an ancestral
property that they alone should manage not FD or MMCT.

Invasive Species: During Project implementation, tour guides and others had a negative
impression of eradication of the pine trees. The aim of the invasive species program was not well
communicated to local communities at the beginning of the Project. At ICR, there remained
some lingering misunderstandings related to the invasive species program.

PPP: Signature of the PPP is key to formalize the critically important relationship between
MMCT and FD. Such an arrangement would ensure the effective and long-term management of
the MMFR as well as the appropriate institutional arrangement for successful conservation of the
Mulanje Mountain biodiversity.

Co-Management Agreements: The Mulanje Mountain co-management agreements need to be
better understood. In order for these arrangements to be successful, local FD staff need to
understand their purpose and importance. There remains the impression that co-management
agreements remove the authority that local FD staff traditionally had in the MMFR.

Research: Primary scientific research should be fostered on the mountain to continue the
important work carried out during the GEF Project.

Remaining Challenges: Post-closure operations need to address several remaining challenges,
including: the potential for bauxite mining operations on the mountain, encroachment in Nessa
and Tinhare and continued illegal harvesting of Mulanje Cedar and poaching.




                                                59

Annex 7.Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on
Draft ICR




                          60

Annex 8.     Comments of Cofinanciers and Other
Partners/Stakeholders

Royal Norwegian Embassy: "I have gone through the ICR for MMCT several times and I feel
the report is well balanced. I feel however that MMCT's sustainability has not been adequately
assessed. The reason for Norway supporting MMCT activities was to allow the endowment to
grown to a level where annual returns would adequately support core activities. But will this be
achieved.

I also have a feeling that the MU rating is mainly due to the fact the FD failed to meet its
obligations. But the FD might have good reasons for its failure - which have not been presented
in         the         report         (may        be          I         missed         them)."




                                               61

Annex 9.    List of Supporting Documents

    1. Bridging Cooperation Agreement, October 2007
    2. Forest Department, End of Project Report, December 2008
    3. MMCT Annual Work Plan, 2008 ­ 2009
    4. MMCT Strategic Plan, 2008 ­ 2012
    5. MMCT Trust Administration Manual (Draft), July 2008
    6. MMCT, Project Completion Report, 2001- 2008, December 2008
    7. MMFR Management Plan, 2004 - 2009
    8. PPP Agreement (Draft), June 2007
    9. Project Appraisal Document, March 2001
    10. Project Concept Note, January 1998




                                          62

63

