      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)



                                                                                                                  Report Number : ICRR0020023


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P085376                                                CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 China                                                  Social Protection & Labor



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                      Closing Date (Original)                                       Total Project Cost (USD)
  IBRD-75590,TF-96109                                   31-Aug-2012                                                               83,521,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                    Closing Date (Actual)
  24-Jun-2008                                           28-Feb-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                    Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                             50,000,000.00                                                     500,000.00

  Revised Commitment                                              47,518,168.73                                                     499,971.60

  Actual                                                          47,518,168.73                                                     499,971.60




 Sector(s)
 Vocational training(48%):Adult literacy/non-formal education(24%):Central government administration(21%):Other social services(7%)

 Theme(s)
 Improving labor markets(67%):Access to law and justice(33%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator               Group
 Erik A. Bloom                       Soniya Carvalho                     Joy Behrens                          IEGHC (Unit 2)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    Project Portal Project Development Objective:
    The project development objective is to support the transition of rural workers to urban areas to access better employment opportunities that
    improve their incomes and working conditions. This objective will be achieved by: (i) improving the access of rural workers to skills
    development opportunities; (ii) reducing the cost of their job search through access to enhanced employment services; and (iii) removing the
    worst excesses of their transition through strengthened worker protections.

    Financial Agreement Development Objective:
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)



     The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower’s Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, Anhui Province, Ningxia Hui
     Autonomous Region and Shandong Province in providing support to rural workers in transitioning to urban areas to enable such workers to
     access better employment opportunities and improve their financial and working conditions.

     The Financing Agreement includes a statement about targeting (three local government units). Both objectives focus on greater access to
     employment opportunities as well as improved financial (i.e.. wages and benefits) and working conditions as the means to support the
     transition of rural migrants, the project's primary objective.
     Following standard IEG practice, this review will use the objective as articulated in the Financing Agreement.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     Component One: Skills Development (Planned IBRD: US$42.7 million; Actual IBRD: US$42.9 million). This component included
     activities to (a) enhance capacity of the project provinces to deliver training to potential migrants; (b) improve the quality, relevance, and
     flexibility of the training offered, consistent with migrant and market needs in receiving areas; and (c) improve functioning of the training
     market.

     Component Two: Employment Services (Planned IBRD: US$3.2 million; Actual IBRD: US$2.1 million). This component supported
     activities to (a) improve the provision of labor market information and public employment services for rural migrants; and (b) further
     develop policies and institutions for employment services and support the development of the market for employment service provision.

     Component Three: Worker Protection (Planned IBRD: US$0.9 million, Planned Grant: US$: 0.5 million; Actual IBRD: US$0.7
     million, Actual Grant: US$: 0.5 million). This component aimed to (a) improve the employment condition of migrant workers; and (b)
     increase awareness of worker rights and support legal services for migrants.

     Component Four: Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project Management (Planned IBRD: US$3.0 million; Actual
     IBRD: US$1.7 million).
     This component aimed to (a) support a policy-oriented research program and the sharing of information and knowledge concerning rural-
     to-urban migration; (b) help improve the monitoring of government programs in skills development, employment services, and worker
     protection and conduct impact evaluations of selected policy interventions; and (c) support project management and build capacity in
     general management and planning.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     The Project was approved in June, 2008 and became effective in November, 2008. It was restructured twice. The first restructuring
     (March 2012) extended the project closing date by 18 months. The second restructuring (March, 2014) further extended the closing date
     by 12 months and revised the results framework. The original closing date was in August, 2012 and the actual closing date was in
     February 2015. Around the time of approval, the Ministry underwent a major restructuring, resulting in significant turnover of key Project
     Management Office (PMO) staff. The closing date was further extended due to delays in project implementation during the first two years.

     Approximately US$2.5 million was cancelled, this was mostly due to funds that were not committed by the implementing agencies. This
     was largely in the Shandong province, accounting for 85 percent of the total cancelled amount. A total of US$50,000 were cancelled
     during project implementation, due to misprocurement as a contract was awarded to an unqualified firm.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)



   a. Relevance of Objectives

       At the time of approval (2008), the project was relevant -- the issue of rural to urban migration is highlighted in the 11th Five Year Plan as well
       as in the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for 2006-2010 (page 14 of the ICR). The focus on supporting the transition of rural migrants
       continues in the current CPS. Strategic theme 2 (Promoting More Inclusive Development) focuses on both rural-urban integration and skills.
       Under this strategic theme, Outcome 2.2 (Strengthening Skills Development-Including for Migrants) supports many of the activities in the
       project, such as new models of technical and vocational education. The current CPS, following the 12th Five Year Plan, reflects the
       government's priority of decreasing inequality and integrating migrants into the broader economy (page 27 of the CPS). Thus the project
       remains relevant for the Bank and the government.




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The project's design takes into account the different issues that rural-to-urban migrants are likely to face. The project was designed taking into
       account recent studies focusing on labor issues, namely the Labor Market Study (page 14 of the ICR) and so incorporates China's reality along
       with the global literature on What Works in technical training (page 9 of the PAD). This includes a mix of training along with the provision of
       information to migrants, accreditation of private training institutions, and legal reforms. The project offers sufficient flexibility, in particular the
       training program was only designed for the first 18 months, which would allow the project to adapt to changing labor conditions.

       The project was well targeted. Migrants probably have the greatest need for training and generally lack resources to pursue training on their
       own. Likewise, the project focused on sub-national units that are poor and face significant challenges from internal migration.

       Experience has shown that many training projects are "supply driven" and do not take into account the demand from private sector employers.
       While the PAD is not clear on what mechanisms are used to ensure private sector involvement, the PAD does indicate that employers will play
       a role in identifying priority roles (page 7 of the PAD). Thus it is not clear how the design included consideration of private sector demand.

       While the project does address many key issues facing rural migrants, it is not clear what efforts were made to improve the working conditions
       of migrants. The project provided limited support to improve the working conditions of works, primarily by efforts to increase awareness of
       worker's rights and support legal services (page 5 of the PAD).

       The rating for relevance of design is modest.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Providing support to rural workers in transitioning to urban areas to enable such workers to access better employment opportunities.

    Rationale
    Outputs

    The ICR reports the percentage of migrants who received short-, medium-, and long-term training for each of the local government units as
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)



well as the baseline and target values. In Anhui and Ningxia, there was a clear reduction in long-term training and an increase in short-term
training. Shandong, in contrast, saw a large drop in medium-term training and an increase in long-term training. While there were important
changes in each of the local government units (LGUs), it is not clear how these changes affected the efficacy either positively or negatively.
In other words, there is no clear evidence if increasing the percentage of long-term training is a positive or negative development.

Under the project, the percentage of the population that graduated from the program and obtained the National Occupational Qualification
Certificate (NOQC) increased from 50 percent (2009) to 98 percent (2014) in Anhui, from 20 percent to 95 percent in Ningxia, and from 52
percent to 95 percent in Shandong. This indicates a substantial improvement. The training was relatively short term, which indicates that
the project's activities could have contributed to the training over the length of the project. Likewise, the results measure the issuance of
NOQC, which is out of the control of the project and reflects the actions of independent authorities. For migrants, having an independently
validated certificate, such as the NOQC, is often useful in demonstrating qualification. Many other factors also likely contributed to this
increase.

The ICR argues that the increase in graduation and certification rate was due to the increased demand-driven orientation of the training
(page 15 of the ICR). This argument is supported by the project's results framework, which shows an increase in the percentage of
students taking "ordered training" (requested by enterprises)--from 20 percent (2009) to 60 percent (2014) in Anhui, from 17 to 95 percent
in Ningxia, and from 35 to 56 percent in Shandong. This is quite likely to have improved the relevance of the training.

The number of workers that used employment services increased significantly in Anhui (from 31,000 in 2009 to 624,000 in 2014) and in
Shandong (from 395,000 to 618,000). In Ningxia, the increase was less significant--- from 86,000 to 92,000. In addition, the number of
workers that were enrolled in "ordered training" (reported above) is also likely to have reduced the cost of job search as employers have
direct contact with the trainers and trainees.

Outcomes

The ICR presents few indicators that can measure job opportunities or employability in a quantifiable way. The project uses two indicators
that measure the percentage of migrants that find urban jobs within six months of graduating in general and in their specific area of study.
These show substantial gains in all three LGUs (table 1). This happened at a time when wages increased in the three project LGUs at the
same pace as the nation as a whole. This suggests that overall labor conditions improved at the national average while migrants in
the LGUs did better (page 56 of the ICR). This also happened at a time when economic growth in the LGUs were either near or below the
median growth rate for LGUs (page 54 of the ICR).

Table 1: Employment Rates
  LGU                 Employment Rate for Graduates                                Employment Rate for Graduates in the Field of Study
                      2007                           2014                          2007                          2014
  Anhui               51%                            98%                           20%                           88%
  Ningxia             86%                            90%                           64%                           90%
  Shandong            63%                            91%                           54%                           78%
In addition, the project measured the percentage of migrants that were hired by the firm that sponsored ("ordered") specific training under
the program. This likely represents a decision by firms to hire graduates due to the quality and relevance of the training that was supported
by the project.

Table 2: Employment in ordered training (only rural population)
  LGU                                                               2009                                2014
  Anhui                                                             56%                                 84%
  Ningxia                                                           80%                                 88%
  Shandong                                                          43%                                 68%

While many factors contributed to the increase in employment between 2009 and 2014, the increase in relevance and the quality of training
as well as the issuing of certifications and the increased use of employment services in likelihood made an important contribution to the
subsequent increase in employment.

The government reported that there was a significant increase in the number of legal contracts signed, including a 30 percent increase in
Shandong province. The government argued that these trends have continued after the project closed. It is not clear what the project’s
overall contribution was to this increase although the ICR suggests the project did contribute (pages 47 and 48 of the ICR).

A separate evaluation, carried out by a university, compared beneficiaries with graduates in non-project schools. The results showed that
graduates were 19 percent more likely to have certification, 9 percent more likely to have found employment in their studied field, and more
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)



    likely to have formal employment. Likewise, the study also showed that project beneficiaries have, on average, 24 percent higher hourly
    wages and work 1.6 days per month than comparison graduates. Some selection bias is possible.
    Objective 1 is rated as substantial.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     Improvement in workers' financial conditions.

    Rationale
    Outputs
    The outputs reported for Objective 1 equally apply for this objective area and it is not possible to disentangle the two areas.

    Outcome

    The above outcomes, particularly those related to employment, are proxies for the financial conditions. This reflects the likelihood to have a
    job, which is the key to improved financial conditions for migrants. Likewise, the number of formal contracts signed (see Objective 3, below)
    may also be a sign of greater financial security and stability. As argued below, it is not clear the degree to which this can be associated with
    the project.
    The ICR reports an important increase in wages for participants in the long-term training program:
       LGU                          Type              Before                After                         % Annual Gain
       Anhui                        Total             1,430                 3,350                         16%
                                    Rural             1,400                 3,130                         17%
       Ningxia                      Total             1,808                 2,474                         6%
                                    Rural             1,770                 2.431                         6%
       Shandong                     Total             1,300                 2,79513%                      15%
                                    Rural             1,300                 2,763                         15%
    Annex 10 of the ICR suggests that in Anhui and Shandong, the increases are similar to the gains in wages seen in a previous period (2008
    to 2012) in the Central and Western regions. The project covers the period from 2009 to 2014, which was a period of slower economic
    growth. The wages of trainees appear to have increased more than that of the regional average. The results from Ningixi are less clear and
    are below the regional averages.




    Rating
    Substantial

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 3

    Objective
     Improvement in workers' labor conditions.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)




 Rationale
 Outputs
 The government's evaluation report included detailed information on the implementation and impact of support to activities related to legal
 rights. This included training to around 700 policy makers and 240,000 migrants on worker’s rights. It also included the distribution of
 informational material to a wide audience (page 46 of the ICR). The ICR reports that around 800,000 workers viewing films and receiving
 printed materials (page 33 of the ICR). In addition, the ICR reports that 1.3 million benefited from publicity during the Spring Festival
 although it is not clear what this consisted of (page 33). The project supported nine policy studies to inform policy reform and rights
 protection for rural migrants on a national level.

 Outcomes
 The ICR reports an increase in the number of legal interventions. Specifically, the number of legal consultations increased from 2,853 per
 year in 2009 to 6,195 in 2014 in Anhui and from 4,000 to 34,625 in Shandong. The number of migrants receiving legal assistance in
 Ningxia dropped from 7,642 per year in 2009 to 6,536 in 2014.The ICR reports that this drop was expected due to an increase in education
 and awareness (page 16). Based on the data presented in the ICR, it appears that education and awareness campaigns were carried out
 throughout the project.

 The government reported that there was a significant increase in the number of legal contracts signed and reports that these trends have
 continued after project closure. The ICR reports increases in labor contracts for migrants in two major cities, Linyi and Lu'An (page 48).
 While these are important cities, it is not clear what percentage of the migrants are located there.

 Given insufficient evidence of improved workers' labor conditions, the achievement of this objective is rated modest.




 Rating
 Modest



5. Efficiency

 In principle, external efficiency may be measured in at least three ways for a skills development project: (1) Increase in income of
 beneficiaries, which reflects their greater employability as well as the likelihood of earning higher wages in the job market; (2) Increased
 profitability for employing firms, due to the increase in productivity; and (3) reduction in the transaction costs associated with finding and
 keeping a job. While the economic analysis in the PAD discusses the importance and relevance of the project, it does not provide any attempt
 to estimate the external benefits associated with the project. Likewise, the ICR (page 35) does not present any attempt to quantify or
 discuss ex post benefits.

 The ICR also presents information on the project's internal efficiency. The project faced a significant delay in its initial period and
 implementation and disbursement. This delay was for approximately twelve months. These initial delays were among the main reasons that
 the project was extended. It is a shortcoming in efficiency. After project implementation started, the ICR argues that it was implemented in an
 efficient way and led to changes that should lead to future gains in the efficiency of providing services. However, it presents no concrete
 evidence.

 Given the slow start of the project and the lack of data on cost-effectiveness of its specific interventions, project efficiency is rated modest.




Efficiency Rating
Modest


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)



                                                Rate Available?             Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                              0
 Appraisal                                                                  0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

                                                                                                              0
 ICR Estimate                                                               0
                                                                                                              Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The relevance of objective was rated high reflecting the project continued to be of priority to both the government and the Bank, with a modest
relevance of design that reflects the fact that the project design did not fully address the project's objective. Two of the three objectives were
rated substantial, while the third was rated modest. Efficiency is difficult to measure and is rated modest. Taking these ratings into account, the
overall rating for project outcome is moderately satisfactory.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Given demographic and economic trends, improving opportunities for rural to urban migrants remains a major issue in China and the
government continues to support employment initiatives for migrants (pages 14 19, and 36 of the ICR). The ICR indicates that the project has
substantially built up the capacity of local implementing agencies as well as training organizations (page 19 of the ICR). The project's extensive
use of "ordered training" is also likely to have contributed to the long-term ownership of the investments supported by the project. According to
the government, the project continues to yield benefits (pages 47 and 48 of the ICR).



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Negligible


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The Bank provided a wide range of support to design the project. The project was built on a joint research program focusing on the labor
     market, which provided the analytical base for the project's design, including the decision to focus on active (as opposed to passive) labor
     market policies (page 8 of the ICR). This analytical work made a number of direct contributions to the project, including the decision to include
     capacity building in poorer LGUs as well as incorporating other interventions that complemented skills training. Likewise the appraisal took
     into account lessons from other countries as well. However, it did not appear that there was much analytical work behind the design of the
     component that aimed to improve the rights of workers and working standards.

     The Bank's work on M&E and results was spotty. While the results framework was well-defined and included a number of innovative
     proposals to measure the project's impact, the details were often lacking particularly for the proposed impact evaluation. The lack of baselines
     and targets were an important shortcoming.

     Prior to the project's approval, the Bank supported a social assessment that recommended special consideration of gender issues although it
     is not clear how much this report was taken on board or how much the Bank considered gender in its design and in the project's results
     framework (page 20).
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)




   The analytical work also contributed to the economic analysis to the extent that it provided justification for public sector interventions to
   support rural migrants. But a better analysis of benefits of this project should have been undertaken. The project's risk assessment took into
   account institutional risk, including the weakness in implementation capacity as well as issues with interagency cooperation. The project
   suggested mitigation actions, including efforts to support the executing agency's capacity.



   Quality-at-Entry Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
   The project's implementation was initially delayed due to changes in the government structure. It does not appear that the Bank team was able
   to provide capacity building or technical assistance to the implementing agency until 2010. After this date, the project team carried out periodic
   missions to support implementation. Likewise, the country office participated in bi-monthly implementation support meetings for the project
   (page 21 of the ICR). Although the government highlighted some of the difficulties in applying Bank procedures in China, it did acknowledge
   the contribution of the Bank’s and the project’s support to improve capacity (page 49 of the ICR).

   The project had two restructurings. The first focused on extending the project closing date in 2012 while the second introduced target values for
   the results framework in 2014. While these changes were necessary, they could have been introduced earlier as these issues were known
   before the mid-term review in 2011 (pages 3 and 7 to 8 of the ICR). The Bank did not take account of delays to improve the quality of the
   targets or to refine the baseline.



   Quality of Supervision Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The project was initially delayed due to structural changes in the government (the merging of two ministries) that took place around the
   start of the project. It appears that the government did not make adequate preparation to support the project during this period of transition.
   In particular, the Central Project Management Office (CPMO) was understaffed and often had limited capacity. This could have been
   strengthened early and possibly independently of the government reorganization (page 22 of the ICR).

   The government (through the Ministry of Finance) provided significant support to the project through its ongoing meetings with staff from
   the Bank and the implementing agencies. These meetings aimed to improve performance and to make up for the delay at the beginning of
   the project. These meetings were initially held on a bi-weekly basis, with the intensity gradually reduced as project implementation gained
   momentum. According to the ICR, the meetings supported the development of financial management and project management at the local
   level as well as identifying solutions in overcoming implementation challenges (page 22 of the ICR).

   The ICR argued that the Ministry of Finance often provided project oversight in lieu of the newly-created Ministry of Human Resources and
   Social Security. This included support to the CPMU as well as the provincial project management offices (PPMO). It also facilitated direct
   communication and interaction between the Bank and the PPMUs to improve the project's efficiency (page 22 of the ICR).



   Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The ICR reports that the CPMU and the PPMUs were actively engaged in project implementation and supervision. However, there were
   important differences among the various project management offices.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)




   In particular, the CPMU and the PPMU for Shandong suffered from weak management caused by a large and unpredictable staff turnover.
   Leadership was an issue at the CPMU, with many tasks falling to junior staff members. These issues were not resolved until the final year
   of the project. The Shandong PPMO had only one part-time staff member working on the project, which often led to significant delays in
   implementation, particularly on many of the smaller details of the project.

   In contrast, the Ningxia and Anhui PPMOs were proactive in reducing turnover. This required collaboration from senior officials in each
   LGU, reflecting the commitment of the two local governments to implementing the project. This led to the timely implementation of many
   elements of the project at the LGU level (page 23 of the ICR).

   According to the ICR, the procurement rating ranged from Satisfactory to Unsatisfactory throughout project implementation, but was given
   a Moderately Satisfactory rating for the last Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR).



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   There were important shortcomings in the design of the results framework. While the choice of indicators generally reflected the project’s
   objectives and its activities, no targets were developed. Likewise the results framework did not include any indication of inclusion on the basis of
   gender and ethnicity despite the fact that these issues have been identified elsewhere. The proposal for data collection, monitoring, and analysis
   were well-designed but the details of implementation were often vague (pages 25 and 26 of the PAD).

   The M&E design was quite ambitious, including the need to collect data and to carry out impact evaluations. This may not have been
   appropriate given the low level of capacity at the implementing agency level (page 25 of the ICR).




b. M&E Implementation
   There were a number of delays with the submission of useful M&E data at the LGU level (page 22 of the ICR). However this improved with
   time (pages 12 and 23 of the ICR). In addition two of the LGUs (Ningxia and Anhui) developed strong M&E capacity and were able to submit
   data in a timely fashion (page 23 of the ICR).The final data presented in the project's results framework and in the government's evaluation
   report suggest that capacity increased.

   The impact evaluation studies were never carried out. The ICR attributes this to a lack of staff, capacity, and budget to carry them out (page
   24 of the ICR).




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR does not present evidence that the M&E system was used to adjust the project during implementation. The government's evaluation
   report indicates that the central government monitored the project's progress and developed lessons for projects and policy reform.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)



11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   According to the ICR, the project did not trigger any of the safeguards. In the case of the indigenous people's policy (OP 4.12), this reflects
   Bank practices in the country (page 66 of the PAD). Likewise while the project did support civil works, these were considered minor and not
   sufficient to trigger an environmental assessment (OP 4.01; page 15 of the PAD). According to OP 4.01, the project is classified as
   Category C with regard to environmental effects. The project had no adverse environmental effects. A certain amount of civil works was
   financed by counterpart funds to build new or renovate existing classrooms, labs, libraries, and dorms. These civil works followed Chinese
   regulations and requirements on environmental protection and management. The civil works plan was reviewed by the Bank after appraisal
   and it was confirmed that none of the activities would go beyond the concept defined by OP 4.01 for Category C.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   According to the ICR, the project had a strong financial management system and audits were carried out in a timely fashion (page 12 of the
   ICR). According to the ICR, financial management was rated in the Satisfactory range throughout project implementation. The project had an
   adequate project financial management system and provided reasonable assurance and accurate and timely information on project
   implementation progress, with timely reporting of external audits of project funds. There were no major outstanding issues, and minor
   deficiencies such as delays in project accounting and financial reporting by the PPMOs were addressed or resolved in a timely manner.

   The project did have a number of issues with procurement, including one case that led to misprocurement. These issues were reflected in the
   Bank’s reports and were initially identified by the project’s financial management system, including the annual audits. According to the ICR,
   the Audit Report disclosed that a US$50,000 contract was awarded by the Central Project Management Office (CPMO) to an entity with no legal
   standing. The team requested the government to suspend payments on this contract, recorded the issue in the aide memoire (supervision
   mission July 22–26, 2012), and conducted a post review. The CPMO and the MOF agreed to the findings of the Audit Report and the Bank’s
   post review. The CPMO appropriately addressed the issue by halting all future payments on this contract and repaid the Bank US$15,000 which
   had already been paid to the entity under this contract. Furthermore, the ICR notes that the procurement rating ranged from Satisfactory to
   Unsatisfactory throughout project implementation with a Moderately Satisfactory rating for the last Implementation Status and Results Report
   (ISR).




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   The ICR did not indicate any unintended impacts.




d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                               Reason for
Ratings                                  ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                               Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                  Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Risk to Development Outcome              Negligible                         Negligible                         ---
Bank Performance                         Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory            ---
        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        CN-Migrant Skills Dev. and Employment (P085376)



Borrower Performance                      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            ---
Quality of ICR                                                              Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR identified a number of lessons from the Bank's (pages 23 and 24 of the ICR) and government's (page 48 to 50 of the ICR) experience.
Some of these include:
(1) The ownership and support from the central government can play a major role in improving the capacity at the local level. When combined
with the support of the World Bank, both by the project team and the country office, this can have a major impact on implementation and impact.
This was clearly seen in Ningxia and Anhui, as with the Ministry of Finance at the central level.
(2) While it is important to be ambitious with an M&E framework, it is also important to take local capacity into account and make realistic
arrangements with the implementing agency.
(3) Gender and other measures of inclusion should be included in project design and results frameworks, especially when indicated as issues by
analytical work.
(4) Structured project supervision can help overcome shortcomings in capacity, by providing clear guidelines and instructions for the various
implementing agencies.
(5) Capacity building requires a number of different inputs, including training, hands-on supervision by the Bank and the government as well as
study tours and active engagement in policy research.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is well-written with a comprehensive description of project implementation as well as detailed data at the central and LGU levels.
There are no major shortcomings in its presentation. The government's contribution was also comprehensive and useful in understanding the
project. The ICR was candid in its discussion of the project's various shortcomings on both the government and the Bank side. This led to a
robust set of lessons and recommendations.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Substantial
