Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7531-CN 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Shandong Power Plant Flue Gas Desulphurization Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 17, 2008  
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 17, 2008, between 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), 
as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement 
(“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawal Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions.  
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project Implementing Entity to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions 
and the Project Agreement. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that any 
parties to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations thereunder. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI –
 
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. T
he
Borrower’s Representative is the Borrower’s Minister of Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe 
Beijing 100820 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-10) 6855-1125 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Bei
jing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar  
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project 
is to assist Borrower’s Shandong Province in 
reducing sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission in the heat and power sector and enhance the 
capacity of the regulatory authorities in Shandong Province to monitor and enforce 
compliance with the SO2 emission reduction program in Shandong Province. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: 
Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) Facilities  
 
Carrying out FGD installation Sub-projects at the coal-fired heat and power 
plants owned by the Project Companies in Shandong Province. 
 
Part B: 
Technical Assistance  
 
Provision of technical assistance and training to Shandong Province in 
strengthening its technical and institutional capacity related to SO2 emission 
control and reduction in Shandong Province, including: (i) capacity building in 
SO2 emission reduction, monitoring and regulation enforcement; (ii) staff  and 
managerial training in SO2 emission control and reduction; and (iii) 
development of related regulations, procedures, and policies.      
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing Arrangements
1. 
 
The Borrower shall make available the proceeds of the Loan to the Project 
Implementing Entity, under the following principal terms:
 
(a) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars (determined on 
the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.   
 
(b) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of seventeen (17) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years: (A) the principal amount so 
made available; and (B) an amount equal to the fee paid pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement.  
 
(c) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A
.
Project Reports   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate, and shall cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the 
General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex B of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement.   Each Project Report shall cover the period 
of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
February 28 and August 31 in each year, starting on August 31, 2008. 
 
B
.
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project Report not later than  
one (1) month after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
Page  8
-
7
-
financial reports for the Project covering the calendar semester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A
.
General
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Methods: 
(a) Shopping 
 
(b) Direct 
Contracting 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
National Competitive Bidding
.
In addition, the procedures to be followed for 
National Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following 
clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except for 
civil works contracts that are estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 
equivalent each and for goods contracts that are estimated to cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent each, which may be advertised in a 
provincial daily newspaper.  Such advertisement shall be made in 
sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or 
bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.  In any 
event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between 
the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall 
specify the deadline for such submission.   
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no 
limit on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity, 
as the case may be, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and 
the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such security.    
 
(v) 
The date and time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the 
deadline for receipt of such bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be offered an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average 
bids established by the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity, 
as the case may be. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(viii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost.  The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not 
stipulated in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as 
originally submitted. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(x) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3). 
C
.
Particular Met
hods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for 
services estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method: 
(a) Quality-based 
Selection 
(b) 
Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications  
(c) Single-source 
Selection 
(d) 
Individual Consultants  
Page  11
-
10
-
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by  
the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category (inclusive of taxes). 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods and works under Part A of 
the Project: 
 
(a)  for Huangtai Sub-project  
 
(b)  for Laiwu Sub-project  
 
(c)  for Lubei Sub-project 
 
(d)  for Yantai Bajiao Sub-project 
 
14,962,500 
 
9,225,000 
 
14,962,500 
 
9,975,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) Consultants’  services,  training, 
workshops, study tours under 
Part B of the Project  
 
750,000 
 
100% 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(3) Front-end Fee 
 
125,000 
 
Amount payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,000,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after November 1, 2007 for Eligible Expenditures; and    
 
(b) 
under each of Categories (1)(a), (1)(b); (1)(c); and (1)(d); until the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entity of 
its receipt of a copy of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement entered into 
between the Project Implementing Entity and each  respective Project 
Company, satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 5 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2012. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
Beginning April 15, 2013  
through April 15, 2025 
 
4% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
Page  15
-
14
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
3. 
“Displaced Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of Part A of 
the Project, have experienced or would experience direct economic and social 
impacts caused by: (a) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (i) relocation 
or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access to assets; or (iii) loss of income 
sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such persons must move to 
another location; or (b) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated 
parks and protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such 
persons; and a “Displaced Person” means any of such Displaced Persons. 
 
4. 
“Environmental Management Plans” means, collectively, Environmental 
Management Plan dated October 2006 prepared for the Laiwu Sub-project under 
Part A of the Project; Environmental Management Plan dated October 2006 
prepared for Yantai Bajiao Sub-project under Part A of the Project; 
Environmental Management Plan dated October 2006 prepared for Lubei  
Sub-project under Part A of the Project; and Environmental Management Plan 
dated October 2006 prepared for Huangtai Sub-project under Part A of the 
Project; which said plans set out the environmental protection measures in
 
respect of Part A of the Project, as well as administrative and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plans, as said plans may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank.  
 
5. 
“FGD” means Flue Gas Desulphurization. 
 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project 
dated October 18, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Page  16
-
15
-
9. 
“Project Companies” means, collectively, Shandong Luneng Development Group 
Limited Liability Company; Shandong Laiwu Luneng Heat and Power Limited 
Liability Company; Shandong Lubei Power Limited Liability Company; and any 
successors thereto; and “Project Company” means, individually, any of said 
Project Companies. 
 
10. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the Borrower’s Province of Shandong and 
any successor thereto. 
 
11. 
“Project Management Office” means Shandong Provincial Gas Desulphurization 
Project Management Office referred to in paragraph 1(b) of Section I the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
 
12. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” means, collectively, the Resettlement Action Plan  
dated December 28, 2006 prepared for Yantai Bajiao Sub-project under Part A of 
the Project, and the Resettlement Action Plan dated December 28, 2006 prepared 
for Laiwu Sub-project under Part A of the Project; which plans set out the 
principles and procedures governing the acquisition of land and other assets, and 
the resettlement, compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons on 
account of the execution of Part A of the Project, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plans, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the prior agreement of the Bank; and 
“Resettlement Action Plan” means any of the Resettlement Action Plans. 
 
13. 
“Respective Parts of the Project” means in respect of:  
 
(a) 
Shandong Luneng Development Group Limited Liability Company: the 
Sub-project at the Huangtai heat and power plant  (“Huangtai Sub-
project”) and the Yantai Bajiao heat and power plant (“Yantai Bajiao Sub-
project”). 
 
(b) 
Shandong Laiwu Luneng Heat and Power Limited Liability Company: the 
Sub-project at the Laiwu heat and power plant (“Laiwu Sub-project”). 
 
(c) 
Shandong Lubei Power Limited Liability Company: the Sub-project at the 
Lubei heat and power plant (“Lubei Sub-project”). 
 
14. 
“Shandong Laiwu Luneng Heat and Power Limited Liability Company” means 
the  limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter 
dated June 29, 2003, and to Business License No. 3712001870521 dated  
June 29, 2003, issued by Laiwu City Industry and Commerce Administrative 
Bureau, and any successor thereto.
 
15. 
“Shandong Lubei Power Limited Liability Company” means the limited liability 
company established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
September 26, 2003, and to Business License No. 372324800504 dated 
September 26, 2003, issued by Wudi County Industry and Commerce 
Administrative Bureau, and any successor thereto.
 
16. 
“Shandong Luneng Development Group Limited Liability Company” means the 
limited liability company established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated 
April 21, 2006, and to Business License No. 8700001801633 dated 
 
April 21, 2006, issued by Jinan City Industry and Commerce Administrative 
Bureau, and any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“SPEPB” means Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau and any 
successor thereto. 
 
18. 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the agreements to be entered 
into between the Project Implementing Entity, and each Project Company 
pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and supplements to said agreements; and a “Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement” means, individually, any of said Subsidiary Loan Agreements. 
 
19.
 
“Sub-projects” means collectively, the sub-projects carried out under Part A of 
Project, including Huangtai Sub-project, Laiwu Sub-project, Lubei Sub-project, 
and Yantai Bajiao Sub-project, and the term “Sub-project” means any of the Sub-
projects. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Loans of the Bank, dated  
July 1, 2005 (as amended through February 12, 2008) are as follows: 
 
1. 
The first paragraph under Section 7.02 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
If any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this Section occurs 
and is continuing, the Bank may, by notice to the Loan Parties, suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account. 
Such suspension shall continue until the event (or events) which gave rise to the 
suspension has (or have) ceased to exist, unless the Bank has notified the Loan 
Parties that such right to make withdrawals has been restored.” 
 
2. 
Paragraphs (c) and (l) under Section 7.02 are deleted in their entirety and 
paragraphs (d) through (m) under Section 7.02 are re-numbered accordingly. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. 
Paragraph (c) under Section 7.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c)  
Fraud; Corruption; Collusion; Coercion. 
At any time, the Bank:  
(i) determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower or the Project Implementing Entity (or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation; and (ii) establishes the amount of 
expenditures under such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.” 
 
4. 
Paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) under Section 7.06 are modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) Co-financing
.
The event specified in sub-paragraph (g)(ii)(B) of 
 
Section 7.02 has occurred, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g)(iii) of that 
Section. 
 
(d) 
Assignment of Obligations
;
Disposition of Assets. 
Any event specified in 
paragraph (h) of Section 7.02 has occurred. 
 
(e) 
Condition of Borrower or Project Implementing Entity
.
Any event 
specified in sub-paragraph (j)(ii), (j)(iii), (j)(iv) or (j)(v) of Section 7.02 has 
occurred.” 
 
5. 
Paragraphs 3, 15, 16, 17, 18 under Appendix (Definitions) are modified to read 
as follows:  
 
“3.    “Additional Event of Suspension” means any event of suspension specified 
in the Loan Agreement for the purpose of Section 7.02(k).” 
 
“15.   “Co-financier” means the financier (other than the Bank or the 
Association) referred to in Section 7.02(g) providing the Co-financing. If the 
Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financier, “Co-financier” refers 
separately to each of such financiers.” 
 
“16.   “Co-financing” means the financing referred to in Section 7.02(g) and 
specified in the Loan Agreement provided or to be provided for the Project by the 
Co-financier. If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such financing, 
“Co-financing” refers separately to each of such financings.” 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
“17. 
Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
 
Section 7.02(g) providing for the Co-financing.” 
 
“18.     Co-financing Deadline” means the date referred to in Section 7.02(g)(i) 
and specified in the Loan Agreement by which the Co-financing Agreement is to 
become effective.  If the Loan Agreement specifies more than one such date, 
“Co-financing Deadline” refers separately to each of such dates.” 
 
