Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7531-CN 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Shandong Power Plant Flue Gas Desulphurization Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
SHANDONG PROVINCE 
 
Dated July 17, 2008 
 
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 17, 2008, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and SHANDONG 
PROVINCE (“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with 
the Loan Agreement of same date between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
(“Borrower”) and the Bank (“Loan Agreement”).  The Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II – PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall: (a) carry out, and 
cause the Project Companies to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions; and (b) provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, 
the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is Governor or a Vice 
Governor of Shandong Province. 
 
3.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Address is: 
 
Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau 
No. 3 Jida Road 
Jinan, Shandong Province 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
86-531-82920751 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCITON AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ David Dollar  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
SHANDONG PROVINCE 
 
By  
/s/ Li Zhaoqian 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project  
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
Project Management 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain, and cause to be maintained, for 
purposes of carrying out the Project, the following organizations, with terms of 
reference, composition, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Bank, 
throughout the period of implementation of the Project:  
 
(a) 
the Project Leading Group established at the provincial level, chaired by 
a
Vice Governor of Shandong to be responsible for providing overall 
guidance and coordination for the Project implementation; and   
 
(b) 
the Project Management Office to be responsible for coordinating the 
implementation of Part A of the Project and implementing Part B of the 
Project.  
 
Resettlement and Environment Protection  
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
take, and shall cause the Project Companies to take, all necessary actions 
to minimize to the extent possible any involuntary loss by persons of 
shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets or income or 
means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently in carrying out Part A 
of the Project;  
 
(b) 
for this purpose and prior to the commencement of any civil works under 
Part A of the Project, implement, and cause the Project Companies, to 
implement its respective Resettlement Action Plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(c) 
provide, and cause each Project Company to provide, to the Bank for its 
prior concurrence any proposed modification or waiver of its respective 
Resettlement Action Plan, prior to putting into effect such modification 
or waiver. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, and shall cause the Project Companies to: 
 
(a) 
implement its respective Environmental Management Plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank and designed to ensure that the Project is 
Page  5
-
4
-
implemented in accordance with sound environmental standards and 
practices; and  
 
(b) 
provide to the Bank for its prior concurrence any proposed modification 
or waiver of its respective Environmental Management Plan, or any 
provisions thereof, prior to putting into effect such modification or 
waiver. 
 
4. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall, and shall cause the Project Companies to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, the 
implementation of its respective Environmental Management Plan and its 
respective Resettlement Action Plan, the achievement of the objectives 
of said Plans including the engagement of experienced and qualified 
independent monitoring agencies acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank by February 28 each year, commencing February 28, 2009, 
annual reports of the results of such monitoring and evaluation activities, 
together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into such Plans in 
order to achieve their respective objectives; and  
 
(c) 
introduce such revisions into said Plans as shall have been agreed with 
the Bank. 
 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
5. 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall relend the portions of the proceeds 
of the Loan, which was allocated to it pursuant to paragraph 1 of  
Section I of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement to each of the Project 
Companies under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between 
the Project Implementing Entity and said Project Company for the 
purposes of carrying out each 
Project Company’s Respective Parts of the 
Project  (“Subsidiary Loan Agreement”): (i) on the principal terms set 
forth in paragraphs 1 through 3 of Annex A to this Schedule; and 
(ii) under conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in paragraphs 4 
through 9 of the Annex A to this Schedule.  
 
(b) 
The Project Implementing Entity shall exercise its rights under each 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower, the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity
 
and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Borrower and the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall not 
Page  6
-
5
-
assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
of its provisions. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of  
Section 5.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set 
forth in Annex B to this Schedule.  Each such Project Report shall cover the 
period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank by 
February 28 and August 31 each year, starting August 31, 2008.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system 
and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect 
the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part B of this Section, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Project 
Report not later than one (1) month after the end of each calendar semester, 
interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the calendar semester, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  Each audit 
of these financial statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the 
Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period 
shall be furnished to the Borrower and the Bank not later than six (6) months 
after the end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ANNEX A 
to  
SCHEDULE 
 
Principal Terms and Conditions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
 
For the purposes of paragraph 5 of the Schedule to this Agreement: (a) the terms 
of availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth in paragraphs 1 through 3 of 
this Annex; and (b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be entered into on the 
conditions set forth in paragraphs 4 through 9 of this Annex. 
 
Terms of Availability 
 
1. 
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan made by the Project Implementing 
Entity to each of the Project Companies, shall be the amount equivalent in Dollars 
(on the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of the 
Project Company’s 
Respective Parts of the Project. 
 
2. 
Each Project Company shall repay: (a) such principal amount; and (b) an amount 
equal to the fee pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement, of such 
principal amount, over a period of not more than seventeen (17) years, inclusive 
of a grace period of four (4) years.  
 
3. 
Each Project Company shall pay interest on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not less than the rate of 
interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.04 of the 
Loan Agreement.  
 
Conditions 
 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal 
conditions: 
 
4. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to: (a) carry out its Respective Parts of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
management, financial, engineering and public utility practices and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose; and (b) 
without limitation on the foregoing, take all measures necessary to ensure that its 
Respective Parts of the Project shall be implemented in accordance with its 
respective  Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
5. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to procure the goods, works and 
consultants
’
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the Loan 
Agreement, and utilize such goods, works and consultants’ services exclusively 
in the carrying out of their Respective Parts of the Project.  
 
6. 
Each Project Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice, including, without limitation, such 
insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery 
of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable to replace 
or repair such goods. 
 
7. 
With respect to its Respective Parts of the Project, each Project Company shall 
undertake to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
progress of its respective Sub-project and the achievement of its 
objectives;  
 
(b) 
maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Sub-project;  
 
(c) 
at the Bank’s or the Borrower’s or the Project Implementing Entity’s
 
request, have such financial statements audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, and promptly furnish the statements as 
so audited to the Borrower, the Bank and the Project Implementing 
Entity;  
 
(d) 
enable the Borrower, the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity
 
to 
inspect the Sub-project, its operation and any relevant records and 
documents; and 
 
(e) 
prepare and furnish to the Borrower, the Bank and the Project 
Implementing Entity
 
all such information as the Borrower or the Bank or 
the Project Implementing Entity
 
shall reasonably request relating to the 
foregoing. 
 
8. 
Each Respective Project Company shall undertake to: 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in 
Annex B of the Schedule to this Agreement the carrying out of its 
Respective Parts of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
Project Implementing Entity for its review, consolidation in the Project 
Reports and submission to the Bank, semi-annual reports integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
clause (i) of this sub-paragraph (e) on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of its Respective Parts of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of each such report. 
 
9. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have the right to suspend or terminate the 
right of its Project Company to the use of the proceeds of the loan made available 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with said Project Company upon failure 
by such Project Company to perform its obligations under the agreement.   
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ANNEX B 
to  
SCHEDULE 
 
Project Performance Indicators 
 
Project Objective 
Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome Information 
The project development 
objective is to reduce SO
2
emissions in the heat and 
power sector and enhance the 
capacity of regulatory 
authorities to monitor and 
enforce compliance with their 
SO
2
emissions reduction 
program in Shandong 
Province 
 
Total SO
2
emissions in 
Shandong reduced 
 
Gauge the effectiveness of 
Shandong’s SO
2
control program 
 
Intermediate Results 
One per Component 
Results Indicators for Each 
Component 
Use of Results Monitoring 
Part A:
 Installation of FGD 
for four (4) Sub-projects  
 
Installation of FGDs which 
perform according to design 
specifications and are 
completed within the allocated 
budget and projected schedule; 
removal efficiency and SO
2
emission rate (mg/Nm
3
)
Monitoring of implementation 
progress and action plan to address 
possible delay and performance 
deficiency 
 
Timely disbursement of the 
Bank loan proceeds 
 
Implementation delays of project
 
Part B: 
Technical Assistance 
(TA) to strengthen the 
technical and institutional 
capacity of SPEPB to 
implement SO
2
emission 
reduction
 
Strengthen SPEPB’s capacity 
in SO
2
control 
 
Policies, rules, procedures and 
standards on SO
2
control and 
SO
2
emissions monitoring 
issued and implemented 
 
Progress on the issuing of policies, 
rules, procedures and standards on 
SO
2
control and SO
2
emissions 
monitoring will flag how well SPEPB 
is institutionally positioned to 
implement its SO
2
control program. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Intermediate Results 
One per Component 
Results Indicators for Each 
Component 
Use of Results Monitoring 
Improve emission monitoring 
to facilitate SO
2
control 
 
Installation and successful 
performance of Continuous 
Emissions Monitors (CEMs) 
including data transfer to the 
monitoring center from all 
sites which installed FGDs 
 
The rate of installation and successful 
performance of CEMs in heat and 
power plants will indicate how well 
SO
2
emissions in the heat and power 
sector can be monitored and thus 
controlled. 
Strengthen enforcement of 
regulations to ensure 
compliance 
 
Full collection of SO
2
emission 
fee according to requirements 
and noncompliance with 
emission standards penalized 
 
Percentage of fee collection for SO
2
emissions and noncompliance will 
indicate to what extent regulation 
enforceability needs further 
improvement 
 
