Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/25/2007 
Report No.:  AC2552
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  China 
Project ID:  P093882 
Project Name:  Shandong Flue Gas Desulfurization 
Task Team Leader:  Jianping Zhao 
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 30, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: August 16, 2007 
Managing Unit:  EASTE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Power (100%) 
Theme:  Pollution management and environmental health (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
70.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
23.46 
 
Local Sources of Borrowing Country 
16.50 
 Sub-borrower(s) 
0.00
39.96 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective of the proposed project is to reduce SO2 emissions in the heat 
and power sector and enhance the capacity of regulatory authorities to monitor and 
enforce compliance with their SO2 emissions reduction program.   
 
3. Project Description 
Investment Component  
 
The investment component is to finance the installation of FGD facilities in six coal-
fired heat and power plants that are currently operating or are under/planned for 
construction. A description of each heat and power plant is given below.  
 
Huangtai Heat and Power Plant, located in Jinan City, currently has seven boilers and 
eight generators with a total capacity of 1,005 MW. It supplies electric power to the 
Shandong power grid and heat to local district heating grid of the Jinan city. Of these 
plants, 660 MW are already retrofitted with FGD. Two new 300 MW units are under 
Page  2
preparation for construction so as to shut down the remaining 345 MW of capacity as 
well as more than 80 small heat-only boilers spreaded across Jinan city.  
 
The proposed sub-project will finance the installation of wet lime/limestone scrubbers to 
the two new 300MW units. The FGD system consists of mainly the absorbent fabrication 
and supply system, the SO2 absorb system, flue gas system, the gypsum processing 
system, the water supply system, electric system and control system. The FGD system 
will be located behind the boiler house of the power plant. Each boiler will be equipped 
with a separate pressurizing fan, an absorber tower and a heat exchanger. The two boilers 
will share the lime making, gypsum dewatering and oxygen supply facilities.  
 
The SO2 absorb system is the core of the FGD facility. It consists of an absorber, defog, 
circulating pump, oxidizing fan etc. The SO2 in the flue gas reacts with CaCO3 in the 
lime and form gypsum crystal after forced oxidization at the bottom of the absorber 
tower. The control system continuously monitors the gas flue, SO2 and O2 at the 
entrance and exit of FGD.  
 
Laiwu Heat and Power Plant, located 9 km from the Laiwu Municipality, currently 
consists of 3 X 125 MW coal-fired units. is currently under preparation for construction. 
The power plant is owned by Shandong Luneng Group. The three existing units are being 
retrofitted with FGD facility. Two new 300 MW coal-fired units are under preparation for 
construction. It is planned to supply heat to meet the growing needs in Laiwu 
Municipality and power to the Shandong power grid.  
 
The proposed sub-project will finance the installation of wet lime/limestone scrubbers to 
the two new 300MW units.  
 
Yantai Baijao Heat and Power Plant, located in the economic development zone of the 
Yantai Municipality, consists of two new 300 MW coal-fired units under preparation for 
construction. The power plant is owned by Shandong Luneng Group. The plant is 
planned to supply heat to the residential, commercial and industrial consumers in the 
economic zone and power to the Shandong grid. The proposed sub-project will finance 
the installation of wet lime/limestone scrubbers to the two 300MW units. The 
configuration of the FGD system is similar to the FGD system proposed for Huangtai as 
described above.  
 
Lubei Heat and Power Plant, located in Wudi County of Binzhou Municipality, consists 
of 2 x 300 MW heat and power units. The power plant is owned by Shandong Lubei 
Enterprise Group. The power plant is currently under construction. The first 300 MW 
unit is scheduled to be commissioned in November 2007 and the second unit in May 
2008. The proposed sub-project will finance the retrofitting of wet lime/limestone 
scrubbers to the two 300MW units. The configuration of the FGD system is similar to the 
FGD system proposed for Huangtai described above.  
 
Zhenghe Subproject, sponsored by Zhenghe Group Company that currently owns two 
heat and power plants to supply heat and steam to the county economic development 
zone and urban area.  The two plants currently operate five boilers (3 units @ 35 TPH 
Page  3
and 2 units @ 75 TPH). Two new boilers each at 130 TPH are currently planned at a new 
location within the plant complex to substitute 113 existing small boilers in the county 
and meet the growing heating needs.  The proposed project will include retrofitting the 
five existing boilers with wet limestone scrubbers and installing wet limestone scrubbers 
on the two new boilers.  
 
Xintai Subproject, sponsored by Xinwen Mine Group that currently owns and operates 
two heat and power plants to burn coal sludge from coal washery. The two plants 
currently operate four boilers (3 units @ 75 TPH and one unit @ 130 TPH). Two new 
boilers at 480 THP are currently planned at a new location. The proposed new project 
will burn low grade coal and will supply power and heat to the mining complex. The 
proposed subproject will finance the retrofitting of one 130 t/h boiler, 3x75 t/h boilers 
with semi-dry FGD, and the installation of wet lime/limestone scrubber for the 2x480 
TPH CFB boilers heat and power plant (2x150 MW) under preparation for construction.  
 
Technical Assistance Component  
 
(a) 
The technical assistance component is intended to strengthen the technical and 
institutional capacity related to SO2 emission control and reduction, particularly in the 
following areas: emission control planning, emission monitoring and regulation 
enforcement, technical and managerial training, the installation of on-line monitoring 
equipment. It includes both studies and capacity building activities.  
 
Capacity Building for SO2 Control: This subcomponent comprises the following two 
activities: (a) develop rules, procedures and standards on installation, operation & 
maintenance of, and data transmission from continuous emission monitors (CEMs); (b) 
review the needs and make recommendations to upgrade the data information and 
transmission system, speed up and enforce the installation of CEMs and the associated 
facilities in each power plant (to link with and transfer data to SPEPB?s data system and 
information centers).  
 
Policy and Regulation Development: While it is recognized that SO2 emission control 
in the power sector by installing FGDs in each power plant would be effective, it is 
equally important that Shandong Provincial Government take parallel actions to enhance 
and optimize its long-term policy effectiveness and sophistication in planning and 
implementing compliance program, designing and implementing market-based policies 
and instruments (e.g., emission trading) as well as enhancing environmental regulation 
compliance over power and non-power sectors.  With regard to strategy and policy, 
SPEPB should optimize the design of SO2 control program to reflect the cost-
effectiveness (RMB/ton of pollutant removed) for each possible environmental control 
project.  Such optimization would achieve the same environmental benefit at a reduced 
compliance cost or higher environmental benefit (lower pollution) at the same cost.  Also, 
market-based instruments would be used to optimize the compliance costs.  
 
Staff and Managerial Training: Extensive training programs will be implemented to 
enhance the knowledge and capacity of government officials as well as key coal 
Page  4
consumers on SO2 control policy and implementation. Areas of training would include: 
emission monitoring, data collection and analysis, CEM calibration and maintenance, and 
regulation enforcement, as well as operation & maintenance of SO2 emission equipment. 
Technical training activity will be targeted to SPEPB and local EPBs staff as well as 
power plant FGD operators.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The proposed six sub-projects are located in different parts of Shandong Province.  The 
specific locations are stated above in the Project Description section.  
 
Social Impact: Out of the six subprojects, three will involve land acquisition and 
resettlement. A total of 112.9 ha of land area (including 71% farmland) will be acquired 
for the three sub-projects. Along with land acquisition, a total of 274 households and 743 
persons will be physically relocated. Following national laws and regulations, appropriate 
compensations will be provided for acquired lands and lost properties, based on 
replacement values. The related subproject companies have developed their own 
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), which have been reviewed by the Bank.  
 
In terms of economic rehabilitation, different approaches will be adopted for different 
subprojects. For Xintai, all land loss farmers will be provided replacement farmland. In 
Yantai, following local policies all land loss farmers will be converted into non-farm 
status and provided with retirement plan, medical insurance, and job training and 
allocation. In Laiwu, the basic approach is to expand non-farm employment for most 
villagers and provide special assistance to the vulnerable so that their basic livelihood 
could be restored or improved.  
 
The resettlement implementation will be carried out by subproject companies along with 
relevant city government agencies. To ensure successful resettlement implementation, a 
Resettlement Leading Group (RLG) will be established in each project city, under which 
a
resettlement unit will be set up in each subproject company and will be responsible for 
planning and implementing the RAP. In the process of resettlement planning extensive 
consultations have been organized by the subproject companies. More efforts will be 
made during the resettlement implementation to encourage further participation by the 
resettlers. Following both Chinese law and the World Bank policy, the subproject 
companies will disclose the RAPs prior to implementation, which will inform the 
affected people about their impacts, compensation policies, rehabilitation options, and 
grievance procedure. To ensure smooth implementation of the resettlement and 
restoration of resettlers? livelihood, both internal monitoring and external monitoring & 
evaluation will be carried out during the resettlement implementation.  
 
Environmental Impact:  The project is in full compliance with all environmental 
regulations and procedures of the Peoples Republic of China, Shandong Province and the 
Bank. In accordance with the Bank policies and procedures for environmental assessment 
(EA, OP/BP/GP 4.01) the project has been assigned Category B. To meet Chinese 
requirements, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) reports were prepared for each 
Page  5
subproject either for the FGD unit alone or for the combined FGD unit and associated 
boiler(s).  To meet the Bank requirements, Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) 
were prepared for each FGD subproject.  English language versions of the EMPs were 
received by the World Bank on November 18 and disclosed in the Infoshop on November 
22, 2006).  
 
The project is expected to provide overall positive environmental impacts with 
potentially minor negative impacts. Installation of FGD systems on coal-fired boilers will 
result in significant reductions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and dust emissions. In turn these 
reductions are likely to lead to overall improvements in air quality for these pollutants. 
The Government has established that both SO2 and dust are in serious violation of 
Chinese air quality standards in many regions of Shandong Province. The potential 
negative impacts are primarily associated with the disposal of the gypsum by-product that 
is the chief component of the spent sorbent. Generally, this material will be utilized by 
construction industries. The amount will depend on its? physical and chemical quality 
and market demand. Any excess material will be disposed of in accordance with Chinese 
regulations at sites officially approved by either Provincial and/or local environmental 
authorities. The material is not hazardous  
 
During construction, potential adverse impacts are of short duration, limited in areal 
extent and wholly reversible. They are primarily associated with the movement of men, 
machinery and materials (dust, noise, waste construction materials etc.). Mitigation 
measures are standard procedures constituting good engineering and construction 
practice.  
 
E.  Borrower's Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies  
 
The Shandong provincial government will be the borrower of the Bank's loan proceeds. 
The Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (SPEPB) has been designated 
as the coordinating agency and has established a PMO. Shandong as a whole appears to 
have strong capacity to implement projects including those financed by the Bank.  
SPEPB's capacity is less well tested.  However, each of the subproject companies has 
extensive experience of power plant construction and operations. EIAs are prepared by 
specialized institutes and approved by relevant Government authorities.  EMPs and RAPs 
have been prepared by the subproject companies, which the Bank has reviewed and found 
in good quality.  
 
To ensure successful resettlement implementation, a Resettlement Leading Group will 
be established in each subproject city.  Each subproject company will set up a 
resettlement unit.  Internal and external monitoring and evaluation mechanisms will also 
be in place.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Bernard Baratz (EASTE) 
Mr Youxuan Zhu (EASTE) 
 
Page  6
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The project is expected to provide overall positive environmental impacts with 
potentially minor negative impacts. Installation of FGD systems on coal-fired boilers will 
result in significant reductions of sulfur dioxide (SO2) and dust emissions. In turn these 
reductions are likely to lead to overall improvements in air quality for these pollutants. 
The Government has established that both SO2 and dust are in serious violation of 
Chinese air quality standards in many regions of Shandong Province. The potential 
negative impacts are primarily associated with the disposal of the gypsum by-product that 
is the chief component of the spent sorbent. Generally, this material will be utilized by 
construction industries. The amount will depend on its? physical and chemical quality 
and market demand. Any excess material will be disposed of in accordance with Chinese 
regulations at sites officially approved by either Provincial and/or local environmental 
authorities. The material is not hazardous.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
During construction, potential adverse impacts are of short duration, limited in areal 
extent and wholly reversible. They are primarily associated with the movement of men, 
machinery and materials (dust, noise, waste construction materials etc.). Mitigation 
measures are standard procedures constituting good engineering and construction 
practice.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Shandong as a whole appears to have strong capacity to implement projects including 
those financed by the Bank.  SPEPB's capacity is less well tested.  However, each of the 
Page  7
subproject companies has extensive experience of power plant construction and 
operations. EIAs are prepared by specialized institutes and approved by relevant 
Government authorities.  EMPs and RAPs have been prepared by the subproject 
companies, which the Bank has reviewed and found in good quality.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Social impact  
 
Out of the six subprojects, three will involve land acquisition and 
resettlement.Following national laws and regulations, appropriate compensations will be 
provided for acquired lands and lost properties, based on replacement values. The related 
subproject companies have developed and disclosed their own Resettlement Action Plans 
(RAP), which have been reviewed by the Bank.  
 
Economic rehabilitation  
 
Different approaches will be adopted for different subprojects. For Xintai, all land loss 
farmers will be provided replacement farmland. In Yantai, following local policies all 
land loss farmers will be converted into non-farm status and provided with retirement 
plan, medical insurance, and job training and allocation. In Laiwu, the basic approach is 
to expand non-farm employment for most villagers and provide special assistance to the 
vulnerable so that their basic livelihood could be restored or improved.  
 
Affected people have been widely consulted either via questionaire or via public 
meetings nearby the affected villages, schools and power plants.  
 
All six EMPs and RAPs have been disclosed to the public in October 2006.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/30/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/30/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/22/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/30/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/30/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
11/22/2006 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  8
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
No 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  9
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jianping Zhao 
04/11/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr John Morton 
04/22/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
Mr Chaohua Zhang 
04/24/2007 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Panneer Selvam Lakshminarayanan 
04/27/2007 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Junhui Wu 
05/24/2007 
Comments:   
