                                  The World Bank

                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                    ReportNo: 38067-CN




                        PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          ONA

                                  PROPOSEDLOAN

                      INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$50MILLION

                                         TO THE

                          PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOF CHINA

                                         FORA

     SHANDONGPOWERPLANT FLUE GAS DESULFURIZATIONPROJECT


                                     April 18, 2008




Chinaand MongoliaSustainable DevelopmentUnit
East Asia and PacificRegion


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout
World Bankauthorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange RateEffectiveDecember 30, 2007)
                             Currency Unit = RMB/yuan
                                     Y7.30 = US$l

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1  - December31

                               UNITS OF MEASURE

dB     Decibel                               MWh     Megawatt-hour
GW     Gigawatt                              MWth    Megawatt-thermal
GWh    Gigawatt-hour                         mu      15 mu = 1ha
ha     Hectare                               Nm3     Normal cubic meter
kg     Kilogram                              PMlO    Particulate matter that is 10
kJ     Kilojoule                                     micrometers in diameter
km2    SquareKilometer                       PM2.5   Particulatematter that is 2.5
kWh    Kilowatt-hour                                 micrometersor smaller in diameter
Ib.    Pound                                 t/a     Ton per year
mz     SquareMeter                           till    Ton per hour
m3     Cubic Meter                           Tcal    Tera-calorie
m3d    Cubic MetersPer Day                   ton-km  Ton-kilometer
MBtu   Million BritishThermal Units          tPd     Tons per day
Mtce   Million Tons of Coal Equivalent       TPH     Total petroleum hydrocarbons
Mcal   Mega-Calorie                          TWh     Terawatt-hour
mg     Milligram
MW     Megawatt
MWe    Megawatt-Electrical

                      ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

 AAOV      Annual Average Output Value        FGD       FlueGasDesulfurization
 ADB       Asian DevelopmentBank              FLI       FurnaceLimestoneInjection
 APL       Adaptable ProgramLoan              FMR       FinancialManagementReport
 CaO       CalciumOxide                       FMS       FinancialManagementSystem
 CaC03     CalciumCarbonate                   FRR       FinancialRate of Return
 CEM       ContinuousEmissionMonitor          FY        FiscalYear
 CFB       CirculatedFluidizedBed             GDP       Gross Domestic Product
 CNAO      ChinaNationalAudit Office          GGH       Gas-Gas Heater
 CNY
 co        Chinese Yuan                       GHG       Greenhouse Gas
           CarbonMonoxide                     GOC       Governmentof China
 CPS       Country Partnership Strategy       ICR       ImplementationCompletion
 CRESP     China RenewableEnergy                        and ResultsReport
           Scale-upProgram                    IFC       InternationalFinance
 DA        DesignatedAccount                            Corporation
 DO        DevelopmentObjective               IP        ImplementationProgress
 EA        EnvironmentalAssessment            KPI       Key PerformanceIndicator
 EIA       EnvironmentalImpact                LIMB      LimestoneInjection Modified
           Assessment                                   Burners
EMP        EnvironmentalManagement            M&E       Monitoringand Evaluation
           Plan                               MOF       Ministry of Finance
EPA        EnvironmentalProtection            NDRC      NationalDevelopmentand
           Agency                                       ReformCommission
ERR        Economic Rate of Return                      NitrogenOxide

                                                                    FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY



             NPC           NationalPeople's Congress         SOE           Statement of Expenditure
             NPV           Net PresentValue                  SPDRC         Shandong Provincial
             0 3           Ozone                                           Developmentand Reform
             O&M           Operation and Maintenance                       Commission
             PDO           Project DevelopmentObjective      SPEPB         Shandong Provincial
             PH            PotentialofHydrogen                             EnvironmentalProtection
             PIE           Project ImplementingEntity                      Bureau
             PLG           Project LeadingGroup              SPFB          Shandong ProvincialFinance
             PM            Particulate Matter                              Bureau
             PMO           Project ManagementOffice          SPG           Shandong Provincial
             RAP           ResettlementAction Plan                         Government
             RLG           ResettlementLeadingGroup          TA            TechnicalAssistance
             SBD           StandardBiddingDocuments          TSP           Total SuspendedParticulate
             SEPA          State EnvironmentalProtection     TTL           Task Team Leader
                           Administration                    UNDB          UnitedNationsDevelopment
             SIL           SpecificInvestmentLoan                          Business
             so2           Sulfur Dioxide                    VAT           Value Added Tax




                                           Vice President: James W. Adams
                                        Country Director: David Dollar
                                          Sector Manager: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                                       Task Team Leader: Jianping Zhao




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                CHINA

       SHANDONGPOWERPLANT FLUEGAS DESULFURIZATIONPROJECT

                                             TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                         Page No    .
A.    STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                 .............................................................................. 1
  1.   Countryand Sector Issues               .......................................................................................               1
  2                                                                                                                                                 3
  3 .. Rationalefor BankInvolvement                       .............................................................................
       Higher-LevelObjectivesto Whichthe ProjectContributes...................................                                                      3
B.    PROJECTDESCRIPTION              ............................................................................................................  4
  1                                                                                                                                                 4
  2 .. LendingInstrument           .................................................................................................
       ProjectDevelopmentObjective andKey Indicators                                           ...............................................      4
  3    Project Components           ................................................................................................                4
  4 .. LessonsLearnedand Reflectedinthe ProjectDesign............................................                                                   5
                                                                                                                                                    6
C.5. IMPLEMENTATION.....................................................................................................................
       AlternativesConsidered and Reasonsfor Rejection...............................................
                                                                                                                                                    6
  1 .  Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements                                       ....................................................       6
  2.   Monitoringand Evaluationof Outcomes and Results                                            ............................................      7
  3 .  Sustainability    ...........................................................................................................                8
  4.   Critical Risksand PossibleControversialAspects                                       ................................................. 9
  5 .  Loanand Credit Conditionsand Covenants                                   .........................................................          10
D.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY ..........................................................................................................                 10
  1.   Economicand FinancialAnalyses ........................................................................                                      10
  2    Technical...............................................................................................................                    12
  3    Fiduciary  ...............................................................................................................                  12
  4... Social.....................................................................................................................                 13
  5.   Environment      ..........................................................................................................                 14
  6.   SafeguardPolicies         .................................................................................................                 14
  7.   PolicyExceptionsand Readiness                       ..........................................................................              15

  TECHNICAL ANNEXES

Annex 1: Country and Sector Background                     .......................................................................    16
Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and OtherAgencies ................. 21
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring                         ..................................................................    22
Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription                 .............................................................................     24
Annex 5: ProjectCosts     ......................................................................................................      33
Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                    ..........................................................................     34
Annex 7 FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
       .                                                                                            ................................. 36
Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements...............................................................................                       44
Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis.....................................................................                           49
Annex 1OA: SafeguardPolicy Issues(Resettlement Aspects)                                   ..........................................  58
Annex 10B: SafeguardPolicy Issues(Environment)                             .......................................................    66
Annex 11: ProjectProcessing           ...........................................................................................     80
Annex 12: Documents inthe ProjectFile                   .........................................................................     81
Annex 13: Statement ofLoans and Credits......................................................................                         82
Annex 14: Country at a Glance.........................................................................................                87
Annex 15: Map  .................................................................................................................      89

                                       CHINA
     SHANDONG POWER PLANT FLUEGAS DESULFURIZATION PROJECT

                       PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                            East Asia andPacific Region

                  China and Mongolia SustainableDevelopment Unit

Date: April 18, 2008                        Team Leader: Jianping Zhao
Country Director: DavidDollar               Sectors: Power (100%)
Sector ManagerDirector: EdeJorge Ijjasz-    Themes: Pollution managementand
Vasquez                                     environmental health (P)
Project ID:PO93882                          Environmental screeningcategory: B
Lending instrument:Specific Investment      Safeguard screeningcategory: S2
Loan
                               Project Financing Data:
ElLoan    0 Credit    0 Grant   0 Guarantee     0 Other:




                  Source                       Local        Foreign       Total
Borrower                                       17.23         0.00         17.23
IBRD                                            0.00        50.00         50.00
Others                                         18.91         0.00         18.91
Total                                          36.14        50.00         86.14




FY                2007          2008           2009          2010          2011
Annual             -             13-90           25.50         7.95          2.65
Cumulative         -             13.90           39.40       47.35         50.00

Doesthe project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant         0 Yes ElNo
respects?Re$ PADA.3
Doesthe project require any exceptions from Bank policies? Re$ PAD         0 Yes ElNo
D.7
Have these been approvedby Bank management?                                O Y e s O N o
I s approval for any policy exception sought fkom the Board?               O Y e s H N o
Doesthe project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?  HYes 0 No
Re$ PAD C.5
Doesthe project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for               ElYes O N o
implementation?Re$ PAD D.7
Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

The development objective o fthe proposedproject is to reduce SO2 emissions inthe heat
and power sector and enhance the capacity o fregulatory authorities to monitor and
enforce compliance with their SO2 emissions reduction program.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a,
TechnicalAnnex 4

(a) Investment Component, to finance the installation o f FGDfacilities at four coal-fired
heat and power plants; and (b) Technical Assistance Component, to strengthen the
technical and institutional capacity relatedto SO2 emission control and reduction in
Shandong.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
     0  Environmental Assessment (OPBP/GP 4.0 1)
     0  Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12)
Significant, nonstandard conditions, if any, for:
Re$ PAD C.5
Board presentation: None

Loadcredit effectiveness: None

Covenants applicable to project implementation: None

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1.      Country and Sector Issues

1.      Since 1980, China's gross domestic product (GDP) has increased at an annual
average rate of 9 percent, the highest sustained growth of any country ever. To support
such high economic growth, China's primary commercial energy consumption has more
than tripled from 600 million tons of coal equivalent (Mtce) in 1980to about 2,220 Mtce
in 2005. All forecasts indicate that China's economy will continue to expand at a
relatively high rate for the coming decade. Accordingly, energy consumption will
continue to grow rapidly evenwith increasedand sustainedenergy efficiency efforts.

2.      China's rising energy demand has been met largely by coal from domestic
sources. Coal consumption has increasedfrom 1.08 billion tons in 1980to 2.1 billion tons
in 2005. More than 50 percent of the coal consumed in 2005 was used for electricity
generation. China's electricity generation capacity and electricity generation had reached
a level of 508 GW and 2,475 TWh, respectively, in 2005. O f this, coal-based generation
capacity and electricity generation accounted for 69 percent and 80 percent, respectively.
Even with an aggressive fuel diversification policy to develop nuclear power,
hydropower, gas, and other renewable energy, coal will continue to be the dominant
energy source for the foreseeable future, and at least half of the future additions to the
power generation capacity will be coal based. The electricity generation capacity is
projected to increase to more than 1,100 GW by 2020, of which more than 700 GW
would be coal-based.

3.      The rapid expansion of the power generation system and its primary reliance on
coal has contributed to China's severe air pollution. Sulfur dioxide (SO$ is the main
pollutant caused by coal combustion and can lead to various environmental problems,
including acid rain, urban SO2 pollution, and local and regional pollution with PM2.5
particles as the main factors. These pollutants can have a serious impact on humanhealth,
buildings, cultural heritage, and crop production. According to reports released by the
State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA), a total of 25.5 million tons of
SO2 was released in 2005, of which more than 90 percent was contributed by coal
combustion. It is estimated that air pollution in major urban areas has contributed to
178,000 premature deaths and 346,000 respiratory hospital admissions per year, to which
SO2 is a major contributor. Acid rain has occurred in more than half of China's 696 cities.
About one-third of China's territory, mainly the densely populated and industrial south,
has been affected by acid rain. The direct economic losses from air pollution through
reduction of timber growth and crop production alone are estimated to be more than
US$12.5 billion annually.

4.      Shandong Province ranks second among all Chinese provinces in coal
consumption (159 million tons of coal in 2004) and produces the highest amount of SO2
emissions. Coal accounted for 82 percent of the primary energy consumption in the
province, compared to the national average of about 67 percent. Furthermore, Shandong
has limited resources of low-sulfur coal, and under the current supply-constrained



                                            - 1 -

conditions in the coal industry, it cannot obtain sufficient low-sulhr coal from other
sources, even if it is willing to pay a significant premium. Coal-fired power plants
account for 99.7 percent of the 37.6 GW total power capacity, and they consume 51.6
percent of the total coal used by all sectors in Shandong. As a result, they are the main
sources of SO2 emissions. In 2005, SO2 emissions in Shandong Province amounted to
2.03 million tons, of which 1.17 million tons, or 52.4 percent, were contributed by the
power and heat industry.

5.     The Chinese authoritiesare filly aware of the need to address the environmental
problems, and their recent strategy and policy calls for sustainable economic
development proceeding in tandem with environmental protection. Efforts are being
made both to increase the supply of cleaner energy and enhance the efficiency of energy
use. The Government is makingaggressive efforts to diversify its energy sources, which
include an accelerated nuclear power development program, an ambitious gas
development, and a significanthydropowerand renewableenergy development scheme.

6.     However, it is commonly accepted that China has no realistic alternatives to
substantiallyreduce its heavy dependenceon coal as the primary source of energy inthe
short and medium term. Mitigation of the environmental impact caused by coal
consumption is a principal element in its clean air policy. The Government of China
(GOC) has developed National Ambient Air Quality Standards comparable to
international standards.The revisedStandards on Emissionsof Air Pollutantsfrom Coal-
fired Plants are quite stringent, requiring the most recent power plants to limit SO2
emission below 400 mg per Nm3. In addition, the GOC has adopted a classification
commonlyknownas the "Two ControlZones" (acid raincontrolzones and sulfur dioxide
control zones), which cover 1.09 million square kilometers and 61 large cities. The
provinces falling within the two zones are requiredto comply with a SO2 emission cap.
Most recently, the 11* Five-Year Plan approved by the National People's Congress
(NPC) sets a target to reduce the country's SO2 emission by 10 percent from the 2005
level by the year 2010. Accordingly, SEPA has signed agreements with the seven largest
SO2-emitting provinces (including Shandong) and the six major power-generating
companies with specific SO2 emission control targets. In addition, the Government has
providedeconomic incentivesto support and encourage SO2 removal. Power plants with
SO2 control facilities are allowed to increase their electricity sale price by 1.5 fen per
KWh,and the SO2 emissionfee has been increasedto Y 633 per ton. Ifthese policiesare
hlly implemented, the financial benefits from the installationof SO2 control facilities in
increased sales revenues and avoided emissions fees could adequately compensate the
financial costs.

7.     The Shandong Provincial Government (SPG) has embraced the Central
Government's SO2control policies and targets by developingits own even more stringent
SO2 emissioncontroltargets and complianceplan.The SPG's plancalls for an overall20
percent SO2 emission reduction by 2010 on the 2005 emission level. The emission
reductionfor the electric power industry is set to be reduced by 27.9 percent on the 2005
level. However, achievement of these targets represents a tremendous challenge for the
SPG. To achieve these targets, the SPG needs to develop detailed implementationrules



                                            2

and plans, mobilize adequate financing, upgrade environmental monitoring facilities and
information systems, strengthen environmental governance and institutional capacity to
ensure compliance, and create emission certificates and emissionrights trading schemes.

2.       Rationalefor Bank Involvement

8.       Implementation of China's environmental control policies is a huge undertaking
and would require mobilization of financial resources by both the private and public
sectors. Consistentwith the power sector reform program in China, the five large national
power generation companies would undertake SO2 control projects with their own
resources or with commercial financing. However, a large segment o fthe power and heat
sector has boiler unitswith a capacity of less than 1,100 t/h range. These unitsare owned
by provincial and local governments, which have neither the access to commercial
financing nor adequate internally generatedresourcesto finance SO;!control projects. The
Bank and other multilateral financial institutions are called to support this niche segment
ofthe power sector.

9.       The Bank has actively supported China's environmental sustainability objectives
for many years. The most recent Country Partnership Strategy (CPS), approved by the
Board on May 23,2006, focuses on supporting China's efforts to build a people-centered
harmonious society that balances economic development and distributional and
ecological concerns. One important theme of the CPS is to manage resource scarcity and
environmental challenges, especially through the mitigation of air pollution. The
proposed project will directly contribute to achieving these objectives through financing
SO2control facilities and strengtheningeffectiveness ofenvironmental institutions.

10.      The Bank involvement will bring international experience and best practices in
least-cost environmental planning and implementation, and help develop the local
institutional capacity required for monitoring and enforcement of environmental
regulations. Without such capable and effective institutions, there would be a lack of
enforcement and a situation where some plants would comply with the regulations and
others would not. Hence, the Bank involvement is critical for the sustainability of the
GOC's SO2 control strategy.

3.      Higher-Level Objectivesto Which the Project Contributes

11,     The project contributesto the following higher-level objectives:

         (a) To improve air quality by significantly reducing a key air pollutant;
        (b) To    support   environmental     sustainability through     strengthening the
            effectiveness of environmental institutions.




                                              3

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

1.      LendingInstrument

12.    This project will be financedby a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). Other lending
instruments, such as a Sector Loan or an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), were
considered, but rejected as unsuitable for the proposed project, especially because of
constraints in the current project approval system in China. The borrower has expressed
preference for a single-currency, variable-spread loan during project preparation. The
choicewill be confirmedduringthe Bank loannegotiations.

2.      Project DevelopmentObjectiveand Key Indicators

13.     The development objective of the proposed project is to reduce SO2 emissions in
the heat and power sector and enhance the capacity of regulatory authorities to monitor
and enforcecompliancewith their SO2 emissions reductionprogram.Measures of project
output during project implementation include physical progress in procurement,
construction, and commissioning of the Flue Gas Desulhrization (FGD) facilities,
availability and SO2 removal efficiency of the FGD facilities, and progress in
implementation of the Technical Assistance (TA) Component, including Continuous
Emission Monitor (CEM) installation rate and the level of SO2 emission fee collection.
Measures of project outcome are the reduction of SO2 emissions in Shandong Province
and the direct contributionofthe projectto these reductions.

14.    Projectperformanceindicatorsare set out inAnnex 3.

3.     Project Components

15.    The proposedproject, described indetail inAnnex 4, consists ofthe following
two components:

    (a) Technical Assistance Component: To strengthen the technical and institutional
   capacity related to SO2 emission control and reduction in Shandong. It includes (i)
   capacity building and enhancement in emission monitoring and regulation
   enforcement, including upgrading o f online monitoring equipment and information
   systems; (ii)technical and managerial training; and (iii)development of related
   regulations,procedures, and policies.

   (b) Investment Component:To financethe installationof FGD facilities at four coal-
   fired heat and power plants. These plants include existing coal-fired cogeneration
   units and cogenerationunits that are under construction or planned for construction.
   All plantshave selectedto install limestone-gypsumwet FGD technology (see Annex
   4 for a discussionofthe choiceoftechnology).

16.    The total financing required, including interestduring construction, is estimatedat
US$86.14 million equivalent. The financing is expected to be generated from three
sources: (a) an equity contribution from the project sponsors (about 20 percent ofthe total


                                             4

financing required), (b) the Bank loan (about 58 percent), and (c) a local commercial
bank loan(about 22 percent).

17.     The projectcost estimate is summarized inAnnex 5.

4.      LessonsLearned and Reflectedin the Project Design

18.     Successhl implementationo f the SO2 emission reduction program over the long
term requires (a) existence of enforceable environmental regulationsand standards; (b)
adequate institutionalcapacity to implement and enforce laws and regulations; and (c)
adequate policies and schemes to encourage and facilitate investment in SO2 control
facilities or penalizenoncompliance.Administrative means may be essential in the early
stage of the program implementation, but market-orientedapproaches should be adopted
for long-termsustainability.These lessons have been incorporatedintothe project design
and shouldbenefitthe project implementation.

19.     At the project level, the following lessons have been learned from previous Bank-
financed energy projects in China and are incorporated in the design of the proposed
project:

            Consensus among and commitment from all concerned agencies is critical to
            project success.

        0   Adequate and early procurement planning is crucial to rapid and effective
            project implementation.The implementationof some energy projectshas been
            delayed considerably because of slowness in the procurement of major
            equipment. The procurement process for sophisticatedequipment, such as the
            FGDpackage, is complicatedand inherently lengthy;thus, it should be started
            early in the preparationperiod, so that contract awards correspond with loan
            effectiveness. In addition, most procurement delays have arisen from
            problems related to the qualification of bidders and their subcontractors.
            Another difficulty that has resulted in delays in installation relates to
            interfaces between packages. Procurement packaging therefore needs to be
            designedto reducethe number ofpackagesto the minimumpracticallevel.

            Adequate resettlement planning, consultation, and monitoring are vital to
            smooth project implementation.Some recent Bank projectshave experienced
            difficulties during implementationfrom inadequate resettlement planningand
            consultation. These lessons are being brought to bear in the limited
            resettlement associatedwith the project.

            Realistic project cost estimates should be made to avoid large cancellationso f
            the Bank loan proceeds and to minimize negative financial implications for
            the sub-borrowers. Adopting conventional cost estimation methods has
            resulted in overestimated costs on earlier Bank-supported power projects in
            China. Local design institutes and project implementing companies have



                                             5

             conducted careful cost estimates to ensure that the project costs are as close to
             market rates as possible.

5.      AlternativesConsideredand Reasons for Rejection

20.     The alternative scenarios are the continued emission o f SO2 directly into the
atmosphere or the use o f extremely low-sulfur coal all across the province. Although the
first option may avoid the large capital investments associated with SO2 control facilities,
it would continue to incur a huge economic cost on the economy and society as a whole
through production loss and damage to health. In the second option, it is an unrealistic
expectation that all coal would have a sufficiently low sulfur content to meet the
Government's SO2 emission requirements.

21,     An interactive selection process was adopted to ensure project ownership and the
ability o f each subproject to contribute to the project development objective. The criteria
include (a) subprojects that have met, or can reasonably be expected to meet, all the
internal GOC approvals; (b) subprojects that can meet the Bank's safeguard
requirements; and (c) subprojects that meet the technical, economic, and financial
standards. The final selection o f the subprojects reflects the above criteria and also the
reality that these plants have difficulty raising financing locally for SO2 control and that
they do not have adequate self-generated finance.

22.     Extensive analysis o f alternatives was conducted for each proposed subproject. At
the feasibility stage, the design institutes carried out comprehensive analysis to evaluate
all available technologies. The factors taken into account in the selection o f technology
include the capacity o f the power plant; space available to retrofit; sulfur content o f coal
used; emission standards; maturity and efficiency o f a technology; cost o f FGD
installation and operation; availability o f absorbent, utilization, or disposal o f by-
products, among others. The final SO2 control option selected for each subproject
represents the most cost-effective option to meet SO2 emission standards and control
targets, as set by government environmental regulations, in a sound and reliable manner.


C. IMPLEMENTATION

1.      Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements

23.     There will be three levels o f institutional arrangements for project preparation and
implementation:

    0   A Pro-iect Leadinp Group (PLG) has been established at the provincial level. The
        PLG is headed by the Provincial Vice Governor in charge o f environmental
        protection and consists o f members from all the related provincial departments
        (such as development and planning, finance, and environmental protection). The
        PLGwill provide overall guidance and coordination.




                                                6

    0  A Project Management Office (PMO) has been formally set up through a decree
       jointly issued by Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau (SPFB), Shandong
       Provincial Development and Reform Commission (SPDRC), and Shandong
       Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (SPEPB) on March 20, 2006. The
       PMO is hosted by SPEPB and headed by a Deputy Director General of SPEPB.
       Four deputy directors have also been appointed. The routine work of the PMO is
       to be performed by several staff from SPEPB. The PMO will be the focal point
       for the Bank and will provide the necessary coordination for project preparation
       and implementation. The TA component will be implemented mainly by SPEPB,
       assistedby international and local consultants.

    0  Each subproiect suonsor has in place its own institutional arrangements for all
       aspects related to the project preparationand implementation including, technical,
       engineering, environmental, social, financial, and procurement.

24.    Flow of Funds: The Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of China on
the IBRD's standardterms and conditions. The GOC will then onlend the proceeds ofthe
loan to Shandong Province on the same terms and conditions. For the FGD subprojects,
depending on whether the project sponsors are directly affiliated to the Provincial
Government or affiliated to the municipal or county government, Shandong Government
would onlend the respective amounts of the loan to the project sponsors at rate not less
than the interest rate of the Bank loan. All project sponsors would bear the respective
costs of the front-end fee and foreign exchange risks. The loan allocation for the TA
component would be passed on to SPEPB on a "grant" basis by the Provincial
Government.

25.    Retroactive Financing: Eligible civil works, and goods and service contracts
awarded from November 1, 2007, until loan signing, up to a limit of US$lO million,
could be financed retroactively from the loan.

2.     Monitoring and Evaluation of Outcomes and Results

26.    The PMO will monitor progress against the agreed performance indicators
specified in Annex 3. The PMO will provide, on a semiannual basis, 45 days after the end
of each half year, consolidated reports on project implementation progress in the Bank's
Financial Management Format (FMR). The Bank will conduct regular supervision
missions twice a year. Upon project completion, the PMO will help prepare the
Borrower's contribution to an Implementation Completion and ResultsReport (ICR). The
ICR would contain a complete assessment of project costs and benefits, project
execution, and performancesofthe parties involved, as well as the lessons learned.

27.    Monitoring o f the performance of each subproject will be based mainly on CEMs
to be operated according to SEPA guidelines with data quality assurance and control by
local environmental agencies or independent organizations. The TA component will
support the development and implementation of rules, procedures, and standards on the




                                            7

installation of CEMs, the collection and analysis of data to identify irregularities and
errors, and to ensure that the data will be of highquality.

28.     Strengthening the capacity of organizations throughout the operating chain
(including the power plant owner or operator, CEM maintenance organization, and
SPEPB monitoringcenter) for emission monitoringis another important objective o f the
project for which both components provide resources. Progress on the implementationof
TA will be monitoredthrough the number o f staff trained and the rules, procedures, and
policiesdeveloped and implemented.

29.     The main indicators include (a) the percentage of CEMs installedand operated in
power plants; (b) the number of staff trained; (c) the preparation and implementationof
rules and regulations; (d) the SO2 emissions rate (mg per Nm3), and (e) the amount of
SO2 removed.These will be monitoredthrough reports provided by SPEPB. Details are
providedinAnnex 3.

3.      Sustainability

30.     The overall commitment at all levels of Shandong Provinceto reduce and control
SO2 emissions indicates a high probability that the project and its outcomes would stay
sustainable.This is specificallybecauseofthe following:

   0    The prevailing environmental regulations require installation of SO2 control
        facilities in all new power plants; there is clear commitment from the GOC to
        ensure that they are implemented. The regulations also require most of the
        existing power plants (including those supported by the project) to be retrofitted
        with SO2 control facilities. Successful implementationofthis projectwill enhance
        the successfuland cost-effectiveimplementationof future projects.

   0    The SPG has committed to SO2 control by having signed with the Central
        Government, representedby SEPA, a bindingcontractwith specifictargets.

   0    The TA component of this project aims at enhancing the capacity of SPEPB to
        monitor and enforce environmental regulations in an efficient and effective
        manner. The institutionaldevelopment will facilitate long-term sustainability of
        the SO2 controlprogram.

   0    In addition, the project supports strengtheningof other relevant institutions that
        are critical for the sustainability of SO2 control projects. For example, local
        environmental agencies or independent organizations will be responsible for
        maintaining the CEMs and ensuring the data quality before transmittal to the
        environmental monitoring centers. The project will provide training to these
        agencies to ensure that they are capable of performingtheir duties. Also, training
        will be open to power plant operators, SO2 control manufacturers, engineering
        companies, and other organizationsinvolvedin SO2 controlprojects.




                                               8

    0     Finally, the project supports the development of high quality SO2 control
          equipment. International competitive bidding and adequate minimum
          qualification requirements will ensure that the SO2 control equipment financed
          under the project will be of high quality, efficiency, and reliability. This is an
          important element for long-term sustainability of SO2 control in China, where
          many suppliersare available in the market, but with limited experience and hence
          productquality may not be guaranteed.

4.        Critical Risksand Possible Controversial Aspects

31.       In view of the non-fulfillment of the SO2 control target during the lothFive-Year
Plan Period (2001-05), the main risk that would affect the achievement of the project's
development objective is the implementationeffectivenessof environmentalregulations
by the State Government and provincialauthoritiesduringthe 1I*Five-YearPlanPeriod
(2006-1 0). However,the GOC has emphasized repeatedly the importanceof SO2 control
to the country's sustainable economic development and has demonstratedits commitment
to implement the relevant regulations. The GOC has also recognized that lack of
financing and ineffective monitoringand enforcement are the main weaknesses, and it is
taking steps to address them, as also demonstratedby askingthe Bank for support for this
project.

32.       The mainrisks associatedwith the realizationofthe resultsare shown inthe
following table.




 To ProiectDeveloment Obiectives
 SO2reduction objective not   Reductionof key air pollutants, including SO2,is an important         M
 achieved becauseof lack of   Governmentobjective duringthe 1 1Five-Year Planperiod. The SPG
                                                                      ~
 SPG commitment.              has shown its commitment to the objective by signing an agreement
                              with the Central Government to meet specific targets and by
                              developing detailed compliance plan.
 SO2reduction objective not   The SPGhas earmarkedfunds of about US%200million equivalent for       M
 achieved becauseof weakness the nextseveralyears to improve andupgrade environmental
 in monitoringcapability,     monitoring and enforcement capability.The TA componentunder the
 institutionalgovernance and  project is carefully designedto introduce the best national and
 capacity.                    internationalexperienceahd practice inenvironmentalplanningand
                              enforcementto Shandongand to fill the capacity gap through training.
 Total SO2emissionsnot        The SPG has developedadetailedtime-bound implementation planto        M
 reducedbecauseof failure by  ensure SO2emissioncontrol and compliance across the entire heat and
 other powerplantsto install  power sector. The TA componentunder the project will increasethe
 SO2control facilities as    chance ofthe plan's successfulimplementationthrough enhancingSO2
 required.                   emissionmonitoring and fully implementingSO2emissionfee
                             collection.
 To Component Results
 Procurementdelays.                Processstartedearly, with adequateprocurementplanningand         M
                                   rationalpackaging.Procurementtraininghas been providedto key
                                   PMO and implementingcompany staff andmore training will be
                                   providedas needed.A qualified and experiencedprocurement
                                   agent has been engaged to facilitatethe procurementprocess.




                                                       9

 Risk                                                        MitigationMeasure                           Risk
                                                                                                         Rating
 Low availability of FGD              Adequate technical specifications and minimum qualification         N
 equipmentbecauseof technical         requirement for suppliers andperformanceguaranteeswill be
 defects and lack of technical skills introduced.Adequate training for FGD operatorsandtechnicians
 of the plantoperators.               will be embeddedinsupply and installationcontracts.
 Low utilization rate of FGD          Effectivemonitoringutilizing high-quality CEMs, professional
 facilities becauseofplantowner's     CEMmaintenanceorganization, and strengtheningof the
 tendency to reduce operation cost.   Monitoring Centerwill mitigatethis risk significantly. Inaddition,
                                      enforced full collectionof SO2emissioncharges should also
                                      facilitatethe utilization of FGD facilities.
 Limitedeffectivenessof the TA        SPEPB andothers have shown adequate capacity and eagerness to
 component.                           furtherenhancetheir capabilities. The scope ofthe TA is designed
                                      to fit to the soecific needs ofreceivingagencies.
 Poor attentionto and compliance      EMPs andRAPShavebeen developedinline with the Chinese               N
 with the safeguardsrequirements.     standards and Bank policy and fully disclosedin a timely manner.
                                      External and internalmonitoring will be in place to monitor
                                      progress and compliance.
 OverallRisk Rating                  I                                                                  I M
     H=High; S = Substantial;M=Modest;N=Negligibleor Low

33.       No controversialaspects havebeen identified.

5.        Loan and Credit Conditionsand Covenants

34.       Loan effectiveness conditions: There are no nonstandard loan conditions or
covenants. Standard effectivenessconditions will apply. That is, execution and delivery
of the loanagreement and project agreement must be duly authorized; legal opinionsthat
the agreements are legally binding must be furnished; and a subsidiary agreement
satisfactory to the Bank between the GOC and the SPG must be signed. Furthermore,
execution of subsidiary agreements between the SPG and the implementing project
sponsors would be a conditionofdisbursement.

35.       Implementation covenants: (a) The provincial PMO (adequately staffed) shall be
maintained throughout the project implementation period; (b) the Bank loan shall be
onlent on terms and conditions satisfactoryto the Bank; and (c) the provincialPMO shall
submit to the Bank semiannual progress reportswithin 45 days after the end of each half
year in line with the Bank's FMR format.

36.       Financial and audit covenants: Annual audit reports of project consolidated
accounts and statements will be due for submission to the Bank within six months after
the end of each fiscal year.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1.        Economicand Financial Analyses

37.       Economic Analysis: A cost-benefit analysis for each proposed subproject was
conductedto examine its economic viability.


                                                           10

38.     Economicbenefitsand costs of the FGD project were identifiedand quantifiedas
much as possible.The main economic benefit is the avoided environmentaldamage cost
achieved by the SO, emission reductions, plus some additional benefit from the sale of
by-products of the FGD process (such as gypsum for the limestone systems). The
economic costs include fixed capital cost (at economic prices), operation and
maintenance (O&M) costs, and the (very small) global environmental damage of
increasedGHGemissions attributableto the electricity requiredfor FGD operation.

39.     The aggregate economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated at 24.5
percent, falling to 23.3 percent when increased COSemissions are valued at US$10 per
ton C02. This high return reflects the high environmental cost associated with
           '
uncontrolled emissions. The ERR by subproject varies widely from 19.9 percent
(Huangtai) to 32.1 percent (Laiwu). The wide variation is primarily a result of the sulfur
content of coal used at different subprojects, and the high ERR correlates strongly with
high sulfur content: Huangtai uses 0.51 percent sulfur coal, whereas Laiwu uses 1.32
percent sulfur coal. All subprojects have ERRSabove the hurdle level acceptable to the
GOC (for example, the 10percent discountrate for investmentprojectsrecommendedby
the NationalDevelopmentand ReformCommission(NDRC) ) in2002 and thereforethey
are economically justified for investment. Sensitivity analysis further shows that the
favorable economic returns are robust, given the range of uncertainty in important input
assumptions.

40.     The average tariff increasefor domestic consumersthat resultsfrom FGD systems
is very small at 0.3 percent and is far outweighed by the health benefitsof reduced SO,
emissions. The tariff impact on the poor (who consume small amounts of electricity) is
negligible; the additional cost is an almost immeasurable Y 0.2 per poor householdper
year. Indeed, the poor will benefit disproportionately from environmental quality
improvement,especially in those subprojects where new facilities replace old small coal-
burningdistrict heatingplants in urban areas.

41.     Financial Analysis: Unlike the economic analysis, the project financial analysis
assesses the impacts of the project on the financial flows of project entities, rather than
the economic returnsto society as a whole. The analysis uses constant 2006 prices and
takes into account all the elementsofproject cash flow.

42.     The project has the following financial benefits to operators: (a) the avoided
pollution levy payments for SO, emissions at a rate of Y 633 per ton of S02; (b) the sale
o f by-productsproduced in the desulfurizationprocess (for example, gypsum in the case
of limestone FGD at the selling price of Y 40 per ton in Shandong); and (c) the
incremental power tariff revenue for electricity generated at plants with FGD, which
represents a price increment o f Y 0.015 per kWh (about 5 percent of the typical
generation price o fY 0.25-0.3 per kWh).


' C02emissionsincrease marginally becauseofthe increased power consumptionto operatethe FGD
systems.


                                                11

43.     The financialcosts are (a) fixed or capitalcost of retrofit (construction), including
any taxes and duties; and (b) variable costs of O&M, including labor, water, and
absorbent (limestone and lime) costs, and the forgone revenue loss attributable to the
extra energy required for FGD system operation (typically 1-2 percent of gross
generation).

44.     The financial rates of return (FRRs) are satisfactory, and range from 10 to 20
percent for differentsub-projects.

45.     The overall project therefore has good economic returns and good financial
returns for the projectproponents.

2.      Technical

46.     The rationale for the technical design and approach is based on the requirements
of China's environmentalregulations and is consistent with internationalpractices with
regard to technology. China's environmental standards reflected in Shandong's SO,
Implementation Plan and the specific design of each subproject are consistent with
international standards and practices. Also, the FGD technology being offered in China
has matured and reflects technology transferred from overseas, as most Chinese FGD
suppliers have licensingagreements with internationalsuppliers.

47.     The technical evaluation of the project was very thorough and utilized experts
with extensive expertise in SO, control technology worldwide. First, Shandong's SO,
ImplementationPlan was reviewed to ensure consistency and compliance with China's
environmental standards (GB 13223-2003) and requirements ("Two Control Zones'').
Then, each subproject was reviewedand evaluated in detailbased on the feasibility study
prepared by the sub-borrowers (subproject companies). The review team included SO,
control experts from the U.S. EPA, China, and Europe, as well as an international
environmental economist who carried out the cost-benefit analysis. Detailed project
descriptionsand FGDtechnologiesare presented in Annex 4.

48.     The project cost estimates have beenderived from the feasibility studies. They are
considered appropriate and include reasonable contingencies. The detailed project cost
estimates are providedinAnnex 5.

3.      Fiduciary

49.    Financial Management: The adequacy of the project financial management
system was assessed based on guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector
Boardon November3, 2005. The assessmentconcludedthat the projectmeetsthe Bank's
minimum financial managementrequirementsas stipulated in BP/OP 10.02. It found that
the project will have in place an adequate project financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project in a reportingformat agreedwith the Bank.Moredetailson financial management
aspects are providedin Annex 7.



                                            12

50.    Procurement:The procurement capacity assessment concludedwith an "average"
procurement risk rating. Procurement will be managed by two experienced and qualified
procurement agents. A procurement plan has been developed. For some subprojects, a
single-responsibility supply and installationcontract arrangement will be adopted. Initial
procurement training has been provided during project preparation, and more training
will be providedto further enhance the procurement capacity of the PMO and subproject
sponsors. Moreover, advisory support, guidance, and supervisionwill be provided on a
regular basis from the Bank office in Beijing to facilitate smooth procurement process
and capacity building. Further details on procurement arrangements are provided in
Annex 8.

4.      Social

51.    Two of the four subprojects (Yantai Bajiao and Laiwu) involve land acquisition
and resettlement. A total of 100.6 ha o f land area (including67 percent farmland) will be
acquired. Along with land acquisition, a total of 274 households and 743 persons will be
physically relocated.Following national laws and regulations, appropriate compensation
will be providedfor acquired landand lost properties, based on replacement values. The
relatedsubprojectsponsors have developedtheir own Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs),
which has been reviewedby the Bank. The revised RAPs reflectingthe Bank comments
have been submittedto the Bank.

52.    With economic rehabilitation, different approaches will be adopted for different
subprojects. In Yantai Bajiao, following local policies, all land loss farmers will be
converted into non-farm status and provided with a retirement pension, medical
insurance, and job training and employment. In Laiwu, the basic approach will be to
expand non-farm employment for most of the affected villagers and provide special
assistanceto the vulnerable, so that their basic livelihoodcan be restoredor improved.

53.    The resettlementimplementationwill be carriedout by subprojectsponsors, along
with the relevant city government agencies. To ensure successful resettlement
implementation,a Resettlement LeadingGroup (RLG) will be established in each project
city, under which a resettlement unit will be set up in each subproject sponsor to be
responsible for planning and implementing the RAP. In the process o f resettlement
planning, extensive consultations have been organized by the subproject sponsors. More
efforts will be made during the resettlement implementation to encourage further
participation by the resettlers. Following both the Chinese law and Bank policy, the
subproject sponsors have already disclosed the RAPs (prior to implementation)to inform
the affected people about the impacts, compensation policies, rehabilitationoptions, and
grievance procedures. Furthermore,both internalmonitoringand externalmonitoringand
evaluation (M&E) will be carried out during the resettlement implementation. More
detailson resettlementaspects are providedin Annex 10.




                                             13

 5.      Environment

 54.     The project is in fill compliance with all environmental regulations and
 procedures of the People's Republic of China, Shandong Province, and the Bank. In
 accordance with the Bank policies and procedures for EnvironmentalAssessment (EA,
 OP/BP/GP 4-01), the project has been assigned Category B. To meet Chinese
 requirements, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) reports were prepared for each
 subproject either for the FGD unit alone or for the combined FGD unit and associated
 boiler(s). To meet the Bank requirements, Environmental Management Plans (EMPs)
 were prepared for each FGD subproject. Annex 10providesa summary of the nature and
 status of the Chinese and World Bank EA documentation, the chiefenvironmentalissues,
 the dates and locations of the consultation, and in-country disclosure of the EMPs for
 each subproject. English language versions of the EMPs were received by the Bank
 betweenOctober 31andNovember 16,2006, and disclosedinthe Infoshopon November
 27, 2006.

 55.     The project is expected to provide overall positive environmental impacts with
 potentially minor negativeimpacts.Installationof FGD systems on coal-firedboilerswill
 result in significant reductions of SO2 and dust emissions. In turn, these reductions are
 likely to lead to overall improvementsin air quality. The Governmenthas establishedthat
 both SO2 and dust are in serious violation of Chinese air quality standards in many
 regions of Shandong Province. The potential negative impacts are primarily associated
with the disposal of the gypsum by-product that is the chief component of the spent
 sorbent. Generally, this material will be utilized by construction industries.The amount
will depend on its physical and chemical quality and market demand. Any excessive
material will be disposed of in accordance with Chinese regulations at sites officially
 approved by either provincialor local environmentalauthorities, or both. The material is
 not hazardous.

 56.     During construction, potentially adverse impacts are of short duration, limited in
area, andwholly reversible.They are primarily associatedwith the movement ofworkers,
machinery, and materials (such as dust, noise, and waste construction materials).
Mitigation measures are standard procedures constituting good engineering and
constructionpractice.

6.       SafeguardPolicies

57.      Safeguardscreeningcategory is S2, and environmentalscreeningcategory is B.

SafeguardPolicies Triggered by the Project                       Yes               No
EnvironmentalAssessment (OP/BP/GP 4.0 1)                          El               0
NaturalHabitats(OP/BP 4.04)                                       0                El
Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                          0                Ei
CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.1 1)              0                Ei
InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                              El               0
IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)               0                El



                                            14

Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                               0                    ixi
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                       0                    ixi
Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)'                                        0                    El
Projectson International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                0                    ixi

7.        Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

a. Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                                   No
Ifso, what are they andhow aretheyjustified?
b. Have they beenapprovedby Bank management?                                                    N/A
c. I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                 N/A

                                      Compliance with Readiness Criteria




* By supportingtheproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thejnal determinationofthe parties'
claims on the disputed areas

                      Annex 1: Country and Sector Background
          CHINA: ShandongPower Plant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject

HeavyRelianceon Coal

1.      Since 1980, China's gross domestic product (GDP) has increased at an annual
averagerate o f 9 percent, the highest sustained growth of any country. To support such a
high economic growth, China's primary energy consumption more than tripled from 600
Mtce in 1980 to about 2,220 Mtce in 2005 (Table 1.1). All forecasts indicate that
China's economy will continue to expand at a relatively high rate for the coming decade.
As a result, energy consumption will continue to grow rapidly despite increased and
sustained energy efficiency efforts. China's rising energy demand has been met largely
by domestic coal. Coal consumption increased from 1.08 billion tons in 1980 to 2.1
billions tons in 2005. Even with an aggressive fuel diversification policy, coal will
remain the dominant energy source for the foreseeable future.


                 Table 1.1: China Primary CommercialEnergy Consumption


                    1980                                          2005
 Coal       Oil      Gas     Hydro     Total    Coal      Oil     Gas     Hydro    Total
435.1      125.2     18.7      24      603      1565      471      62       162    2220
72.24% 20.76%       3.1%     3.99%     100%    68.7%     21.2%    2.8%     7.3%    100%

2.      China's power generation capacity and electricity generation reached 508 GW
and 2475 TWh respectively in 2005. O f this, coal-based generation capacity and
electricity generation accounted for 69 percent and 80 percent, respectively. About 50
percent of the coal consumed in 2005 was used for electricity generation. China's
electric generating capacity is projected to increase to over 1,100 GW by 2020. Even if
exceptional efforts were made to develop nuclear power, hydropower and other
renewable energy sources, at least half of the future generation capacity will need to
come from coal. Coal-based generation capacity is expectedto increase to more than 700
GW; and coal-basedgeneration will remain dominant beyond 2020 (Table 1.2).


               Table 1.2: InstalledCapacity and Electricity Generation in 2005


  Coal         Oil          Gas        Hydro       Nuclear    Biomass/Wind      Total
  348         24.7           9          116            7            3.3          508
 68.5%       4.86%         1.77%       22.83%       1.38%         0.65%         100%


  Coal         Oil          Gas        Hydro       Nuclear    Biomass/Wind      Total
  1980        17.3          19.8       395.2        52.3            10.1       2474.7
  80%         0.7%         0.8%         16%         2.1%           0.4%        100%



                                           16

Severe Air Pollution

3.      The rapid expansion of the power generationsystem and its primary reliance on
coal has contributed to China's severe air pollution. Sulfur dioxide (SOz), through its
transformation into sulfate small particles, is identified as one of the most serious
pollutants impacts on human health, buildings, cultural heritage, and crop production.
According to the environment reportsreleased by SEPA, a total of 25.5 million tons of
SO2 was released in 2005. Combustion of coal contributed to more than 90 percent of
the SO2 emissions in China. It is estimated that air pollution in major urban areas
contributedto 178,000 premature deaths and 346,000 respiratory hospital admissions a
year, to which SO2 is a major contributor.Acid rain has occurred in more that half of
China's 696 cities. About one-third of China's territory, mainly the densely populated
and industrial south, has been affected by acid rain. The direct economic losses through
reduction of timber growth and crop reduction alone are estimated to be more than
US$12.5 billion annually.

GovernmentStrategy

4.      The Chinese authorities are fully aware of the need to address environmental
problems, and its recent policy calls for economic development proceeding in tandem
with environmental protection. Efforts are being made to enhance both the supply of
cleaner energy resourcesand the efficiency of energy use, which underpinsthe country's
energy strategy and policy. The Government is taking aggressive action to diversify its
energy sources, including an accelerated nuclear power development program, an
ambitious gas development, and a significant hydropower and renewable energy
development scheme (Table 1.3).




  Coal        Oil        Gas        Hydro       Nuclear  Biomass      Wind       Total
  700         20          40          240         40        30         30         1100
63.64%      1.82%      3.64%       21.82%       3.64%     2.73%      2.73%       100%

5.      However, it is commonly accepted that China has no realistic alternatives to
fundamentally change its heavy dependence on coal as its primary source of energy in
the short and mediumterm. Mitigation of the environmentalimpact from the use of coal
is a principalelement of its clean air policy. The Governmenthas developedthe National
Ambient Air Quality Standards, which are comparable to international standards (Table
1.4).




                                            17

                          Table 1.4: Ambient Air Quality Standards
                             (Milligrams per cubic meter, mg/m3)




-Not   available.
* Eight-houraverage.

 6.      The regulationsdesignate three categories for different types ofareas: (a) Class 1
 standards are the most stringent standards and apply to national nature reserves, tourist
 and historic areas, and conservationsites; (b) Class 2 standards apply to residential and
 ruralzones; and (c) Class3 standards apply to industrialand heavytraffic areas.

 7.      The Class 2 standards, as shown in Table 1.5, are similar to (and in some cases
 more stringent) than the US. standards and the guidelines of such organizations as the
 World Bankandthe World HealthOrganization.

 8.      The revised Standards on Emissions of Air Pollutants from Coal-Fired Plants

 below 400 mgper Nm .Inaddition, the GOC createdthe policy commonly knownas the
 (GB 13223-2003) are quite stringent, requiringthe most recent powerplantsto limit SO2

 "Two Control Zones" (acid rain control zones and sulfbr dioxide control zones), which
 cover 1.09 million square kilometers and 61 large cities. Provinceswithin these zones
 are requiredto limit SO2 below an emissioncap.




                                           18

             Table 1.5: EmissionStandards for Thermal-Fired Power Plants(mg/Nm3)

Pollutant                      China               United States                 WorldBank
Total suspended     PeriodI:200-300                Inmost cases:                      50
particulate         Period11:200 upto 2005             30-50
(TSP)               Period11: 50 after 2010
                    Period111: 50 (except plants
                    with FGDs: 100)
Sulfur oxides (for 2,100 PeriodI& I1by 2005           400-800         For the first 500 MW:
exampleSO2)          1,200 PeriodIby 2010                             0.20 tons per day (tpd) per MWe
                    400 PeriodI1by 2010 and                           of capacity
                    Period111                                         Greaterthan 500 MW:
                                                                      Concentration of SO2inthe flue
                                                                      gas shouldnot exceed2,000
                                                                      rngmm3
                                                                      Maximum SOzemissionof 500
                                                                      tpd
Nitrogenoxides      VM>20%: 450                      210 (0.15        Coal: 750
                     100<VM<20%:
                      - 650 for PeriodI1and 111      IbsMBtu)         Coal w N M <lo%: 1,500
                      -                                               Oil: 460
                         1,100 for PeriodI                            Gas: 320
                    VM<IO%:
                      ---                                             Combustion turbineunits:
                         1,500 for Period I                              Gas: 125
                         1,300 for PeriodI1                              Diesel: 165
                         1.100 for Period 111                            Fueloil: 300



 9.      These new standardsintroduce the following three categories:

         0   First period: Power plants approvedprior to December 31, 1996.
         0   Secondperiod: Power plants approved between January 1, 1997, and
             December 31,2003.
         0   Thirdperiod: Power plants2approved after January 1, 2004.

  10.    The SO2 emission target set for the loth Five-Year Plan period (2001-05),
 however, was not achieved. This was partly a result of a lack of financing and incentives
 for the plant owners to install SO2 control facilities, but more importantly it was caused
 by ineffective monitoring and enforcement of the environmental regulations, mainly at
 the local level.

  11.    Most recently, the llth         Five-Year Plan approved by the National People's
 Congress (NPC) sets a target to reduce the country's 2005 level of SO2 emission by 10
 percent by the year 2010. Under State Council guidance, SEPA has signed binding
 contracts with the seven largest SO2-emitting provinces (including Shandong) and major
 power-generating companies with specific SO2 emission control targets. New financial


  Including the new construction, extension, or reconstructionof the construction projects whose
environmentalimpact reportswere examinedand approvedduring the second period, but it has been
five years since the approvaldate, and they havenot yet been commencedto buildbefore the
implementationofthis standard.


                                                  19

incentives have also been provided, and enforcement is being strengthened. Financial
incentivesincludethe following:

            a. Electricitygeneratedby plantswith FGD facilitiescan be sold to the grid
                at a tariff of 1.5 fen per kWh higherthan without FGD installations.
            b. The SO2 emission fee was increasedto Y 633 per ton.
            c. SEPA i s empowered-moreeffectivelythan previously-to reject new
                projects,suspendproductionofongoingprojects, and imposeheavy
                penalties on noncompliantfirms.

ShandongProvince

12.     Shandong Province ranks second of all Chinese provinces in coal consumption
(159 million tons of coal in 2003) and produces the highest amount of SO2 emissions of
all the provinces. Coal accounted for 82 percent of primary energy consumption in the
province, against the national average of 67 percent. Shandong's electric power
generatingcapacity consists of 99 percent coal-firedunits against the nationalaverage of
69 percent. Furthermore, Shandong has limited resources of low-sulfur coal, and under
current supply-constrainedconditions in the coal industry, cannot obtain sufficient low-
sulfur coal from other sources even if it is willing to pay a significant premium. Coal-
fired power plants account for 99.7 percent of the 37.6 GW total power capacity and
they consume 51.6 percent of the total coal consumptionby all sectors in Shandong, and
as a result, are the main sources of SO2 emissions. In 2005, SO2 emissions in Shandong
Province amounted to 2.03 million tons, of which 1.17 million tons, or 52.4 percent,
were contributedby the powerand heat industry.

13.     The SPG has embraced the Central Government's SO2 control policies and
targets by developing its own SO2 emission control targets and compliance plan. The
SPG's plan calls for an overall 20 percent SO2 emission reductionby 2010 on the 2005
level.The emissionreductionrate for the electric power industry is set to be 27.9 percent
on the 2005 level.

14.     To achieve these targets, SPEPB hasdeveloped the "SO2 Control Implementation
Plan for ThermalPower PlantsKogenerationPlants." The focus of Shandong's efforts is
on plants owned by provincial and municipal organizations. These plants are mostly
cogenerationplants that cannot be moved to a new site because of the requirement to
supply heat as well as power. Shandong's strategy is to ensure that any new plant is
designed to meet emission standards and to foster retrofitting of existing plants with
FGDand other cleanup equipment. Where possible, the capacity of a largerplant is to be
expanded to allow smaller boilers, for which cleanup equipment installation is
uneconomic, to be closed down. These target plants find it difficult to raise financing for
cleanup or do not have adequate self-generated finance. SPEPB also plans to upgrade
environmental monitoring facilities and information systems, strengthen environmental
governance and institutionalcapacity, as well as pilot emission certificate and emission
rights trading schemes. However, the SO2 Control Implementation Plan requires
approximatelyUS$2 billion and lackof financinghas delayed its implementation.



                                             20

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and Other Agencies
             CHINA: ShandongPowerPlant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject




                                                           Implementation     Development
                                                              Progress          Objective
Sector Issue                        Project                      (IP)              (DO)
Bank-Financed
Coal dominance,         ShanghaiWaigaoqiao                         S                 S
environment
Coal dominance,        RenewableEnergy                             S                 S
renewableenergy        Development
Coal dominance,        China RenewableEnergy                       S                 S
renewableenergy         Scale Up Program
Energy efficiency      Energy Conservation                         S                 S
Energy efficiency      Energy ConservationI1                       S                 S
Coal dominance,        HubeiHydroelectricPower                     S                 S
financing              Development inPoorAreas
Supply efficiency,     Tongbai PumpedStorage                       S                 S
market reform
Supply efficiency,     Yixing PumpedStorage                        S                 S
marketreform

Coal dominance,        Shanxi Coal BedMethane
environment
Energy efficiency
Energy efficiency,
access
Other DevelopmentAi 'ne Financed
Coal dominance,        ADB: Coal MineMethane             I
environment            Development
Coal dominance,        ADB: Liaoning
environment            EnvironmentImprovement
Coal dominance,        ADB: Inner Mongolia
environment            EnvironmentImprovement            1
Coal dominance,        UNDP/GEF:Capacity
renewableenergy        Building for theRapid
                       Commercializationof
                       RenewableEnergy
Coal dominance,        UNDP/GEF:Solar and
renewableenergy        Wind ResourceAssessment
Coal dominance,        UNDP/GEF:EndUse
energy efficiency      Energy Efficiency

IPDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory);U(Unsatisfactory);HU(Highly Unsatisfactory)




                                                 21

                            Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring
                   CHINA: ShandongPower Plant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject


                                        Table 3.1: ResultsFramework



The project development          Total SO2emissions in Shandong- Gauge the effectiveness of Shandong's
objective is to reduceSO2        reduced                         SO2 control program
emissionsinthe heat and power
sector and enhancethe capacity
of regulatory authorities to
monitorand enforce
compliance with their SO2
emissionsreductionprogram
     IntermediateResults           Results Indicators for Each          Use of Results Monitoring
     One per Component                      Cornponent
Component A: Technical
Assistance (TA) to strengthen
the technical and institutional
capacity of SPEPB to
implement SO2emission
reduction
Strengthen SPEPB's capacity     Policies, rules, procedures and  Progresson the issuingof policies, rules,
in SO2control                   standardson SO2controland SO2    proceduresand standards on SO2 control
                                emissionsmonitoringissuedand     and SO2 emissionsmonitoringwill
                                 implemented                     indicate how well SPEPB is institutionally
                                                                 positionedto implement its SO2 control
                                                                 program.
Improveemissionmonitoring        Installationand successful      The rate of installationand successful
to facilitate SO2 control       performanceof CEMs including     performanceof CEMs inheat andpower
                                data transfer to the monitoring  plants will indicatehow well SO2
                                center from all sites which      emissionsinthe heat andpower sector can
                                 installedFGDs                   be monitoredandthus controlled.

Strengthen enforcement of       Full collectionof SO2 emission   Percentage of fee collectionfor SO2
regulationsto ensure             fee accordingto requirementsand emissionsand noncompliancewill
compliance                      noncompliancewith emission       indicate to what extent regulation
                                standardspenalized               enforceabilityneeds hrther improvement.
Component B:
InstallationofFGDfor four       InstallationofFGDswhich          Monitoring of implementationprogress
subproject companies            performaccordingto design        and action planto address possible delay
                                specifications and are completed andperformancedeficiency
                                within the allocated budget and
                                projectedschedule; KPI: removal
                                efficiency and SO2rate (mg/Nm3)
                                Timely disbursement ofthe Bank   Implementationdelays of project
                                 loan proceeds




                                                     22

                          Table 3.2: Arrangements for Results Monitoring

                                      Target Values             DataC llection and Rep ting
                                                                                         ~~




  OutcomeIndicators       Baseline         Year       Frequencyand    Data Collection      Responsibility
                            2005           2010          Reports        Instruments          for Data
                                                                                            Collection
Total amountof SOz     10,000 tons    900,000 tons  Annual            SPEPB annual       SPEPBPMO
removed inthe heat                                  implementation    environmental
and power sector                                    progressreport    report

Total amountof SOz     2.03 million   1.6 million
emissionsin Shandong   tons           tons
ResultsIndicatorsfor
    Each Component
-Componentprocedures
                A:                    Operational   Annual            Reportto World     SPEPB
   Rules and                                        implementation    Bank
issued on CEM                                       progress reports
installation,
calibration,data
collectionand
-transmissionf
  Number o staff,      0              500           Annual            SPEPB           SPEPB
managers and                                        implementation    Monitoring
operatorstrained                                    progress reports  Centerdata
- Percentage    of     10             100           Annual            SPEPB records   SPEPB
installationand proper                              implementation
operationof CEMs in                                 progress reports
-heat andpower plants
   Online monitoring                  Operational   Annual            SPEPB records   SPEPB
system                                              implementation
                                                    progressreports
- SO:!control policy                  Operational   Annual            SPEPB records   SPEPB
and regulation                                      implementation
prepared                                            progressreports
Results Indicators for
    EachComponent
ComponentB:
- Installationof                      Operational
                  FGDs                              Annual            SPEPB           3PEPB
and CEMs at the four                                implementation    Monitoring
-siteson schedule                                   progress reports  Center data
  Achievement ofthe    0              90-95%        Annual            SPEPB           3PEPB
target SOzremoval                                   implementation    Monitoring
efficiency
- Total                                             progress reports  Center data
         tonnages of   0              58,645        Annual            SPEPB           3PEPB
SOzremovedannually                                  implementation    Monitoring
-atAchievement of the
    the five sites                                  progress reports  Center data
                                      All           Annual            SPEPB           SPEPB
target emissionrate                                 implementation    Monitoring
:400 mg/Nm3)                                        progress reports  Center data




                                                 23

                         Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
            CHINA: Shandong PowerPlant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject


1.      The project consists of a TechnicalAssistance (TA) Component and an
InvestmentComponent.

(A) TechnicalAssistance Component(US$2.28 million)

2.      The TA Component is intended to strengthen the technical and institutional
capacity related to SO2 emission control and reduction, particularly in the following
areas: emission control planning, emission monitoring and regulation enforcement,
technical and managerial training, installation of online monitoring equipment. The
component would includebothstudiesand capacity buildingactivities.

3.      Capacity Building for SO, Control: This subcomponent consists of the following
two activities: (a) develop rules, procedures and standards on installation, operation and
maintenance of, and data transmission from, continuous emission monitors (CEMs); (b)
review the needs and make recommendations to upgrade the data information and
transmission system, speed up and enforce the installation of CEMs and the associated
facilities in each power plant (to link with and transfer data to SPEPB's data system and
informationcenters).

4.      Policv and Regulation Development: While it is recognized that SO2 emission
control in the power sector by installingFGDs in each power plant would be effective, it
is equally important that the SPG take parallel actionsto enhance and optimize its long-
term policy effectiveness and sophistication in planning and implementing compliance
programs, designing and implementing market-based policies and instruments, (such as
emissiontrading) as well as enhancing environmentalregulation compliance over power
and non-power sectors. With regard to strategy and policy, SPEPB should optimize the
design of SO2 control programs to reflect the cost-effectiveness (RMB per ton of
pollutant removed) for each possible environmental control project. Such optimization
would achieve the same environmental benefit at a reduced compliance cost or higher
environmentalbenefit (lower pollution) at the same cost. Also, market-based instruments
would be usedto optimizethe compliancecosts.

5.      Staff and ManagerialTraining: Extensivetraining programs will be implemented
to enhance the knowledge and capacity of government officials as well as key coal
consumers on SO2 control policy and implementation.Areas of training would include:
emissionmonitoring,data collectionand analysis, CEM calibrationand maintenance, and
regulation enforcement, as well as operation and maintenance of SO2 emission
equipment.Technicaltrainingactivity will be targeted at SPEPB and localEPBs' staff as
well as power plantFGDoperators.




                                            24

(B) InvestmentComponent(USS74.955 million)

6.      The investment component is to finance the installation of FGD facilities in four
coal-fired heat and power plants that are currently operating or are under (or planned for)
construction. A description o f each heat and power plant is given below.

Huangtai Heat and Power Plant (US$20.07million)

General

7.      The Huangtai Heat and Power Plant is located in the northeast part of Jinan, the
capital of Shandong Province, where it is the heat load center o f the east and northeast
areas of the city. The power plant, belonging to the Shandong Luneng Power Group,
plays an important role in meetingthe power and heat demandofJinan.

8.      The power plant was built in 1958 and currently owns seven boilers and eight
turbines with a total installed capacity of 1,005 MW. Units No. 1-4 were installed
betweenthe 1950s and 1960s and have been operating for more than 40 years. Units No.
5 and 6 are also very old and have been retrofitted a number of times. All these six units
operate at very low efficiency and produce severe air pollutant emissions.

9.      To meet the continuous growing demand of power and heat and to abate the
environmental pollution, the power plant has decided to install 2 x 300 M W units to
replace the old units (Nos. 1-6). The total capacity of the replaced units is 325 MW. The
Bank loan would be used to finance the installation of SO2 removal systems (FGD
facility) to the two new 300 M W units.

The ProposedFGDFacility

10.     The new 2 x 300 M W units are designed to operate based on coal with 0.51
percent of sulfur content, 21.22 percent o f ash content, and 21,890 kJ per kg of heat
value. To meet the required emission standards, the SO2 removal efficiency of the FGD
facility should be 95 percent or higher.

11.     The Wet Limestone-Gypsum FGD process has been selected for the following
reasons:

        High SO2 removal and absorbent utilization rate
        Mature process for large capacity units
        High availability
   0    Suitable for a wide variety of coal with different sulfur content
        Abundant limestone resourceswith high quality available inthe vicinity ofthe
        power plant
        Promising market inthe area for the byproduct (Le., gypsum)

12.     The FGD facility mainly consists of the following systems: absorbent preparation
and supply system, SO2 absorbing system, flue gas system, gypsum processing system,



                                            25

water supply system, electrical system, and control system. It will be locatedbehind the
boiler house. Each boiler will be equipped with a separate pressurizingfan, an absorber
tower and a heat exchanger. The two boilers will share the lime making, gypsum
dewateringand oxygensupply facilities.

Availabilitv ofAbsorbent

13.     In Jinan and nearby areas, many limestone quarries are available to supply very
high quality limestone. The limestone block can be transported by trucks to the power
plant. As the particle size of the absorbent for FGD system should be less than 20mm, a
wet milling system will be installed to grind limestoneto a fineness not larger than 250
mesh.The annual consumptionof limestoneis about 25,800 tons. The purity of limestone
shouldbemorethan 52 percent of CaO content.

ByproductUtilization

14.     The byproduct of the FGD process is gypsum. The annual output of gypsum is
expected to be 48,000 tons. The purity o f the gypsum will be higher than 90 percent.
Gypsum is mainly used in the construction industry (such as cement, construction
materials).

15.     There are no rich resources of gypsum in Jinan or nearby areas. The cement
industry alone in the area (with an annual output of 5 million tons) would need about
200,000-250,000 tons of gypsum. Moreover, gypsum wall-board industry would need
around 100,000 tons or more. As such, the byproduct of gypsum should be readily
marketable.

Laiwu Heat and Power Plant (US$20.075million)

General

16.     The Laiwu Power Plant, located 9 km away from Laiwu city, was built in 1975
with 3x125 MW units. To meet the growing demand of district heatingfor industrialand
residentialcustomers and to improvethe heatingnetwork in the southern part of the city,
two new 300MW coal-fired cogeneration units with FGD systems are under preparation
for construction.The power plant is ownedby the ShandongLunengGroup.

17.     According to the Feasibility Study Report, the new 2 x 300 MW cogeneration
units will replacea total of 67 stacks and 107 small and medium-sizedunits in the area.
All these existing units have low combustion efficiency, high pollutants emission with
very short stacks. The reductionof SO2 and dust emissionis estimated at 2,203.6 tons and
847 tons per year respectively.Therefore, the completion of the proposed 2 x 300 MW
new units will not only improve the structure of heat supply in Laiwu city and provide
more power to the Shandong power grid, but also significantly alleviate the air pollution
in the localarea.




                                            26

The FGD Facility

18.    The new 2 x 300MW units will burn coal with 1.04-1.32 percent sulhr content
and 24-27 percent ash content, and 19,700-2 1,190 kJkg heat value.To meetthe required
emissionstandards, the FGD's SO;! removalefficiencyshouldbe 95 percent or higher.

19.    The feasibility study compared eight types of FGD processes and recommended
the Wet Limestone-Gypsumprocessfor the following reasons:

    0  High SO;!removaland absorbent utilization rate
    e  Mature process for largecapacityunits
    e  Highavailability
    0  Suitablefor a wide varietyof coal with different sulfur content
    0  Abundant limestone resourceswith high quality availablein the vicinity ofthe
       power plant
    0  Promisingmarketin the area for the byproduct(Le,, gypsum)

20.    The FGD facility mainly consists of the following systems: absorbent preparation
and supply system, SO2 absorb system, flue gas system, gypsum processing system,
water supply system, electrical system, and control system. It will be located behindthe
boiler house. Each boiler will be equipped with a separate pressurizingfan, an absorber
tower and a heat exchanger. The two boilers will share the lime making, gypsum
dewateringand oxygensupply facilities.

Availability ofAbsorbent

21.    Availability of limestone powder as the absorbent for the FGD system has been
secured by the power plant from nearby suppliers. The calcium carbonate (CaC03)
content o f limestone powder is not lower than 90 percent and the fineness is 250 mesh,
which are acceptable by the process.

ByproductUtilization

22.    The area of Laiwu city lacks natural gypsum resources. As a result, the many
cement factories inthe localarea importneededgypsum from other areas ofthe province.
Therefore, the gypsum byproductfrom the FGD process should not only find a promising
local market, but can also expect to receive a good price (because the local supply will
also savetransportationcosts).

Lubei Heat and Power Plant (USS20.67million)

General

23.    The power plant is located at the Lubei High-Tech Development Zone in Wudi
County of Binzhou Municipality. The power plant (2 x 300 MW) is currently under
construction.The first 300 MW unit is scheduled to be commissionedin March2008 and
the second unit in May 2008. The proposed subproject will finance installation of wet


                                          27

limestone-gypsumFGD facilities to the two 300 MW units. The project is owned and
operated by the Shandong Lubei EnterprisesGroup.

The FGDFacility

24.     The 2 x 300 MW units expect to burn coal with 0.6 percent of sulhr content,
11.02percent of ash content and 22,760 kJkgofheat value.

25.     The feasibility study report strongly recommends the wet limestone-gypsum
FGD.

26.     The power plant owner, the Shandong Lubei Enterprises Group, is a large
industrial complex. Besides power generation, it has subsidiaries with production
capacity of 800,000 t/a of sulhric acid, and 600,000 of cement. It is the biggest producer
of ammonium phosphate, sulfuric acid and cement in the world. It is also an exemplary
enterprise in Chinafor recycling.The byproductof gypsum can be easily absorbedwithin
the Group for the productionof higher-value-addedproductsof sulfuric acid and cement.
As such, the sulfur contained in the coal is not only fully utilized, but air pollution is
controlledat the sametime.

Availability ofAbsorbent

27.     The limestoneblock is transportedfrom Zibo City, about 200-250 km away. The
quality of limestoneis good with CaC03content greater than 92 percent.The total annual
consumption is about 27,390 tons. The power plant will install a wet milling system for
preparationof limestoneslurry.

28.    The FGD system will consume water at 100 t/h or 550,000 t/a, to be supplied by
the powerplant's seawater desalinizationfacility.

ByproductUtilization

29.    The total output of gypsum for these two sets of FGD systems is about 44,495 tla
(with purity of 90 percent and less than 10 percent of moisture). As described above, all
ofthe gypsum will be hlly utilized within the industrialcomplex.

Yantai Bajiao Heat and Power Plant (US$I4.14million)

Genera1

30.    The Yantai Bajiao Power Plant is a new power plant with 2 x 300 MW units. It
will be located in the BajiaoDistrict ofYantai BajiaoDevelopmentZone, alongthe coast
of the Bohai Sea. The power plant will be sponsoredby the Shandong LunengGroup. A
Bank loan hasbeenrequestedto finance installationofthe associatedFGD facilities.




                                           28

The FGD Facility

31.    The 2 x 300 MW units expect to burn coal with 0.54 percent of sulfur content,
12.69 percent of ash content and heat value of 22,100 kJkg. To meet the required SO:,
emissionstandard, the associatedFGD system should reach an efficiency level of at least
90 percent.

FGDProcesses Selection

32.    The feasibility study report compared the available FGD technologies and
concluded that both the Sea Water Wet FGD Process and the Wet Limestone-Gypsum
FGD Process are suitable to meet the above-mentioned SO2 removal requirement.
Considering the potential impact of the sea water wet FGD process on the marine
ecosystem and the maturity and reliability of the wet limestone FGD process, the latter
processhas been selected by the powerplant.

Availability ofAbsorbent

33.    The limestoneblock will come from Fushan District in the suburb of Yantai city.
This area has rich resources of limestoneof a high quality. The limestonecontains 51.42
percent of CaO. Unfortunately, the SO2 content is also very high (4.18 percent) which
may cause erosioninthe milling system and result in higher energy consumption.

34.    The total limestoneconsumptionwould be 4.47 t/h or 24,600 t/a. The blocks will
be transported by truck. A limestone supply agreement has been signed between the
supplier andthe power plant.

BvproductUtilization

35.    The FGD process will produce gypsum as a byproduct with a purity not lower
than 90 percent (plus 10 percent moisture). The total gypsum output would be 42,000
tons per year. The local cement and wall-board factories have committedto buy the full
amount of gypsum from the powerplant.




                                          29

                                Attachment to Annex 4

                 Descriptionof Wet Limestone-GypsumFGDProcess


WetLimestone FGD System

1.     The wet limestone FGD system consists of mainly the absorbent fabrication and
supply system, the SO2absorb system, flue gas system, the gypsum processing system,
the water supply system, electric system and control system. The FGD system will be
located behindthe boiler house of the power plant. Each boiler will be equipped with a
separate pressurizingfan, an absorber tower and a heat exchanger. The two boilers will
share the lime making, gypsum dewateringand oxygensupply facilities.

2.     The SO2 absorb system is the core of the FGD facility. It consists of an absorber,
defog, circulating pump, oxidizing fan, among other elements. The SO2 in the flue gas
reacts with CaCo3 in the lime and forms gypsum crystal after forced oxidization at the
bottomofthe absorbertower. The control system continuouslymonitorsthe gas flue, SO2
and C02 at the entrance and exit ofthe FGD.

Process Flow Sheet




ProcessDescription

3.     The wet limestone(lime)-gypsum FGD processadopts the inexpensiveand easily
obtainable limestone or lime as the FGD absorbent. The limestone will be mixed with
water to prepare the absorbent slurry after beingcrushed and ground into powder with the
required fineness. When the lime is used as absorbent, the lime powder will be mixed
with water to preparethe absorbent slurry after slakingtreatment.


                                            30

4.      Insidethe absorber, the absorbingslurry will be sprayed and fully contacted with
the flue gas to remove the SO2 contained in the flue gas through a series of chemical
reactionsamong S02, calcium carbonate in the slurry and the of oxidation air, producing
gypsumas the final byproduct.

5.      The scrubbed flue gas will go through the mist eliminator where the small
droplets of slurry will be capturedto reducethe moistureinthe cleaned flue gas. Then the
cleaned flue gas goes into the stack after being reheated in the gas-gas heater (GGH) or
emits from the stack intothe ambient atmospherewithout any reheating.

6.      The FGD gypsum slurry will be recirculated to the spray nozzle levels by re-
circulating pumps. Because of the recirculation of the absorbing slurry, the FGD
absorbent holds a very highutilization rate.

7.      The bleeding slurry from the sump of the absorber is pumped into the gypsum
dewateringsystem which consists of hydro-cyclonesand vacuum belt filters. The gypsum
dewatering system can reduce the water content of final FGD by-product to 10 percent.
The collected water will be returned to the process to reduce water consumption of the
FGD systems.

8.      The final byproduct of this FGD process is salable gypsum with high purity and
can be widely used for building material. There are two ways to deal with the byproduct
gypsum. It can either be disposed of or reused. The selection is mainly dependent upon
the market demand for FGD gypsum, its quality and whether there is a sufficient storage
area.

9.      The chloride in the slurry is the main cause of corrosion in the materials of the
structure of the absorber and all ducts which come into contact with the slurry.
Accordingly it can deteriorate the quality of the byproduct gypsum. Therefore, some
wastewater should be discharged from the process system to decrease the concentration
of chloride in the slurry. The amount of wastewater required is relatively low, only
several tons per hour, and will be treated by a specially designed wastewater treatment
system.

10.     The wet limestone-gypsum FGD process is currently the most sophisticated
desulfurization process and the most widely used. In the United States, Germany and
Japan, the process accounts for approximately 90 percent of the total FGD systems
installed. It has been applied to a single unit with a capacity up to 1,000 MW. This
process is applicable for coal with any sulfur content and can achieve removalefficiency
of morethan 95 percent.

11.     The wet limestonegypsum FGD systems are now widely used inChinawith more
than 200 sets of wet FGD systems havingbeen put into operation or under construction,
accounting for 95 percent of total FGD systems in China. Among them the largest
capacity is 1,000MW andthe highest sulfur content is 4.5 percent.




                                            31

ProcessFeatures

12.   The technical features ofwet limestone gypsum FGD process are:

       0 Mostwidely usedand mature FGDtechnologyinthe world
       0 High SO;! removal,usually higherthan 95 percent
       0 Highavailability: it is possibleto achieve 100 percent
       0 Flexibleand suited to a variety o fcoalwith either low or highsulfur content
         Limestoneas an absorbent is bothinexpensiveand abundant in China
         Gypsum as a byproduct is salable and has a promising market. Moreover,
         gypsum is not a hazardous material and poses no harmful threat to the
         environmentwhen it is in storage




                                         32

                                        Annex 5: Project Costs
              CHINA: ShandongPowerPlant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject


Main assumptions used in cost estimates:

        0   Basecosts derived from the feasibility study reports
        0   Exchange rate (December 30,2007): Y 7.30 = US$1
        0   Physicalcontingency= 8 percent of base cost (investmentonly)
        0   Price contingency= 0 percent (FGD price in the domestic markethas been
            comingdown, which should morethan offset inflation.)
        0   WB loan interestrate= 5.0 percent
        0   Front-endfee =0.25 percent (afterwaiving by the Bank for FY08)
        0   Domesticbank loaninterestrate = 7.84 percent

                                        Table 5.1: Project Costs

                                                        Non-Bank
Project Cost By Componentand/or Activity                Financed   Financed
                                                                     Bank      Total

                                                       US$million US$million US$million

---- Lubei
I.Investment
     Huangtai                                               5.07     15.00     20.07
    Laiwu                                                  10.95      9.125    20.075
                                                            5.67     15.00     20.67
     Yantai Bajiao                                          4.14     10.00     14.14
                          Subtotal                         25.83     49.125    74.955
11.TechnicalAssistance
--- Policv
     Emission monitoring and enforcement                    0.72      0.35      1.07
     Training                                               0.65      0.30      0.95
           studies                                          0.16      0.10      0.26
                          Subtotal                          1.53      0.75      2.28
Total BaselineCost                                         27.36     49.875    77.235
     Contingencies                                          4.36      0.00      4.36
     Interestduring construction                            4.42      0.00      4.42
     Front-end fee                                          0.00      0.125     0.125
                              Total FinancingRequired      36.14     50.00     86.14




                                                   33

                       Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
          CHINA: ShandongPowerPlant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject

Overview

1.      Shandong ProvincialEnvironmentalProtectionBureau (SPEPB) is the provincial
government agency responsible for overall project coordination. A Project Management
Office (PMO) under SPEPB has been formally set up through a decreejointly issued by
Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau (SPFB), Shandong Provincial Development and
Reform Commission (SPDRC) and SPEPB on March 20, 2006. The PMO is hosted by
SPEPB and headed by a Deputy Director General of SPEPB. Four deputy directorshave
also been appointed. The routinework of the PMO is to be performedby several staff of
SPEPB. The PMO will be the focal point for the project and will provide the necessary
coordinationfor project preparation and implementation.Each subproject has in place its
own institutional arrangement for project preparation and implementation as described
below.

2.      A Project LeadingGroup (PLG) has also been established at the provincial level.
The PLG is headed by the Provincial Vice Governor in charge of environmental
protection and consists of members from all the related provincial departments (such as
SPDRC, SPFB, SPEPB). The Leading Group will provide overall guidance and help
resolve key preparation and implementation issues. The organization structure for
implementationis given at the end of the annex, and detailed institutional arrangements
are described below.

TechnicalAssistance Component

3.      The PMOwill provideoverallcoordinationinthe preparationand implementation
of the TA Component. The various subcomponents will be implementedby the various
technical departments of SPEPB, but the beneficiaries of the capacity building and
training will include both SPEPB staff and staff from the concerned municipal and
county environmental protection bureaus as well as the related power plants. Special
service contractors will be hiredto assist inthe implementationofthe TA Component.

InvestmentComponent

4.     The sponsors of each individual power plant will be responsible for their own
project implementation.A project office has been established by each subproject sponsor
and will be responsiblefor technical design, procurement, construction supervision, and
testing and commissioning.The subproject sponsor will own, operate and maintain the
FGD facility.

5.     Two nationaltenderingcompanies have beenengagedto provide assistance in the
processo f internationalcompetitivebidding.




                                             34

6.      Contractors will undertake civil works and the supply and installation of
equipment. Depending on the technical and managerial capability of the individual
project sponsors, the FGD facilities will be supplied either by a contractor with sole
responsibility (including detailed design, supply and installation, commissioning) or by
several suppliers with respective responsibilities for specific package(s). In the latter
case, specializeddesign institutesand contractorswill be hiredto conductdetaileddesign
and installation, while the subproject sponsor will take the overall responsibility for
interfacing and commissioning. Under either case, specialized supervision engineering
firms will be employed to assist in constructionmanagement. Training will be provided
to plant operators for operationand maintenanceof the FGD facilities and the continuous
emissionmonitors(CEM) throughthe TA Component.

7.      The resettlement implementation for Shandong FGD Project will be mainly
carried out by subproject PMOs along with relevant city government agencies. The
provincial PMO will be responsible for coordinationand guidance. To ensure successful
resettlement implementation,a ResettlementLeadingGroup (RLG) will be established in
each project city. The RLG consists of officials from relevant city governments and
project PMOs. Its main responsibilitywill be to strengthen the leadership of the project,
formulate resettlementpolicies, smooth the resettlement implementation,and coordinate
among different government departments. Under the RLG, a resettlement unit within
each PMO will be set up, which will be responsiblefor planning and implementingthe
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Their main responsibilities include: assisting with site
survey; keeping records; organizing consultation and community participation;
developingand implementingthe RAP; managing and allocatingthe resettlement funds;
training resettlement staff at county and township levels; signing compensation
agreements with affected families and villages; and receiving and responding to
grievances from the resettlers. In each affected township, a resettlement working team
will be established, which will work closelywith the city resettlementoffices for carrying
out landacquisitionand resettlement for these power plants.

                              Prqject Organizational Chart




                                           35

          Annex 7. Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
          CHINA: ShandongPower Plant Flue Gas Desulfurization Project


ExecutiveSummary

1.     The FinancialManagement Specialist (FMS) has conductedan assessment of the
adequacy of the project financial management system of the Shandong Power Plant Flue
Gas Desulfurization (FGD) Project. The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the
Financial Management Sector Board on November 3, 2005, has concluded that the
project meets the minimum Bank financial management requirements, as stipulated in
BP/OP 10.02. In the FMS' opinion, the project will maintain financial management
arrangements acceptable to the Bank and, as part of the overall arrangements the
borrower has in place adequate mechanisms that can provide reasonable assurance that
the proceeds o f the loan will be used for the purposes for which the loan was granted.
Financialmanagementrisk is the riskthat World Bank loanproceedswill not be used for
the purposes intended and is a combination of country, sector and project specific risk
factors. Taking into account the risk mitigationmeasures proposedunder the project, the
FMriskratingproposedfor this project duringthe appraisalstage is modest.

2.     Funding sources for the project include Bank loan and counterpart funds. Bank
loanproceedswill flow from the Bank into a designatedaccount (DA) to be set up at and
managed by Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau (SPFB), to various project
implementing entities (PIEs) and finally to contractors or suppliers. The Bank loan
agreement will be signed between the Bank and the People's Republic of China through
its Ministry of Finance (MOF), and onlending agreements for the Bank loan will be
signed between MOF and the Government of Shandong Province through SPFB, then
between SPFB and various PIEs.Counterpartfunds will include equity contributions and
localcommercialbank loans.

3.     No outstandingaudits or audit issues exist with any of the implementingentities
involved in the proposed project. However, the task team will continue to be attentiveto
financial managementmatters duringproject supervisions.

Audit Arrangement

4.     The Bank requiresthat project financial statements be audited in accordance with
standards acceptable to the Bank.In line with other Bank financed projectsin China, the
project will be audited in accordance with International Auditing Standards and the
Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China. The Shandong
Provincial Audit Office has been identified as auditors for the project. Annual audit
reports will be issued by the above audit office and subject to reviews by the China
National Audit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued by
CNAO or provincial/regional audit bureaudoffices for which CNAO is ultimately
responsible.




                                           36

         Audit Report                  Submittedby                   Duedate
Projectfinancial statements      ProvincialPMO (hosted      June 30 of eachcalendar
                                 by SPEPB)                  year


FundsFlow and Disbursement Arrangements

6.      Funds flow for the Bank loan will flow from a designated account (DA) to the
PIEs and finally to contractorsand suppliers.The DA will be established and managedby
SPFB. The authorizedallocationof the DA will be discussed and determinedbetweenthe
Bank and borrowersduring project negotiation.The fwnds flow is as follows:

       I                                              - -
                                         Directpayment


  WorldBank           DAatSPFB -+          MFB, if                                Contractors/
                                          applicable            PIES               Suppliers


7.      SPFB will be directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance
and reconciliation of the DA activities of the project. Withdrawal applications required
for Bank disbursements will be prepared and submittedby respectivePIEs through MFB
if applicable, then approved by SPEPB and finally to SPFB for final verification and
consolidation before sending to the Bank for fwrther disbursement processing.The flow
               - - -
ofthe withdrawalapplicationis as follows:



     PIES              Approved             Approved           Approved
                      byMFB,if             bySPEPB              by SPFB           WorldBank
                                                                            .__*
                       applicable




8.     Counterpartfunds will include equity contributionsfrom PIEs and loans from
domestic commercialbanks.

9.     The Bank loanwould be disbursed against eligibleexpenditures as inTable 7.2.




                                           37

                Table 7.2: DisbursementPercentageto Be Financed
                                         Amount of the Loan          Percentageof
                                               Allocated             Expenditures
              Category                          (US$)               to be financed
 (1) Civilworks, Goods                        49,125,000                  100%
      (a) Huangtai                          14,962,500
      (b) Laiwu                                9,225,000
      (c) Lubei                             14,962,500
      (d) Yantai Bajiao                      9,975,000
 (2) Consultingservices, training,              750,000                   100%
     workshops, study tours
 (3) Front end fee                               125,000
          Total                                50,000,000

10.      Four disbursement methods: reimbursement, advance, direct payment and special
commitment are all available for the project.

11.      For expenditures against contract amounts indicated in Table 7.3, Statements o f
Expenditure (SOEs) will be furnished as supporting documentation to request
reimbursement and reportingeligible expenditures paidfrom the DA
                        Table 7.3: Use of Statements of Expenditure
                                      I     Contracts Equivalent or Less than US$
                                                          Eauivalent                     I
 Civil Works                                               5,000,000
 Goods                                                      500,000
 Firm Consultant                                            200,000
 Individual Consultant                                      50,000
 Training                                                     All

12.      For contract amounts subject to the Bank prior review as indicated in Table 7.4,
the list of payments against the contracts, and records evidencing eligible expenditures,
for example, copies of receipts, supplier invoices, will be furnished as supporting
documentation to request reimbursement and reporting eligible expenditures paid from
the DA.
                         Table 7.4: DisbursementagainstContracts
 Expenditure Category                        ContractsMore than US$ Equivalent
 Civil Works                                               5,000,000
 Goods                                                      500,000
 Firm Consultant                                            200,000
 Individual Consultant                                       50,000




                                            38

FinancialManagementandReportingRequirement

Risk Assessment andMitigation

13.     The following riskswith correspondingmitigatingmeasureshavebeen identified
duringthe assessment:
                          Table 7.5: Summary Risk Assessment
      Risk          Risk                IncorporatedRisk                 Conditionsof
                   Rating              MitigatingMeasures             Negotiations,Board or
                                                                         Effectiveness
InherentRisk
   Country level  Modest    See the following mitigating measures
                            utilized inthe project.
   Entity Level   Modest    Legal and institutionalframeworkis
                            acceptable and current PFM systems are
                            functioningreasonablywell. Since this
                            projectwill be implementedby several
                            PIES,monitoringof compliancewith
                            PFM and Bank procedureswill be
                            important.Various level finance bureaus
                            andPMO involvementwill mitigatesome
                            ofthese risks.Inaddition,the Bank will
                            work with PIESto strengthentheir
                            financialmanagementknowledgeand
                            capacity.
   ProjectLevel   Low       This projectwill be implementedby
                            severalPIESin various cities. Although
                            all PIESare new to Bank financed
                            projects, they are largeand fully
                            commercialized companies. They have
                            strongfinancial managementcapacity and
                            well-established financial management
                            proceduresand practice. To further
                            mitigaterisk at the project level, awell
                            designed training session will be provided
                            to SPEPB and PIESduringthe project
                            launchworkshop to understandBank's
                            requirements.
Control Risk
   Budgeting      Modest    The FMSwill work with the SPEPB on
                            projectbudgeting, execution and
                            monitoring.
   Accounting     Modest    Accountingpoliciesand proceduresare
                            already in place. The Circular#I3 has
                            been issuedby MOF and adoptedfor all
                            World Bank financedprojects.Necessary
                            trainingwill beprovidedto the
                            accounting staffto improvetheir
                            knowledgeand qualifications.




                                             39

                                        Incorporated Risk               Conditions of
                   Rating              Mitigating Measures           Negotiations, Board or
                                                                        Effectiveness
Control Risk
                            Although existinginternalcontrolsare in
    Control                 place at SPEPB and PIEs, they are not
                            specificallyfocused towards the project
                            activities.Therefore, disbursement
                            documentswill bereviewedby finance
                            bureauat various levelsto ensure
                            compliance.
    FundsFlow     LOW       The task team will ensure that
                            mechanisms will be in placeto ascertain
                            Bank loan and counterpartfunds released
                            to the ultimatebeneficiarieson atimely
                            basis and avoid a bottleneck in
                            disbursements.Additionally, SPFB is
                            very experiencedwith Bank-financed
                            projects.
    Financial     Low       The format and content offinancial
    Reporting               statements have been stipulated by MOF.
                            SPEPB will use them for projectfinancial
                            reporting.
0   Auditing      Low       The external auditor, Shandong
                            ProvincialAudit Office, has extensive
                            experiencewith previous Bank projects.

14.    Therefore, the overall FM risk rating of this project at the appraisal stage is
modest. The FMSwill monitorthe project FMrisk duringproject implementation.

Strengthsand Weaknesses

15.    Strengths. With significant experience in managing and implementing Bank
financed projects, Shandong province, as a whole, has strong institutional capacity for
preparation and implementation of Bank financed projects. SPFB has been managing
several Bank-financed projects in urban environment and agriculture areas and has
accumulated extensive experience in financial management and disbursement. All PIES
are commercial entitieswith solid financial management experience. This will benefit the
implementationof this project.

16.     Weaknessesand Action Plan. SPEPB is relatively new to Bank-financedprojects
and all PIEs do not have experience in Bank-financed projects. Training will be held
duringthe project launchworkshop on projectdisbursementand financial management.

Implementing Entities

17.    A Project Leading Group (PLG) has been established at the provincial level to
provide overall guidance and coordination. The PLG is headed by the Provincial Vice
Governor in charge of environmentalprotection and comprises members from all related
provincial departments. SPEPB has been designated as the main project implementation



                                            40

agency by the Provincial Government. A Project Management Office (PMO) has been
established within SPEPB to coordinate the project preparation and implementation,
including subproject selection. The SPEPB is also the key counterpart for the
implementationofthe TA Component.

The projectorganizationchart is listedbelow:

                                              PLG


                                          PMOBPEPB


                                      4 subproject entities


Budgeting

18.     Although the cost table has been prepared for the project and the project will
prepare its annual implementing plan, the budgetingsystem within the project will need
to be well maintained or monitored. The FMS will work with the SPEPB and related
entitiesto improvetheir budgetingsystem duringproject implemenation.

Accounting

19.    The administration, accounting and reporting of the project will be set up in
accordance with the Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed
Projects" issued in January 2000 by MOF. The circular provides in-depth instructionsof
accountingtreatment of projectactivitiesand covers the following:


    0  Charts ofaccounts
    0  Detailedaccountinginstructionsfor eachprojectaccount
    0  Standard set of projectfinancial statements
    0  Instructionson the preparationofproject financial statements

20.    The above standard set of project financial statements has been agreed between
the Bank and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and
includes:


    0  Balancesheet
    0  Statementof sources and usesoffund by project components
    0  Statement of implementationof loan agreement
    0  Statement of designated account
    0  Notesto the financial statements



                                           41

21.     SPEPB will be managing, monitoring and maintaining the project accounting
records and will be responsible for preparing project financial statements and sending
these to the Bank for review and comments on a regular basis. Original supporting
documents for projectactivitieswill be retainedby the PIES.

22.     Adequate project accounting staff with educational background and work
experience commensurate with the work they are expected to perform is one of the
factors critical to successhl implementationof project financial management. Based on
discussions, observation and review of educational background and work experience of
the staff identifiedfor financial and accountingpositions inthe implementingentities, the
task team note that the financial staff are qualified for the work they are expected to
assume.

23.     SPEPB will manuallyrecordand maintainthe project accountingbooks.The task
team will monitor the accountingprocess especially duringthe initial stage to ensure that
completeand accurate financial informationwill be providedin a timely manner.

Internal Control and Internal Auditing

24.     The project has established internal control procedures and policies, including
approval and authorization controls, segregation of duties, clear staff functions, and
safeguarding of assets. The hnds flow will be arranged and monitored through the
financebureauchannels and will includetheir substantive review.

25.     Each finance bureau has its own internal inspectiondivision, which will function
as the internal audit for this project, by conducting compliance and transaction oriented
examinationson regular basis. During project implementation,the FMS will review their
projectexaminationreportsanddeterminewhether the Bank can rely on their work.

Financial Reporting

26.    The related accounting policy, procedures and regulations were issued by MOF
and the projectwill follow these documents.

27.    There is no formal independent Internal Audit department for the project.
However, this will not have an impact on the project's financial management as SPFB
and SPEPB's management and monitoring and annual external audits will serve as the
mechanismto ensure that financial managementcontrols are fimctioning appropriately.

Conditionality

28.    There are no additional financial covenants proposed by the FMS other than the
standard financial covenants (for example, maintaining project accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices and audit requirement), as described in the legal
document.




                                            42

Supervision Plan

29.    The supervision strategy for this project is based on its FM risk rating, which will
be evaluatedon a regular basis by the FMS and in consulation with the relevant task team
leader.




                                           43

                       Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
          CHINA: ShandongPowerPlant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject


General

 1.    Procurement for the proposedproject would be carried out in accordancewith the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoansand IDA Credits" dated May
2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004 and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreements. The
various items under different expenditurecategories are described in general below. For
each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification,estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the
ProcurementPlan.The ProcurementPlanwill be updatedat least annually, or as required,
to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity.

2.     Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project would include: civil
works and equipment installation of FGD facilities in Huangtai Power Plant, and civil
works of FGD facilities in Yantai Bajiao Power Plant. Procurement will follow National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) and post qualification procedures, using the Model Bidding
Documents (MBD) issuedby MOF inMay 1997(and agreedwith the Bank).

3.     Procurement of Goods: Goods procuredunder this projectwould include: (a) flue
gas systems, SO2 systems, electrical systems, and utility systems of FGD in Huangtai
Power Plant, Laiwu Power Plant, and Yantai Bajiao Power Plant (all the three plants are
under the Luneng Group). Procurement will be conducted following the International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedure using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
(SBD) for Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment (June 2007), or SBD for
Procurement of Goods (May 2007) or subsequent versions, or following NCB procedure,
using the Model Bidding Documents (MBD) issued by MOF in May 1997 (and agreed
with the Bank); (b) FGD systems in Lubei Power Plant. Procurement will follow ICB
turnkey procedure using the Bank's SBD for Supply and Installation of Plant and
Equipment (June 2007) or subsequent version; and (c) air quality monitoringinstruments
will be procured through NCB or Shopping Procedures using Quotation Requesting
Documents satisfactoryto the Bank. In addition, the proceduresto be followed for NCB
shall be those set forth in the Law on Tenderingand Bidding of the People's Republic of
China promulgatedby Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of China
on August 30, 1999.

Procurement of Nonconsulting Services: NA

4.     Selection of Consultants: Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost
less than US$300,000 equivalent per contract (if any) may be composed entirely of
nationalconsultants in accordancewith the provisions of paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines. The TA component would includethe following activities: capacity building


                                          44

and enhancement in emission monitoring and regulation enforcement; technical and
managerial training; and development of related regulations, procedures and policies.
Each activity will include multiple contracts with either firms or individuals. No large
contracts (US$200,000 or above) are expected. CQS procedures will be followed for
consultant(firm) selectionfor contracts below US$200,000.

OperatingCosts: NA

Others: NA

5.     The procurement procedures and SBDs for ICB and MBD for NCB to be used for
each procurement method, as well as modelquotationrequestingdocuments and contract
documents for Shopping procedure are presented in the ProjectProcurement Manual.

Summary of ProcurementAssessment

6.     Procurement activities will be carried out by each power plant or entity and the
procurementagents coordinatedby the provincial PMO. The procurementstaff has been
assigned in each power plant or entity and Ms. Zhang Chen in the provincial PMO is
responsiblefor procurement coordination.

7.     An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agencies to implement
procurement actions for the project was carried out by Dawei Yang in June 2006 and
completed in September 2006. The assessment reviewedthe organizational structure for
implementing the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for
procurement in the power plants or entities and the provincial PMO. The procurement
agents havebeenselected after the assessment.

8.     The key issues and risks concerning procurement for implementation of the
project have been identified as less experience on the Bank procurement policy and
procedures of the procurement staff; quality of bidding documents under turnkey
approach may be low as both procurement agent and project entities have a lack of
experience with turnkey approach. The corrective measures which have been agreed
include: preparation and distribution o f procurement manual; training of procurement
staff by attending workshops and seminars; and expert review of bidding documents,
particularly the technical specifications. The Bank procurement specialist based in
Beijing will provide guidance on a regular basis. Initial procurement training has been
providedduringthe projectpreparationand more trainingwill be providedas needed.

9.     The overallproject risk for procurementis assessedas average.




                                          45

Procurement Arrangements

General

10.     The Borrower has developed a procurement plan for project implementation
which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed
between the Borrower and the Project Team in November 2006 and is available at
provincial PMO office in Jinan, Shandong. It will also be available in the project's
database and on the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in
agreement with the Project Team annually, or as required to reflect the actual project
implementationneedsand improvementsin institutionalcapacity.

Goods, Works,and NonconsultingServices

   (a) List o f contractpackagesto be procuredfollowing ICB, NCB and Shopping:
        (No prequalificationand domestic preference for works under the project)

             Table 8.1: ProcurementArrangements-Goods       and Civil Works
    I                2                 3         4       5            6           7
                                                       Review                 Estimated
                                   Estimated  Procure- by Bank  Expected bid-   cost
                                   cost (CNY   ment     (prior/ opening date (US$million
 Re$ no.    Contract (description)  million)  method    POSO    (yeadquarter) equivalent)
Lubei Power Co.Ltd
   LB1     Lubei FGDturnkey           168       ICB     Prior      200812         21
                                              Goods
YantaiBajiao Power Plant
   BJ1     Bajiao FGD                64.6       ICB     Prior      200814         8
           Equipment                          Goods
   BJ2     Bajiao Electrical           5        ICB     Prior      200814        0.6
           Supply                             Goods
   BJ3     Bajiao FGD civil            12      NCB       Post      200814        1.5
           works                              Works
           Bajiao Total              81.7                                       10.1
Huangtai ThermalPower Plant
   H T I   Huangtai Flue Gas         23.0      ICB      Prior      200813        2.9
           system                             Goods
   HT2     Huangtai SO2 System       24.2      ICB      Prior      200813        3.O
                                              Goods
  HT3      Huangtai FGD utility 1     7.9      ICB      Prior      200813        1.O
                                              Goods
  HT4      Huangtai FGD Civil        62.2      NCB      Prior      200813        7.8
           Works                              Works
           Huangtai Total           117.4                                       14.7
Laiwu Thermal Power Plant
           15NCB equipment            25       NCB     2 Prior     200714        3.3
           contracts                                   13 Post


   (b) ICB Goods contracts estimated to cost above US$0.5 million per contract and
        NCB Works contracts above US$5 million, the first NCB and Shoppingcontract


                                            46

      for each category (regardless of value), and all direct contracting (if any) will be
      subject to prior review by the Bank. All Goods contracts above US$0.5 million,
      Works contracts above US$15 million (not anticipated under the project) will be
      procured through ICB procedures. All Goods contracts between US$O.1 million
      and US$0.5 million, Works contracts between US$0.2 million and US$l5 million
      will be procured through NCB procedure. All Goods contracts below US$O.1
      million, Works contracts below US$0.2 million (not anticipated under the project)
      will be procuredthrough Shopping procedure.

Consulting Services

  (a) List o f consulting assignmentsand training:

7              Table 8.2: Procurement Arrangements-Consultin Services
                                            -
                                             4            5            6           7
                                                       Review      Expected
                                                       by Bank     Proposals
Ref.    Descriptionof       Estimated     Selection    (Prior I   Submission
No.       Assignment        cost (US$)     Method        Post)       Date       Comment
TAl  Capacity building       400,000      Multiple     TOR for      To be       Multiple
     and enhancement in                 contracts of     prior    determined    contracts
     emissionmonitoring                individuals&    review
     and regulation                     firms (CQS)
r    enforcement
TA2  Technical and            300,000     Multiple     TOR for      To be       Multiple
     managerialtraining                 contracts of     prior    determined    contracts
                                       individuals&    review
                                        firms (CQS)
TA3  Developmentof           300,000      Multiple     TOR for      To be       Multiple
     relatedregulations,                contracts of     prior    determined    contracts
     proceduresand                     individuals&    review
      olicies                           firms (CQS)

  (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$200,000 for a firm and
      US$50,000 for individual consultant per contract and single source selection of
      consultants (firms) for assignments regardless of cost will be subject to prior
      review by the Bank. All contracts above US$200,000 for a firm shall follow
      QCBS/QBS procedures and will be advertised on United Nations Development
      Business on-line and on dgMarket inaddition to local newspaper(s).

  (c) Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$300,000
      equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in
      accordancewith the provisions o f paragraph2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.

  (d) The detailed design of the TA component is being finalized. The Procurement
      Plan will be updatedaccordingly.




                                           47

BankPrior Review Thresholds


                                Table 8.3: Prior Review Thresholds

ExpenditureCategory            Contract Value             Procurement      Contracts Subjectto Prior
                            Threshold (US%'OOO)             Method              Review(US%'OOO)

Goods (includingsupply             >500                        ICB            500 (all ICB contracts)
& installation contracts)         100-500                     NCB            First NCB contract only
                                   4 0 0                    Shopping       First Shopping contractonly

                                    N A                 Direct Contracting    All contracts (if any)
                                                       ~

Works (including                  215,000                      ICB                     5,000
equipment installation)   I

                                  45,000                      NCB           5,000; first NCB contract
                                                                                regardlessof value
                                   <200           I         Shopping        Firs contract regardlessof
                                                                                       value
                                    N A                 Direct Contracting    All contracts (ifany)
Consultantservices                 2200                   QCSS, QBS                2200 for firms

                                   <200                        CQS
                         II         N A                        sss        I        All contracts       I
                                                                                 ~~




                                    N A           II            IC        I             250

      ICB:       International Competitive Bidding
      NCB:       National Competitive Bidding
      QCBS:      Quality and Cost BasedSelection
      QBS:       Quality BasedSelection
      CQS:       SelectionBasedon Consultant's Qualifications
      IC:        Individual Consultants
      SSS:       Single Source Selection




                                                 48

                       Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
          CHINA: ShandongPowerPlant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject


EconomicAnalysis

1.      Each subproject was subjected to an examination of its economic and financial
feasibility. To the extent possible, both direct and external economic benefits and costs
were identified and quantified. Benefit proxies identified in the economic analysis are
the avoided environmental damage costs of reduced SO, emissions and the sales of by-
products. The avoided pollution levy on SO, emissions and the incremental electricity
tariff revenues for power plants with operational FGD systems constitute the major
financial benefitsto the project companies. Both economic benefits and costs (including
an allowance for physical contingencies) were valued at 2006 price levels.

Economic Costs

2.      The main economic costs are the FGD installation and operation costs which
include construction capital costs, operations and maintenance costs (O&M), as well as
the external costs of operating FGD systems. Capital cost covers the cost of purchasing
and installing FGD equipments, the cost of land acquisition and any associated
resettlement ifrequired by a subproject. O&M costs have been calculated for the project
period up to 20 years following commissioning. Both fixed capital cost and O&M cost
have been adjusted to remove the effects of inflation, duties, and taxes. The power used
to operate FGD (1-2 percent of gross output) represents a real economic cost and
therefore is taken into account inthe analysis.

3.      While the operation of a FGD facility significantly reduces SO, emissions, for
two reasons it marginally increasesgreenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The first is related
to the stoichiometry of the limestone process (which produces CO, as a byproduct), but
which is trivial in comparison to the overall carbon balance, and can therefore be
ignored. The second, which reducesthe ERRby about 1.1 percent when carbon is valued
at US$lO/ton CO;! (which corresponds to the current value of typical carbon finance
transactions), is relatedto the additional power that is required to operate FGD systems.

Economic Benefits

4.      The principal benefit of FGD is the avoidance of environmental damage costs
from the reduction of SO, emissions and other air pollutants. This includes the avoided
damage to human health, species, buildings, farming and forestry. SO, is a primary
contributor to acid rain. It has been well established that acid air pollution causes
respiratory problems in humans, especially children, the elderly and people with asthma.
It has also been widely observed that acid rain causes damage to natural ecological
systems (such as forestry and river system), agricultural production, and property.

5.      Valuing external environmental damage costs is a challenge, however. There are
a number of studies that quantify environmental costs of SO, in monetary terms in


                                            49

China, but none of them is specific to Shandong. The valuation of environmental
benefits follows closelythe economic analysis o f the China RenewableEnergy Scale-up
Program(CRESP), which was supported by the World Bank.The unit costs of TSP, SO,
and NOx used in CRESP are presented in Table 9.1. One may note that a significant
portion of the environmental damage costs of power generation in Shandong occur in
other (nearby)provinces,as a consequenceof atmospheric transport.

      Table 9.1: Damage costs, US$/ton emissions in Shandong (at 1999 price levels)

                                 Total damage       Y/ton      Damage cost YOofdamage
                               cost(l),US$/ton                  inShandong        costs in
                                                                  US$/ton        Shandong
                    TSP                   1,332      10,656               270            20.3
                    so2                       311     2,488                 54           17.5
                    NOx                       335     2,680                 69           20.7
                      (I) Includingdamage costsinShandong, Hebei,Henan, Beijing, Tianjin, andJiangsu
                     Source: World Bank, CRESPEconomic Analysis, Vol 1,2002



6.      Compared with the estimates of other studies (shown in Tables 9.2 and 9.3) on
the environmental impacts of SO, in China, the CRESP estimates are lower and more
conservative.For example, Table 9.2 shows the damage cost estimates for SO2 derived
by Zhou et. al. (1999).

              Table 9.2: Damage estimates for SOzby region in China, in Y/ton
                    North        Northeast West           Southeast South           East       Middle
          Low       2500         2800          1300       1500          3900        3300       1700
          High      3000         3000          1500       6000          8000        8000       6000
            Source:Zhou Fengqi and Zhou Dadi, and others, China Long- and Mid-Term Energy Strategy, ChinaPlanning Press,
            1999.



7.     A World Bank study on acid rain in Hunan Province3derived the damage cost
estimates shown in Table 9.3. These amounts are based on estimates of crop and forest
damage because of decreasedyields, and human healtheffects based on boththe human
capital approach, and the willingness-to-pay approach. The damage cost is about 20
percent greater than CRESP (for 1999/2000).

                   Table 9.3: SOzDamage cost estimates for Hunan Province
                                         1995            2000      2005          2010        2015       2020
      Ylion                             2,384           3,022      3,912         4,884       5,736      6,595
      Annual rate of increase                           4.9%       5.3%          4.5%        3.3%       2.8%
      CRESP (Table 1.3)                                 2,488
      Source World Bank/ESMAP, 2003, Zhou Fengqi and Zhou Dadi, and others, China Long- and Mid-Term Energy
      Strategy, China PlanningPress, 1999




World BanWSMAP, China: Air Pollution andAcid Rain Control: The case of Shijiazhuang City and the
Changsha TriangleArea, October 2003.


                                                       50

8.     These values increase over time because damage costs increase as per capita
GDP increases. Shandong presentlyhas one ofChina's highest annual GDP growth rates
(15 percent in 2005), second only to Guangdong, so the increases in damage costs
hypothesizedin the Hunanstudy are quite conservative, even given that 15 percent GDP
growth rates are very unlikely to be sustained over the entire project lifetime. In this
study it is assumed that the baseline damage cost estimates escalate by a constant 3.5
percent per year.

9.     The CRESP damage cost estimates are at the low end of the range of current
damage cost estimates, and therefore provide a conservative estimate of economic
returns.They were adopted inthe economic analysis ofthe FGDproject.

10.    The CRESP values havethe advantage that they take into account the locationof
the damage cost reductions, so the beneficiaries are identified more clearly in the
analysis. This shows that a significant portion o f the damage costs of power generation
in Shandong is incurred in nearby provinces as a consequence of atmospheric transport
(particularly in Hebei, Henan, Beijing, Tianjin, and Jiangsu). Only about 17 percent of
the damage cost is in Shandong itself.The damage cost from sulfur dioxide in Shandong
is US$54 per ton according to the result from CRESP study. Obviously, Shandong
benefitsfrom SO2 emissionreductionsinthese other provinces.

11.    In additionto the environmentalbenefits (which account for the bulk of the total
present value of the typical benefit stream), a second economic benefit derives from the
production of gypsum. The economic value is assessed at the current market price
(whichbeing in high demand in Shandong, is unlikely to fall in price as a result of most
ofthe subprojects offering gypsum for sale).

Evaluation

12.    The economic values of the project is the sum of the benefits of the avoided
health damage cost and the sales of by-products, less fixed capital cost, O&M costs and
the damage from GHG generated by the project. The aggregate economic costs and
benefits over years were calculated and summarized by subcomponent, as shown in
Table9.4. The aggregate ERR ofthe entireproject is 24.5 percent.


                      Table 9.4: Aggregate economic returns


   Huangtai     19.9%   159    -77   -46  -31   30    32  34  36   38    40 43    45
   Lubei        23.5%   234    -80   -48  -32   42    44  46  48   50    53 55    58
   Bajiao       20.1%   120    -54   -33  -22   21    22  24  25   27    29 31    33
   Lai Wu       32.1%   423    -77   -46  -31   63    66  69  72   76    79 83    86
   Total        24.5%   935   -289 -173 -116 156 164 173 182 191 201 211 221



13.    These high economic returns reflect the high environmentalcost of uncontrolled
emissions. The ERR by component varies from 20 to 32 percent, and all subprojects



                                           51

 have their ERR above the hurdle level acceptable to the GOC (for example, the 10
 percent discount rate for investment projects recommended by NDRC in 2002) and
 therefore they are economically justified for investment. Sensitivity analysis further
 shows that the favorable economic returns are robust given the range of uncertainty in
 key input assumptions.

Sensitivity Analysis

 14.     Given the uncertainty of some parameters used in the cost-benefit analysis,
 sensitivityanalysis is essential and, therefore, has been conductedfor a few components
 to test the robustness of the results of the economic analysis. The analysis includes risk
 assessments on key variables such as construction cost, O&M cost, sulfur content in
 coal, sulfur reduction efficiency of FGD, and gypsum price. The sensitivity analysis
 shows that the switching values for sulfur content of the coal-the       most important
 determinant of ERR-all      lie below the lowest sulfur coal available in the region.
 Therefore, the project is sound even if there were major changes in the allocation of
 coals to the different subprojects. Similarly, the switching values for construction cost
 overruns show very high and unlikely values, and returns are also robust with respect to
 lower than expected SO, removalperformance (with switchingvalues typically less than
 40 percent). The estimated returns are robust with respect to uncertainties in key input
 assumptions.

 15.     The ERR is also robustwith respect to the value assignedto C02 emissions. The
 baseline ERR falls from 24.5 percent to 23.3 percent when carbon is valued at $lO/ton
 C02, and to 21.8 percent valued at $20/ton.


Impact on the Poor

 16.     Since the FGDprojectwill cause a very small increase in the electricitytariff, the
 impacts of tariff increases on low income groups were reviewed. The project may
 potentially affect poor households in two ways. The first is the large improvementin air
 quality, leading to significant benefits to health and longevity. The second is the very
 small increase in the electricity tariff (consequent to the Y 0.015 per kWh increase that
 generatingprojectswith FGDcan levy).

 17.     Estimating the impact on the poor is difficult because of the lack of billing
 frequency information, the uncertainty about the share of total residential electricity
consumed by the poor, and the lack of detailed survey information that would reveal
what proportion of the poor have access to grid electricity. In general, it would be true
that the poor consume very little electricity, in part because many have no access, and
those that do have access consume only smallamounts.

 18.     According to the Shandong Poverty Alleviation Office, there are 2.4 million
people living below the poverty threshold of Y 1,000 per capita income per year. Three
percent of households are assumed to fall in this poverty category. It is assumed that a
poor household consumes 15 kWh per month, while that of the non poor is 80



                                             52

kWh/month.The overallaverage tariff increase is Y 0.0016 per kWh (0.29 percent ofthe
average residentialtariff of Y 0.5469 per kWh). The calculation of the tariff impact on
the poor is shown inTable 9.5.
                         Table 9.5: Impact of tariff increases on the poor


              Consumption          [KWh/HH/month]             15       80
                                   [kWh/year]                180      960
              Households           [million HH]             0.65    21.75   22.4
              total consumption    [GWh]                     117    20883  21000
              tariff increase      [YikWh]                0.0016   0.0016
                                   [Y/year]                  0.3       1.5
              Total                [Ym]                      0.3      32.8  33.0

19.     The impact of tariff increaseson the poor is shown inTable 9.5. Ofthe total Y33
million annual tariff impact on the residential sector, the poor account for only Y 0.3
million in aggregate, or an almost immeasurable Y 0.2 per household per year. It is
concludedthat the tariff impact on the poor is negligible. This project is not a poverty
alleviation project (that would direct benefits disproportionatelyto the poor). However,
one should be confidentthat there is no negative impacton the poor by the project.

Financial Analysis

20.     Financial analysis was conducted for each project component to check the
financial viability of the project.Different from economic analysis, the project financial
analysis assesses the impacts of the project on the financial flows of project entities
ratherthan economic returnsto the entire society. This sectionsummarizes the resultsof
financial analysis done based on the feasibility studies of each component prepared by
project entities; that is, power companies. Dataused in this report were mainly provided
in the feasibility study reports. All major assumptions are consistent with the current
Chinese financial and taxation regulations as well as common practices in the project
areas. The analysis uses constant 2006 prices and takes into account the changes in
taxes, pollution fees, and electricity tariffs which affect the financial flows of project
entities.

Financial Revenues

21.     The revenue streams arise from project implementation: (a) the avoidedpollution
levy payments for SO, emissions, at a rate of Y633/ton SO, in Shandong, (b) the sale of
by-productsproduced in the desulfurizationprocess (for example, gypsum in the case of
limestone FGD at the selling price of Y 40 per ton), (c) the incremental power tariff
revenue for electricity generated at plants with FGD which represents a price increment
of Y 0.01YkWh (about 5 percent ofthe typical generation priceof Y 0.25-0.3 per kWh).

Financial Costs

22.     Financial costs are those recorded in the books of project entities as expenses.
They consist of (a) fixedkapital cost of retrofit (construction) expense for an existing
project including the tax to the government, and (b) variable operational and


                                               53

maintenance (O&M) cost such as labor cost, water cost, limestone/magnesiumcost,
solid waste disposalcost, and the extra energy used to operate a FGD system (typically
1-2 percent, as forgone revenue loss, o f the amount of total power that i s generated and
can be sold). Corporate tax rate is assumed at 33 percent, without any tax concession.
Local taxes such as education surcharge and urban maintenance tax are levied as a
percentage of value added tax (VAT). VAT is calculated on the recognized revenue to
provide the basis for the local tax calculation. However, since the company itself can be
considered to be VAT neutral, VAT itself does not appear in any of the other tables of
the model. Depreciation is taken as straight-line over 15 years with 5 percent residual
value.

Financial Returns and Evaluation Results

23.     The financial returns can be calculatedin the following two ways. The first is to
measure the financial rate of return(FRR) to the investor's equity. In the stream of cash
flows for which FRR is calculated, the negativeflows during the constructionyears are
limited to the contributions made by the developers; during the operating phase, the
(negative) cash flows reflect debt service payments actually made (which are a function
ofthe financial structure, loanterms, and interestrates). All other things beingequal, the
smaller the equity contribution,the higher the FRR. This is the definition of FRR that is
usedby the project developers.

24.    The second is the FRR independentof financial structure.This i s the way that the
World Banktraditionally evaluates the financial returnsfor public sector projects.Inthis
calculation,the entire investmentappears as negativeentries in the cash flows duringthe
construction period (rather than as the costs of debt service during operation). The
assumption is that the financial cost of capital is the same as the discount rateused in the
economic analysis (and indeed differs from the economic analysis only to the extent of
taxes, duties and transfer payments). Ingeneral, the FRR independent of capital structure
will be lower than that ofthe FRRto the developer'sequity.

25.    Bothapproaches were usedinthe financial analysis.But only the FRR calculated
from the second approach are presented below. Table 9.6 shows that the FRR varies by
subproject from 10 percent to 20 percent, and all are satisfactory. The FRR to the
developers' equity shows that the returnsare above the average cost of capital.
                          Table 9.6: Estimatedfinancial returns
                                                   FRR (%)
                                 Huangtai             10
                                 Lubei               20
                                 Bajiao               11
                                 Lai Wu               12

26.    The detailed results of financial analysis by project component can be found in
the full report of the project. As an illustration the results for Lubei are briefly
summarizedbelow




                                            54

Lubei Subproject

27.    The Lubei subproject proposed by the Shandong Lubei Power Generation Co.
Ltd. has two FGD systems for the anticipated 2 X 300 MW coal-fired units. The wet
limestoneprocess has been proposed for FGD. Gypsum from the FGD is intendedto be
used for productionofsulfuric acid, while fly ashwill be sold for cement production.




           ProposedProcess                                    Limestone FGD
           Total Financial Flow [Y million]
             Total NPV Revenue                                      245.6
             Total NPV Cost                                         214.4
             =Total NPV Financial Flows                              31.2
           FRR (to equity)                                           19.9%
           Financial flows (independentof financial structure,        2.8

           FRR (to financial structure)                              12.3%




                                              55

                                    Table 9.8: LubeiDeveloper Cash Flows


                                                        NPV       1-21  1-11  PJ     111   121   131   141   151   fl
                                                                 2005  2006  2007   2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013
        Revenues
        tariffincrement                 0.015 Wmllion]     196.5                    46.4  46.4  46.4  46.4  46.4  46.4
        sales ofgypsum                     40 IVitonl
                                        100% IYmUionl        8.5                     2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
        avoided emissionstax              633 p'nillion]    40.6                     9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6
        total revenue                         p'nillion]  245.6    0.0   0.0   0.0  58.0  58.0  58.0  58.0  58.0  58.0
       perron SO2 removed
        tariffincrement                       Iv/@nl                                3064  3064  3064  3064  3064  3064
        gypsum                                WtonI                                  133   133   133   133   133   133
[IO] emissionstax                             luiW                                   633   633   633   633   633   633
[Illtotal                                     WbnI                                  3830  3830  3830  3830  3830  3830
[I21
[I31 Costs
[14] lked O&M costs                       4.8 VniUion]     -20.2                    -4.8  -4.8  -4.8  -4.8  -4.8  -4.8
[ I S ] variable O&Mcosts                     p'nillion]     0.0                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
[I61 major overhauls                      0.0 nill lion]     0.0                                 0.0               0.0
[I71 local taxes                              pinillion]    -3.5                    -0.8  -0.8  -0.8  -0.8  -0.8  -0.8
[I81 solid waste disposalcost               0 [Ymllion]      0.0                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
[I91 water                                  7 p'nillion]   -16.3                    -3.9  -3.9  -3.9 -3.85  -3.9  -3.9
[20] limestone                             80 NrnUionl
                                              .        .    -9.3                    -2.2  -2.2  -2.2 -2.19  -2.2  -2.2
[21] elecricity [@foregone revenue]     0 25 p'mllion]     -46.5                   -11.0 -11.0 -11.0 -11.0 -11.0 -11.0
[22] total FGD operating cost                 p'mllion]    -95 8                   -22.6 -22.6 -22.6 -22.6 -22.6 -22.6
[23]     perron SO2 removed                  ly ion1                               -1493 -1493 -1493 -1493 -1493 -1493
~241
(251 debt service principal                  p'mllion]     -32.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  -8.8  -8.8  -8.8  -8.8  -8.8  -8.8
[26] debt service interest                   P(mLon1       -15.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  -6.3  -5.8  -5.3  -4.8  -4.3  -3.9
[27] construction uses ofJunds
[28]      consauctiondisbursements           rYniUion1 -115.9    -87.8 -52.7 -35.1
[29]      IDC (capitalised)                  p'mllion]       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
[30] construction sourcesoffunds
[31] debt: local I:Yuan                 5.5% VniUionl       75.3  57.1  34.2  22.8
[32] debt: local2: Yuan                 6.8% VniUionl       0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0
[33] debt: FOREX I:P                    0.0% VniUionl       0.0    0.0  0.0   0.0
[34] deb/:FOREX 2: S                    0.0% p'mllion]       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
[35] Cqitdsubsidy                            p'mllionl       0.0   0.0  0.0    0.0
[36] total costs                             Vnillionl   -183.4  -30.8 -18.5 -12.3 -37.6 -37.2 -36.7 -36.2 -35.7 -35.2
[371
[38] total financial flows, before tax       VniUionl       62.3 -30.8 -18.5 -12.3  20.3  20.8  21.3  21.8  22.2  22.7
[39] income tax                              IYmllionl     -31.1                    -6.1  -6.3  -6.4  -6.6  -6.8  -6.9
[401 financial flows, after tax              pmllionl     31.1  -30.8 -18.5 -12.3  14.2  14.5  14.8  15.2  15.5  15.8
[41] FIRRnominal                             [ I          19.9%
[42] independenr of c@td structure
[43] total financial costs                   [Ymillioi   -242.8   -88   -53   -35    -29   -29   -29   -29   -29   -30
[44] levelised costltonS02                   [Y/tonS(     3786
[451                                         [%US/toi      458
1461 total financial flows                   lymilliol      2.8   -88   -53   -35   29.2  29.1  28.9  28.8  28.6  28.5




                                                                 56

FinancialIndicators of Power Plants

29.    To assess the financial soundness and debt servicing capacity of each power
plant after the installation of FGDs, financial analysis was carried out for each power
and heat plant based on the latest feasibility studies prepared by the project sponsors.
The results ofthe analysis are provided in Table 9.9.



            Powerplant                  FRR (%)        Paybackperiod (years)
            Lubei                        12.3                  10.5
            Bajiao                       8.9                   10.6
            Laiwu                        7.9                   11.6
            Huangtai                     8.7                   10.7

30.    Table 9.9 shows that the FRR (independent of the financial structure) of the
power and heat plant varies from 7.9 percent to 12.3 percent, all higher than the
investors' hurdle rate of 6.0 percent. The payback periods of the individual and heat
plants vary from 10.5 years to 11.6 years, indicating sound financial viability of all the
power plants.




                                           57

                Annex 10A: SafeguardPolicy Issues (ResettlementAspects)
          CHINA: ShandongPowerPlant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject

1.      This annex is based on ResettlementAction Plans (RAPs) preparedby two power
plants under the Shandong FGD Project.They are drafted in accordance with the related
laws and regulations issued by the People's Republic of China, the SPG, and the
provisions from the World Bank Operation Guideline on Involuntary Resettlement
(OP4.12). The purpose of compiling these documents is to develop action plans for the
project affectedpeople to ensurethat they will benefit fiom the project, and improveor at
least reinstatetheir living standard after resettlement.

ResettlementImpacts

2.      The proposed Shandong FGD Project will finance FGD facilities for four power
plants in Shandong Province. Two will be newly constructedpower plants(YantaiBajiao
and Laiwu), and two will be new units within existing power plants (Huangtai and
Lubei). For the two existing ones, constructionof FGD facilities will be located within
the existingpower plantswith no new land acquisition and resettlement.For the two new
power plants, the construction of power plants, including FGD facilities will involve a
certain amount of landacquisition and resettlement.

3.      The Yantai Bajiao Power Plant is located in Yantai Economic Technical
Development District of Yantai Municipality. The power plant, including ash yard and
special railway line, will acquire a total of 80.1 ha of land, affecting 12 villages in 2
subdistricts. The Laiwu Power Plant is locatednextto the existingLaiwu Thermal Power
Plant. It will acquire a total of 20.5 ha of land for both power plant site and ash site. All
of the area to be acquired belongs to Duixianmen Village in Gaozhuang Subdistrict in
Laiwu City. According to the RAPs prepared by the two project PMOs, a total of 100.6
ha of land will be acquired for these projects of which 67.5 ha or 67.1 percent are
farmland. The landacquisitionwill affect 13 villages, 3 townships and two cities. During
project construction, another 27 haor 405 mu of landwould be occupiedtemporarily.


 Table 10 (A). 1: LandAcquisitionfor ThreeNewPowerPlantsUnderShandongFGDProject(mu)

  Projects     PermanentLand       Of Which:    OfWhich:    Temporary Land     OfWhich:
                  Acquisition      Farmland       Orchard     Occupation       Farmland
   Yantai            1,201            850          261           405              172
   Laiwu              308             163           0              0               0
   Total            1,509            1,013         261           405              172
Source:ThreeProjectPMOs. (1 ha= 15 mu)

4.      In addition to land acquisition, a total of 274 households and 743 personswill be
physically relocated (Table 10 (A) 2). All of them are located in Duixianmen Village
fiom Gaozhuang Subdistrict in Laiwu City. A total of 46,120 square meters of structures
will be demolished. Most of them are privately owned houses. In addition, a range of


                                              58

personal assets and farming facilities will also be affected during the construction of
these power plants. All affected people will be compensated with replacement value or
have propertyrestored by the project sponsors under the resettlementprograms.

            Table 10(A).2: Scope ofResettlementImpactsfor ShandongFGD Project
  Projects           Acquired        Affected Peopleby        RelocatedHouseholds           AffectedFloor
                  Farmland (mu)            land loss *        (Affected Individuals)         Spaces (m')

   Yantai                850                  315                       0 (0)                     0
   Laiwu                 163                  543                     274 (743)                46,120
   Total               1,013                  858                     274 (743)                46,120
Note: Here, number of affected people is also called number of people requiring economic rehabilitation,
which is obtained by dividingthe amount of farmland lossper capita in each affected village.
Source: Three Project PMOS.

Social Economic Condition of the Project Areas

5.       According to the social economic survey, because there are no ethnic minorities
among the 13 affected villages, the Bank IndigenousPeople Policy will not apply to the
project.The two power plants are located in three different cities in Shandong Province.
All ofthem are consideredto be relatively developed regions in the province, particularly
in Yantai where per capita annual income reached Y 5,144 in 2005, which is 31 percent
higher than provincial average (Y 3,930). For Laiwu, per capita income in rural areas is
around Y 4,300, which is higher than the provincial average. Well-developed industrial
activities and nonfarm opportunitiesare the main reasons for the relatively high income
inthe projectcities.

6.       According to the survey of project areas, most of the affected villages no longer
rely on agriculturalplantingas their main source of income.The majorityoftheir income
comes from non-farming sectors, such as transport activities in Laiwu, and various
industrialjobs in Yantai. Giventhe smallamount of income derivedfrom the agricultural
sector andthe limited amount of landacquisitionamong most ofthe affectedvillages (3.4
percent in Yantai), the land acquisitionwill have limited impact on the livelihood of the
affected people. In Laiwu, land acquisition will account for 58 percent of the total land
holding in DuixianmenVillage. The loss of land will have limited impact on the income
and livelihood of the Duixianmenvillagers, because most of their current income comes
from non-farming activities, such as working in Laiwu Power Plant and providing coal
transport.

Legal Framework

7.       National laws and regulationsand provincial implementationmeasures form the
legal basis for landacquisitionand resettlementfor the ShandongFGD Project.

8.       The national laws or regulations include: "Land Administration Law" (1998),
State Council No. 28 Decree on StrengtheningLand Acquisition Management (2004);
while the provincial implementation measures include: "Shandong Provincial


                                                   59

ImplementationMeasure of Land Administration Law" (1999) and Shandong Provincial
No. 51 Decree on "Readjustment of Annual Crop Value and Compensation Rates for
FarmlandAcquisition" (2004).

9.      Under the law, the land compensation will be 6-10 times the average annual
output value (AAOV) per mu (15 mu = 1 Ha.) in the past three years before land
acquisition.Thejob compensation will be 4-6 times the average annual output per mu for
each of the "affected people." This is determined by dividing the amount of acquired
cultivatedland by the existingratio of per capitacultivatedland for each affectedvillage.
By reducingthe per capita cultivated land ratio, the job compensation could increase up
to 15 times the average annual output. If the land compensation and job compensation
still cannot guarantee the restorationof the farmer's previous income, the total land and
job compensation could be increased up to 30 times the average annual output value per
mu inthe past three years before acquisition.(Article 47)

10.     According to Shandong Provincialregulations, the land compensationwill be 8-
10 times the AAOV for farmland within urban planned areas, 6-8 times the AAOV for
farmland outside urban plan areas, and 5-7 times the AAOV for most other rural land
areas. (Article 25) The job compensation will be 6 times the AAOV for farmland, and 4
times the AAOV for most other rural land areas. (Article 26) The compensation for
standingcrops is based on the productionvalue of one season's crops. Trees that can be
replantedare compensated as replantingfees and young tree loss fees. Trees that cannot
be replantedare to be compensatedaccordingto the relatedregulations.(Article 27)

11.     Since 2004, to improve rehabilitation outcome for land loss farmers, special
decrees were adopted in both national and provincial levels to increase compensation
rates for cultivated land acquisitionto at least 16 times the AAOV. No. 51 decree issued
by the SPG further specifiedthe basic value of AAOV for farmland, which ranged from
Y 1,200 to Y 1,800 per mu based on different geographical areas. The compensation
policiesfor the proposedpower plantswill be basedon these laws and regulations.

CompensationStandards

12.     In accordance with the legal requirements o f the Chinese Government and the
policy of the World Bank, the principlesof compensation and entitlements for the project
include: 1) compensation and entitlements providedto affected people are adequate to at
least maintain their pre-project standard of living, with the prospect of improvement; 2)
land temporarily occupied and the period of disruption are kept to a minimum; 3) all
affected people, legal and illegal, are taken into consideration and accounted for; 4) the
per capita land holding after land acquisition is sufficient to maintain the previous
livelihood standards; 5) where land allocation per capita is not sufficient to maintain
previous livelihood standards, other income generating activities are provided; 6) all
affected people are adequately informed on eligibility, compensation standards,
livelihood and income restoration plans, and project timing; and 7) no land acquisition
will take place prior to satisfactory compensation ofthe affected people.




                                            60

13.      Following the above-mentioned law and regulations, and basedon the analysis of
replacement value of lost assets, a set of compensation standards has been proposed by
each PMO and summarized inthe RAP. For cultivatedland, the compensation consists of
three parts: (1) land compensation; (2) job compensation; and (3) green crop
compensation. In Yantai, because there will be limited loss of farmland among the
affected villages, the combined land compensation and job compensation was set at 16
times the AAOV. In Laiwu, given the relatively significant land loss and reduced land
holdingafter landacquisition,the total compensation is set at 23 times the AAOV. Green
crop compensation is set at one-seasoncrop value or 50 percent ofthe AAOV with Y800
per mu in Yantai, and Y650 per mu in Laiwu. Based on these multiples and average
annual yields inthe project areas, the resultedcultivatedlandcompensation is as follow:

   Table 10(A).3: CompensationStandards for CultivatedLand in ShandongFGDProject
     Project          AAOV       Number of Multiples          GreenCrop          Total Land
                     (yuadmu)       for Landand Job          Compensation       Compensation
                                                                (Yuan)             (Yuan)
     Yantai            1,600               16                    800               26,400
     Laiwu             1,300              23                     650               30,550

Note; For Laiwu, the AAOV for vegetablelandis set at Y 2,400 andtotal compensationas Y 56,400.

14.      The compensation for orchards, based on provincial regulations, includes land
compensation, job compensation and standing trees. In Yantai, the land and job
compensation is the same as cultivatedland, and compensation for standingfruit trees is
set at Y 32,000 based on Y 400 per tree and 80 trees per mu, which is muchhigher than
that of farmland. The combined compensation is set at Y 57,600 per mu which is more
than doublethe amount for farmland. For other rural land areas, following the provincial
regulation,the compensation will be set at 10 times the AAOV of nearby cultivatedland
or Y 16,000 per mu inYantai, and Y 13,000 per mu inLaiwu.

15.      The property compensation consists of compensation for lost buildings, attached
facilities, and a movingallowance.These compensation standards are mainly used for the
relocationprogram for Laiwu Power Plantsite, and are basedon the replacementvalue of
lost assets. House compensation, after consultation with affected villagers, was set at
Y 550 per square meter for a concrete frame structure, Y 350450 per square meter for a
bricklconcrete structure, and Y 300400 per square meter for a brick/wood structure. A
moving and transfer allowance was set at Y 200 per square meter, plus Y 10,000 per
family for an early movingbonus, significantly higherthan inthe localregulations.

Resettlementand Rehabilitation Plan

16.     The mainobjective for resettlement is to improve, or at least restore the livelihood
of the project affected people to their former standards, including their living condition,
earning capacity, and income levels.For land loss farmers, based on consultationamong
affected communities, different rehabilitation options will be adopted for different
projects.InYantai, following local policiesof settingup pensions, medical insuranceand


                                             61

livelihood subsidies for land loss farmers, the rehabilitation mainly aims to convert the
land loss farmers into non-farm status and set up a retirement fund and medical insurance
for each of the affected people, while providingjob training for young people. In Laiwu,
the rehabilitation approach includes (1) expanding non-farm employment opportunities
during and after power plant construction; (2) investing land compensation into power
plant construction and achieving a much higher and more stable return for dividend
distribution; and (3) providing special assistance to vulnerable individuals so that their
basic livelihoodcouldbe restoredor improved.

17.     The proposed rehabilitationmeasureswill be financed by land Compensationand
job compensation received by affected villages based on the amount of land loss. In
addition, the construction of these power plants will also generate temporary and
permanent employment opportunities for the affected villagers, which will further
increase income and improvelivelihoodfor the affectedvillagers.

18.     For temporary land occupation, the affected households will be provided with
compensation for the lost yield and green crop, which is set at 1.5 times the AAOV for
the period of construction.Upon completion of the construction, the project owners will
be responsible to restore these lands back to their original productive conditions,
otherwise a land reclamation fee (Y 13,000 per mu in Laiwu and Y 16,000 per mu in
Yantai) will be providedto the affected people.

19.     For the relocated households in Laiwu Power Plant site, following extensive
consultation, it was agreed that Laiwu Power Plant will provide their former living
quarters to the village as a replacement housing site. The living quarters are locatednear
the existing village and have a total of 119 mu of land area and 20 apartment buildings
with 318 apartment units and 26,944 square meters of floor space. Each family could
obtain a three bedroom apartment with 85 square meters, consisting of a modern
bathroom,kitchenand other facilities. The cost ofthis replacement housing is only Y 260
per square meter, which means that after purchasingthese apartments, each family could
still have a large amount of their housing compensation left, which could be used for
other purposes. The living quarters also have various other services and facilities, such as
a primary school, kindergarten, senior center, village office, and green parks. Most
villagers haveexpressed a positiveattitudetowardthe proposedrehabilitation.

Institutional Arrangements

20.     The resettlement implementation for Shandong FGD Project will be mainly
carried out by subproject PMOs along with relevant city government agencies. The
provincial PMO will be responsible for coordination and guidance. To ensure successful
resettlementimplementation,a Resettlement LeadingGroup (RLG) will be established in
each project city. The RLG includesofficials from relevant city governments and project
PMOs. Its main responsibility is to strengthen the leadership of the project, formulate
resettlement policies, smooth the resettlement implementation, and coordinate among
different government departments. Under the RLG, a resettlement unit within each PMO
will be set up, which will be responsible for planningand implementingthe RAP. Their
main responsibilitiesinclude(1) assistingsite survey, (2) keepingrecords, (3) organizing


                                           62

consultation and community participation, (4) developing and implementing the
resettlement action plan, (5) managing and allocatingthe resettlementfunds, (6) training
resettlement staff at county and township levels, (7) signing compensationagreements
with affected families and villages, and (8) being a main channel for grievances of the
resettlers. In each affected township, a resettlement working team will be established,
which will work closely with city resettlement offices to carry out land acquisition and
resettlement for these powerplants.

Participation, Consultationand Disclosure

21.      In the process of identifying resettlement impacts, formulating resettlement
policies, and preparing the resettlement action plan, extensive consultation and
community participation have been organized by local PMOs in the project affected
areas. Through meaningful consultations so far, affected people have been able to
identify the scope of the impacts and proposed compensation rates and rehabilitation
measures. For example, in Laiwu where resettlement preparation has been most
advanced, all relocatedhouseholdswere informedabout compensation rates, replacement
housing choices and rehabilitation package based on more than a dozen consultation
efforts made between2004 and 2005 (see the RAP of Laiwu for detail). InYantai, where
the project feasibility study has not yet beencompleted, some consultationmeetings have
already been carried out by the project PMO and local county land resources bureaus in
the project areas regarding the compensation policies and rehabilitation options. Both
local township or subdistrict officials and village representatives participated in these
meetings. (More details ofconsultationare includedinthe RAP for Yantai).

22.     More efforts will be made during the resettlement implementationto encourage
further participation by the resettlers, such as increasing fairness in land readjustment,
and increasingtransparency in delivering and using compensation funds. To ensure that
all compensation will be used effectively, they will be delivered to affected villages and
the use of such funds will be approved by all villagers and monitoredby the township or
district governments.

23.     Following both Chinese law and the World Bank policy, the project resettlement
office will make efforts to disclose the content of the RAP, and inform the affected
people about resettlement impacts, compensation policies, and rehabilitationoptions. The
disclosure will be implemented prior to resettlement implementation. This disclosure
includes distributing resettlement information booklets to all affected households, and
makingthe RAP documents available in the affectedtownship and villages for the public
to review.

24.     To effectively address any complaints by affected people, a grievance procedure
will be set up by local PMOs. Ifa person is not satisfied with the compensationamount
or rehabilitationmeasure, they can first complainto the village, which should document
such complaint and resolve the matter within two weeks. If the affected person is not
satisfied with the decision, they can bring their case to the relevant township or local
resettlement office, which will provide a formal resolution within two weeks. Ifthey do
not agree with the resolution, they can then bring their case to the local land


                                            63

administration bureau, which will make a decision within 30 days. If they are still not
satisfiedwith the resolutionfrom the county, they can go to the city civil court to appeal.
The affected people will be informed about these grievance procedures by meetings,
informationbookletsand public notice.

ResettlementCost and Implementation Schedule

25.     The costs of land acquisition are included in the overall budget for these three
subprojects. The total costs of land acquisition and resettlement are estimated to be
Y 141.19 million, with Y82.21 million for Yantai and Y58.98 million for Laiwu. The
cost estimate for land acquisition includes provision of physical contingency set at 10
percent ofthe total amount ofresettlement cost.

26.     Followingthe Compensation standards and policies set up in the RAPS,the project
resettlement office of PMOs will sign land acquisition agreements with relevant city or
district land resources bureaus, which will then sign compensation agreements with
affected townships and villages for both the permanent land acquisition and temporary
land occupation.The delivery of landcompensation funds will go from the city or district
resettlement office, throughthe concerned townshipto affected villages. The attachments
of landwill be deliveredfrom villages to affected individuals.To ensure that resettlement
funds will be used effectively and exclusively, the different levels of governments will
carry out auditingon the use of resettlement funds each year.

27.     The resettlement implementation schedule will be closely related to the
constructionprogress. Land acquisition for both of the gas transmission and distribution
components will be completedone month beforethe start of the civil work construction.
The proposed schedule is expected to ensure that all affectedpeople prior to their actual
relocation (a) will have been adequately consulted about the project, its impacts and
compensation entitlements; (b) will have receivedcompensations in a timely manner; and
(c) havebeenprovidedwith meansofmaintainingtheir livelihood.

Monitoring and Evaluation

28.     To ensure that resettlement will be implemented smoothly and the livelihood of
the resettlers will be restored, both internalmonitoringand external M&E will be carried
out during the resettlement implementation.For the project, the resettlement offices of
three PMOs will be responsible for the internal monitoring. The relevant city land
resources bureaus and township resettlement working teams will participate in the
internal monitoring efforts. The main purpose of internal monitoring is to monitor the
implementationof the resettlement program to ensure that the agreed RAP will be fully
implemented, and the interests of resettlers are protected.The monitoringwill cover all
aspects of resettlement operation, such as the delivery of the compensation fund, land
readjustment among affected villages, and development of various income ,activities in
accordance with the RAP. Once the resettlement implementation begins, a progress
report will be submitted every three months from the village and township resettlement
teams to the county landresourcesbureaus, and finally to the resettlementoffices ofthree



                                             64

subprojectPMOs. Such information will be incorporated into project progress reportsto
be submittedby the projectowner to the World Bank.

29.    A qualified independent agency will be hired by three subproject PMOs to
regularly provide external M&E of the resettlement implementation and to evaluate
whether the mainobjectives o f the resettlementprogramare beingachieved. The process
of independent M&E will provide assessment on whether the livelihood of resettlershas
been restored. This will be an early warning system for the project management, and
providechannels for voicingcomments and opinions from affectedpeople.

30.    The methodof M&E will combine sample surveys and rapid appraisal to monitor
the implementationprogress and evaluation of income changes among affected people.
To achieve these purposes, the main indicators will include: (1) physical progress of
resettlement program; (2) quality of resettlement implementation; (3) delivery of
resettlement funds; (4) economic conditions of the resettlers before and after
resettlement;(5) environmentalconditions before and after resettlement; (6) employment
conditionsbeforeand after resettlement; and (7)resettlers' satisfaction.

3 1.   The external resettlement M&E survey will be carriedout at the end of every year
once the resettlement implementation begins. An M&E resettlement report will be
submitted to both subproject PMOs and provincial PMO as well as the World Bank by
the end of Februarythe following year. The resettlement and relocation work started in
2007 and the land acquisition will be completed in 2008. The resettlement M&E work
will proceedat least 3 times between2008 and 2009.




                                           65

               Annex 10B: Safeguard PolicyIssues (Environment)
        CHINA: ShandongPower Plant Flue Gas Desulfurization Project

Part I: Overview:

Safemards policies trimered: OP 4.01 EnvironmentalAssessment

Linked projects:
Laiwu                      Two new boilers
Huangtai                   Two new boilers
Lubei                      Two new boilers
Yantai-Bajiao              Two new boilers

Part 11.     Environmental Assessment:

1.    Laiwu (two new boilers)
      0  An EIA for the 300 MW boilers was approved in March 2005 by SEPA. The
          EIA includedthe FGD (wet limestone-gypsum)component.

      0  Public consultation for the EIA was conducted in November 2004 and the
         Chinese language documentwas disclosed locally in October 2006.

2.    Huangtai (two new boilers)
      0  An EIA for the 400 TPH/300 MW boilers was approved in July 2005 by
          SEPA. The EIA includedthe FGD (wet limestone-gypsum)component.

      0  Public consultation for the EIA was conducted in September 2004 and the
         Chinese language document was disclosed locally in October 2006.

3.    Lubei (two new boilers)
         An EIA for the 300 MW boilers was approved in December 2004 by SEPA.
         The EIA includedthe FGD (wet limestone-gypsum)component.


      0  Public consultation for the EIA was conducted in October 2004 and the
         Chinese language document was disclosed locally in October 2006.


4.    Yantai-Bajiao (two new boilers)
      0  An EIA for the 300 MW boilers was approved in April 2006 by SEPA. The
         EIA includedthe FGD (wet limestone-gypsum)component.

      0  Public consultationfor the FGD EMP was conducted in January 2006 and the
         Chinese language document was disclosedlocally inNovember2006.




                                       66

      Process:
      Laiwu                              Wet LimestoneFGD
      Huangtai                           Wet LimestoneFGD
      Lubei                              Wet LimestoneFGD
      Yantai-Bajiao                      Wet LimestoneFGD


      Environment Impacts and Mitigation Measures

      1. La:
  Phase                 Issue                                        Mitigatingmeasures
            The impact on air is mainly      Storingexcavatedearth in a designatedpit and providing a fenced
            from dust causedby               area for construction material.Other measures includespraying
            excavating, storage and          water on earth and establishing shields for cement.It is particularly
            transportingo f excavated        importantto take these measures during dry windy conditions.
            earth and delivery of
            construction materials (such
            as cement and sand)

ConstructionThe amount of dust will
            dependon wind speed.
            Domestic wastewater from         Becausethe workers will live at the power plant dormitory, the
            construction workers             domesticwastewaterwill be processedat the existingtreatment
                                             plant.
            Noise from grab, bulldozer,      There is no sensitivesite or village within 500m. Thereforethe noise
            road-roller,blender, and         would not disturbresidentsto any great extent.Also the construction
            crane. The noise level is        work is scheduled between7:OO a.m. and 6:OO p.m.
            75-93 dB (A).
            Disposalofwaste                  This will beusedto fill existingexcavations on the power plant
            constructionmaterial             property
Operation   Dust from limestone storage      Limestonewill be receivedalready ground and stored in sealed
            andconveyor                      containers.Transport will beas aslurry

            1. Wastewater from gypsum        1.Construction o fnew wastewater treatment system for the new
            dewateringprocess. The           boiler installation(pH adjustment, settling).The water will be reused
            pollutant: pH (pH = 5-6), salt   for sprayinglandscapingand dust control.
            (fluoride, sulfite and sulfate).

            2. Wastewaterfrom washing
            FGDequipment when shut           2. The wastewater after washingwill be collected in drainage and
                                                                                                        -
            down.                            deliveredto absorptiontower b; pumps.
Operation   The SO2and CaC03in flue          The desulfurizationgypsumwill be sold by Shandong FANGXING
            gas will combine to              IndustryCo.,Ltdto produce constructionmaterialand cement. To
            CaSO4.2H20through                avoid secondary pollution, closepackaging is necessary.
            chemical reaction. The purity
            o fthe gypsum(CaS04.2H20)
            >go%, fineness: 30-6Oum;
            Water content 40%. The
            amount is 83000 T/a (based
            ondesigncoal)




                                                        67

 Phase                 Issue                                      Mitigatingmeasures
           Noise from the operationof    Equipmentwith low operatingnoise will be selected:
           blender, circulatingpump and
           blower,etc. Level:185 dB      1. designthe stacks straight and use sound absorbingsupports for
Operation  (A).                          pipelines to reducenoise;
                                         2. plantingshrubbery andtrees aroundthe plant for sound
                                         absorption.
                                           These measures couldreducethe noiselevel by 15-20dB (A).



    2. Huangt i
     Phase                Issue                                   Mitigatingmeasures
                The impact onair is      A suitable dedicatedareaonthe plant site will beusedto store
                mainly from dust         materialsand wastes. These will be sprayed with water, or shielded
                causedby excavating,     to minimizeany adverse impact. Waste will ultimately betaken to an
                storage andtransporting SPEPB approved dump site in Jinan.
 Construction   ofexcavatedearth.


                Domestic waste-water     Any domestic waste-waterwill betreatedat the existingsecondary
                i s expected to be minor treatment plantoperating at the existingpower station. The treated
                as workers are all local water will be usedfor sprayingto reduce dust. Thus, the impact of
                and will commuteto       wastewater will be minor.
                the construction site
                Construction waste       The solid waste will betransportedto Jijia solid waste use treatment
                from demolishing         yard in Jinanto beused for fill.
                current building in
                project location(for
                heatingprojectis
                96,250 m3,including
                3,000 m3for FGD
                project)The waste will
 Construction   be non-hazardous
                construction material
                (such as bricks and
                plaster).
                Noisesfrom grab,         There is no sensitive site or village within 500m, so the noise should
                bulldozer,road-roller,   not disturb residents.The constructionwork will only beperformed
                blender and crane. The   inthe day betweenthe hours of 8:OO a.m. and 6:OO p.m.
                noise level is 75 dB
                (A).
                Limestone powders        Limestonepowder will be limited to less than 50mg/Nm3after bag
  Operation     when crushing            dust filtering.


                1. Wastewater from       1.The wastewater will betreated in anew 10TPH chemical
                gypsumdewatering         treatment plant (pH adjust, limestone addition, and settling) and
                process                  reused for spraying after treatment.

                2. Wastewater from       2. The wastewater after washing will be collected by drainageand
                washing FGD              delivered to absorptiontower by pumps.
                equipmentwhen shut
                down.




                                                     68

  Phase               Issue                                    Mitigatingmeasures
             The SO2and CaC03in        Agreement has beenreachedwith ShandongLUNENG Huangtai
             flue gas will combines    IndustryGroupto sell the gypsumto Shandong TAIHE Dongxin
             to CaS04.2H20through Co., Ltd and Tai'an XINHUA Gypsum ProcessingCo., Ltdto
             chemical changes. The     producegypsumboard of 150million square meters and 12 million
             purity ofthe gypsum       square meters. To avoid secondary pollution, close packaging is
             (CaS04-2H20)>90%,         necessary.
             fineness: 30-60um;
             Water content <lo%.
             Noiseaffectingworkers     Selectingequipmentto meet the requiredstandards and carryingout
             from the operationof      preventive measures:
             blender, circulating      1.usingstraight flow designofthe flue pipeand providing sound
Operation    pump and blower.          insulatedsupport structures;
             Level is 585 dB (A)       2. Plantingshrubbery andtrees aroundthe plant for sound
             and from the ball mill is absorption.
             90 dB (A).               The measurescould reduce the noise levelby 15-20dB (A).



 3. Lubei
  Phase               Issue                                    Mitigatingmeasures
             The impact on air is      Storingexcavatedearth in adesignatedplace and taking additional
             from dust causedby       preventivemeasures, such as spraying water and settingshields.
             excavating, storage and
             transportingof
             excavatedearth
                                      Cement storage areawill be covered
             Cement dust from
             storage area
             Constructionand          The construction and domestic wastewater will be processed at the
Construction domestic wastewater      Wastewater Treatment Stationof Lubei Corporation(Secondary
                                      treatment).Thetreatedwater can be used for spraying to reduce dust
                                      emission. Thus, the impact ofwastewater will be minor.
             Construction solid       The solid waste will betemporarily storedon-site to be used for fill
             waste material           and road construction.

             The noisefrom grab,      There is no sensitive site or village within 500m. Therefore, the
             bulldozer, road-roller,  noise should not disturb residents.Also, constructionwork is
             blender and crane. The   scheduled to beperformed between6:OO a.m and 8:OO p.m.
             noise level is 75-93 dB

             Limestonepowders         Conveyor will be coveredwith a bag house at the discharge point
Operation    during conveyingand
             storage                  Limestonestorage site will be covered.




                                                 69

  Phase               Issue                                   Mitigatingmeasures
             1. Wastewaterfrom        1. InstallingFGDwaste water treatmentsystem. After neutralization
             gypsum dewatering        treatment (pH at 6-7) and sedimentationthe water will beusedto
             process. The pollutant:  spray the coal storage site
             pH (pH = 5-6) and salt
             (fluoride, sulfite, and
             sulfate).
                                      2. The wastewater after washing will becollectedin drainage and
             2. Wastewaterfrom        delivered to absorptiontower by pumps.
             washing FGD
             equipment when
             stopped.
             The SO2 and CaC03in      ShandongLubei Group Co., Ltd. will use all the desulhrization
             flue gas will combines   gypsum(73,975 t/a) to producecement. At present, this company
             to CaS04.2H20through     needsto buy.0.15milliontons of gypsumperyear. To avoid
             chemical changes. The    secondary pollution, close packagingis necessary.
             purity ofthe gypsum
             (CaSO4<2H20)>90%,
             fineness: 30-60um;
             Surfacewater content:
             10-12%.
             Noise from the           Choosingthe equipmentswith low noise (985 dB [A]) in general and
             operationof blender,     5105 dB (A) for the ball mill, and carryingout preventive measures:
             circulatingpump and      straight designof flue pipe with sound absorbing supports to reduce
             blower. Level and ball   noise; keepingthe temporary standby vibratingequipment in an
             mill.                    isolatedarea and plantingshrubbery and trees around the plant for
                                      sound absorption.The measuresabove couldreducethe noise level
                                      by about 15-20dB (A) and comply with the Nationalstandard.



 4. Yantai- ajiao
  Phase               Issue                                   Mitigatingmeasures
             The impact on air is     Storing excavatedearth in adesignatedplace and taking preventive
             from dust causedby       measures, such as sprayingwater and setting shields.
             excavation, storage and
Construction transportingofearth
             Domestic wastewater is  The domestic wastewater will be processedat the treatment plant.
             asignificantsource of   The treatedwater can beused for sprayingto reducedust. Thus, the
             pollution. The CODcr     impacto fwastewater impact is minor.
             and BOD5 is 200mgL
             and 100mg/L.
             Solidwaste generated    The solid waste can be storedon-sitetemporarily and then collected
             duringthe construction   by the municipal solid waste authorities
             periodmay adversely
             affectthe environment
             ifnotremoved.
Construction The noise from grab,    The sites are approximately 190 m from the nearest village.
             bulldozer,road-roller,  Construction work will be limited from 7:OO a.m. to 9:OO p.m. If
             blender, and crane. The work must be done outside ofthese hours, local peoplewill be given
             noise level is 75-94 dB notice of at least one week inadvance.
             (A).




                                                 70

 Phase                 Issue                               Mitigating measures
            Limestonedust at the    Storage area will be sealed
Operation   storage silo


            1. Wastewater from      1. The total wastewater from 7# & 8# unitswill betreatedtogether
            gypsumdewatering        and reused for spraying after treatment.
            process. The pollutant: 2. The wastewater after washingwill be collected in drainageand
            pH (pH = 5-6), salt     delivered to FGDabsorptiontower by pumps.
            (fluoride, sulfite and
            sulfate).
            2. Wastewater of
            washing FGD
Operation   equipment when
            stopped.
            The SOzand CaC03in      The desulfurizationgypsumwill be sold to Shandong Yantai
            flue gas will combined  DongyuanCement Co., Ltd, Yufeng Lightweight Construction
            to CaS04.2Hz0through    MaterialCo., Ltd in Fushandistrict ofYantai and DeheConstruction
            chemical changes. The   MaterialCo., Ltd in Muping district ofYantai.
            purity ofthe gypsum
            (CaS04-2H20)>go%,
            fineness: 30-60um;
            Water content <lo%.
            Noise from the          Equipment with low operating noise will be selected (<85 dB[A])
            operationof blender,    and:
            circulatingpump, and
Operation   blower.Level:485 dB     1. designflue pipe to be as straight as possibleto reducenoise;
            (A). The noise levelof  2. Plantingshrubbery andtrees aroundthe plantfor sound
            ball mill is 90-105 dB  absorption.
            (A)                     The measuresabove couldreducethe noiselevel by 15-20dB (A).

Alternatives consideredin uroiect design.

Noproject alternative

5.      The "no project alternative" would maintain the high level of sulfur dioxide
emissions and most likely the associated high ambient levels of sulfiu dioxide in one of
the most heavily polluted provinces in China. This in turn would likely result in
maintainingthe high levelofhealthriskto the general populationof Shandong Province.

Technicaldesign alternatives:


        0 The design alternatives considered include: limestone (CaC03) scrubbing,
          lime scrubbing (CaO), circulating fluid bed (CFB: with hydrated lime-
          Ca(OH)Z), and magnesium oxide (MgO) scrubbing. These systems fall into
          the class ofFGDtypes knownas "non-regenerable."

        0 Alternative "regenerable" systems are considerably more expensive to build
          and are bothexpensive and complexto operate, and have a muchmore limited
          degree of commercial success. Their advantages are that they produce a
          commercial sulfur product (either elemental sulfur, or sulfuric acid) and the


                                              71

         sorbent is "regenerated," so it can be used over and over again. However,
         these sulfur products tends to be either inferior in quality to other sources
         and/or at much higher cost. Inshort, they are neithersuitablenor economical.

     0   The lime and limestonesystems are wet systems, so as the name implies, they
         utilize relatively greater amounts of water and produce a product that has the
         consistency of plaster. Additional drying/filtration is needed to provide an
         easily handled commercially viable byproduct.The CFB system is "semi-dry"
         and doesn't require as much water. It yields a product that is more easily
         handled. CFB systems are slightly less efficient in removing sulfur dioxide
         than limekmestone systems. Furthermore, CFB systems produce a product
         that contains some fly ash, as well as unreacted calcium carbonate and oxide,
         in addition to calcium sulfate. As such, the by-product has more limited
         possibilitiesfor utilization.

     0   Magnesiumoxide (MgO) scrubbingsystemsare quite similar in natureto lime
         or limestone scrubbing. Although MgO is a very effective FGD sorbent, its
         use is limited because of the higher cost relative to lime/limestone. It has
         generally been utilized with the regenerable "MAGOX" system producing
         sulfuric acid. Under unique circumstances, where there is a readily available
         supply of inexpensive magnesium carbonate and a strong market for
         magnesiumsulfate, magnesiumoxide scrubbingbecomesa viable alternative.

     0   Other alternatives include lower sulfur coal, fluid bed combustion, limestone
         injection modified burners (LIMB), or alternative fuels (gas, low sulfur oil).
         None of these alternatives are realistic because of the: (a) unavailability of
         fuel, (b) limited commercialexperience, or (c) scale-up difficulties.

Key environmentalrisks

     0   There are no substantialenvironmentalrisks. The by-productsformed (either
         hydratedcalcium sulfate or magnesium sulfate) are neither toxic or in anyway
         hazardous. In fact, if deposited on land, they are likely to leave the soil
         slightly alkaline, which in general tends to immobilize most trace metals,
         thereby preventingthese pollutants from migratingto groundwater sources. In
         short, they would tend to improvegroundwater quality.

     0   However, in all cases the calcium based by-product materials will be used in
         the manufactureof constructionmaterials,either as a supplement to cement or
         as the key ingredient in the manufactureof wallboard. The magnesium-based
         byproductwill be utilized as a fertilizer supplement.

     0   Water use is minimal even in the case of wet systems, and the water
         requirementswill be met internally or from noncompetitive sources (treated
         municipal wastewater effluent, desalination plant effluent). There will be no
         abstractiono f water from external sources which have alternativeuse (such as


                                         72

 potable supply and agriculture) and thus no competitionfor high valued water
 resourceswith other localusers.

0Wastewater produced is minimal and is nontoxic. It will be treated by
 adjusting pH and precipitating suspended solids. The treated effluent may
 contain traces of calcium or magnesium ions, sulfate, and chloride, none of
 which are particularlytoxic.

0A summary of the environmentalrisks and their mitigation is presented in the
 table below.




                                 73

z-
0     0
      8
m     m
      00




         74

Imdementation arranpements.

Institutional resuonsibilities:

6.     Laiwu
Construction;
Contractor is responsible for implementingthe mitigatingmeasures
Operation;
Laiwu Power Plant, ProductionTechnology Departmentis responsiblefor implementing
the mitigatingmeasures

7.      Huangtai
Construction:
Contractoris responsiblefor implementingthe mitigatingmeasures
Operation;
HTTPPProductionDepartmentis responsiblefor implementingthe mitigatingmeasures

8.     Lubei
Construction:
Contractor is responsiblefor implementingthe mitigatingmeasures
Operation;
Lubei plant Power Generation Safety and Environmental Protection Department is
responsible for implementingthe mitigatingmeasures

9.      Yantai-Bajiao
Construction:
Contractor is responsible for implementingthe mitigatingmeasures
Operation:
Yantai Bajiao Power Plant Operational Branch is responsible for implementing the
mitigatingmeasures

Monitoring, auditing and reporting:

10.    Laiwu
Monitoring:
Data collectionwill be performedby the ProductionTechnologyDepartmentfor boththe
constructionand operationphases.
DataAnalysis:
For both construction and operation the environmental staff member of the Production
Technology Departmentwill analyze the data
Reporting and Recommendations:
Environmentalstaff ofthe ProductionTechnology Departmentwill prepare both monthly
and quarterly reports to the Vice General Manager, Laiwu EPB, and Luneng Group


                                          75

(parent company)
Action/Decisions:
Most of the time the Vice General Manager will take the necessary action. However,
depending on the situation either the Laiwu EPB or Luneng Group Co. will take the
necessary actions.

11.     Huangtai
Monitoring:
 HTTPP Civil Works Department will be responsible for environmental monitoring
duringconstructionand the Operations Departmentduringoperations
Reporting and Recommendations:
The specializedenvironmental staff in the HTTPPProductionDepartmentwill prepare a
monthly summary table of environmentalresultsand any recommendedactions
Decision Making:
The HTTPP Vice General Manager receives these reports and has the authority to
implementany recommendations

12.     Lubei
Monitoring:
The LubeiPlant Power GenerationSafety and EnvironmentalProtectionDepartmentwill
be responsiblefor environmentalmonitoringduringconstructionand operations
Reporting andRecommendations:
The Vice General Manager and General Manager will receivea weekly summary table of
any complaintsor outstandingissues andrecommendedactions
DecisionMaking:
The Vice General Manager is the authorityto implementany recommendations

13.     Yantai-Bajiao
Monitoring:
Both constructionand operationwill be performedby Yantai Bajiao Power Plant
Reporting and Recommendations:
Both constructionand operation reports will be prepared by Yantai Bajiao Power Plant
specialstaff assigned for environment
ActiodDecision Making:
Both constructionand operationwill be performedby Yantai BajiaoPower Plant General
Manager

Capacitv to implementsafepuards:

14.    For all subprojects, implementationof EMPs is an integral aspect of the facility
construction and operation activities. All the subproject sponsors are large companies
who have no outstandingenvironmentalfines or penaltiesand never have had them in the
past. In short, they are fully capable of implementingthe modest safeguard requirements


                                            76

specified in their respective EMPs, because these activities do not represent any
significant departure from their current operations. The Task Team environmental
specialist visited the facilities/project sites o f all the proposed subprojects and has
concluded that all the sponsors have appropriate technical staff and have or will have
(new project) all necessary facilities to perform the modest mitigation and monitoring
activities specified in their EMPs.




                                             77

         e   e




e e e e           . . . e .




                               Y




                78

   -r


 0
 E
c3                    I
       W
4P
 0     N
       1

                        I



.I
c
.I
xe
v1



zE
c,




Ccl
0
El
0
.I
c
Q

G?




              3
              a


              a
              0
              .-35

              W




            79

                 Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
         CHINA: ShandongPower Plant Flue Gas Desulfurization Project




Prepared by: ShandongProvincial Environmental Protection Bureau
Preparation Assistance: NA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:




                                       80

                Annex 12: Documents in the Project File
    CHINA: ShandongPowerPlant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject


1.  ProjectDocuments
    a. Project Concept Documents
    b. Project Brief

2.  ProcurementPlans
    a. Huangtai Thermal Power Plant
    b. Lubei ThermalPower Co. Ltd.
    c. Yantai Bajiao Power Plant
    d. Laiwu ThermalPower Plant

3.  ProcurementCapacity AssessmentReport

4.  FinancingManagementAssessment

5.  Economic and Financial Analysis

    ShandongPower Plant FlueGas Desulfurization (FGD) Project
    Economic and Financial Analysis

6.  EnvironmentalManagementPlan
    a. Environmental Management Plan for Huangtai Thermal Power Plant
    b. Environmental Management Plan for Lubei Thermal Power Co. Ltd.
    c. Environmental Management Plan for Yantai Bajiao Power Plant
    d. Environmental ManagementPlan for Laiwu Thermal Power Plant

7.  ResettlementAction Plan
    a. ResettlementAction Plan for Yantai Bajiao Power Plant
    b. ResettlementAction Plan for Laiwu Power Plant

8.  FeasibilityStudies
    a. Feasibility Study for Huangtai Thermal Power Plant
    b. Feasibility Study for LubeiThermal Power Co. Ltd.
    c. Feasibility Study for Yantai Bajiao Power Plant
    d. Feasibility Study for Laiwu Thermal Power Plant

9.  Letters,Decrees, Policy Papers

10. Various Reportsand Studies




                                    81

                                        Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                       CHINA: ShandongPower Plant Flue Gas DesulfurizationProject

                                                                                                                 Differencebetween
                                                                                                                 expectedand actual
                                                           Original Amount in US$ Millions                          disbursements

Project ID  FY  Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA       SF        GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.      Frm Rev'd

PO93963    2008 CN-GuiyangTransport                      100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  100.00     0.00        0.00
PO87318    2007 CN--GEF-GuangxiIntegratedForestry          0.00      0.00      0.00      5.25    0.00     4.65    0.18        0.00
                Dev.
PO83322    2007 CN-SICHUAN URBAN DEV                     180.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  170.70    28.54        0.00
PO81776    2007 CN-GUANGDONGPRD2                          96.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    96.00    5.67        0.00
PO88964    2007 CN-Guangxi IntegratedForestry Dev        100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    76.11  -21.39        0.00
PO90377    2007 CN-GEF-2ndShandong Environment             0.00      0.00      0.00       5.00   0.00     4.50    0.00        0.00
PO91020    2007 CN-Fujian Highway Sector Investment      320.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  320.00    43.50        0.00
PO92618    2007 CN-LIAONING MED CITIES INFRAS 2          173.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  173.00     0.00        0.00
PO86035    2007 CN-CF-Tianjin Landfill Gas Recovery        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00     8.44    0.00        0.00
PO75613    2007 CN-Shaanxi Ankang Road Development       300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  290.00     7.39        0.00
PO86515    2007 CN-3rd National Railway                  200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  200.00    18.67        0.00
PO77752    2007 CN-SHANDONG ENVMT 2                      147.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  131.16   -10.01        0.00
PO96285    2007 CN-MSE Finance                           100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  100.00   l00.00        0.00
PO95315    2007 CN-W. RegionRural Water & Sanitation      25.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    25.00    0.00        0.00
PO75732    2006 CN-SHANGHAIURBAN APL2                    180.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  144.90    18.23        0.00
PO82992    2006 CN-GEF-TermiteControl Demonstration        0.00      0.00      0.00      14.36   0.00    14.36    1.47        0.00
PO81348    2006 CN-HENAN TOWNS WATER                     150.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  139.63    14.63        0.00
PO81255    2006 CN-ChangjiangPearl RiverWatershed        100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    95.61   17.27        0.00
                Reha
PO70519    2006 CN-Fuzhou Nantai Island Peri-UrbanDev    100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    98.25   22.00        0.00
PO86629    2006 CN-Heilongjiang Dairy                    100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    91.76   16.93        0.00
PO99992    2006 CN-Liaoning Medium Cities                218.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  175.65   -17.77        0.00
                Infrastructure
PO96158    2006 CN-Renewable Energy I1(CRESP 11)          86.33      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    71.95   30.50        0.00
PO94388    2006 CN-HFC-23 Emissions Reduction              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  1,045.51   0.00        0.00
PO93906    2006 CN-3rd Jiangxi Hwy                       200.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00  151.92    -8.08        0.00
PO90649    2006 CN-CF-Facilitating Afforestation Program   0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00      2.01    0.00        0.00
PO90336    2006 CN-GEF-NINGBO WATER & ENVMT                0.00      0.00      0.00      5.00    0.00     4.39    I.67        0.00
PO85333    2006 CN-5th InlandWaterways                   100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    65.42   25.59        0.00
PO85124    2006 CN-Ecnomic Reform Implementation          20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00    18.44    4.61        0.00
PO84742    2006 CN-IAIL 111                              200.00      0 00      0.00      0.00   0.00   106.86     6.09        0.00
PO82993    2006 CN-GEF-PCB Mgnt & Disposal                0.00       0.00      0.00      18.34  0.00     17.57   10.06        0.00
PO81346    2005 CN-LIUZHOU ENVIRONMENTMGMT               100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     55.04   -5.41        0.00
PO81161    2005 CN-CHONGQINGSMALL CITIES                 180.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   144.82    40.16        0.00
PO86505    2005 CN-NINGBO WATER & ENVMT                  130.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     85.89   -4.61        0.00
PO75730    2005 CN-HUNAN URBAN DEV                       172.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   155.62    56.46        0.00
PO57933    2005 CN-TAI BASIN URBAN ENVMT                 61.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    29.77    17.16        0.00
PO67625    2005 CN-GEF-Renewable Energy Scale-up          0.00       0.00      0.00     40.22   0.00    37.67    -0.35        0.00
                Program
PO67828    2005 CN-Renewable Energy Scale-upProgram       87.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   10.00    2.40     8.90        0.00
PO68752    2005 CN-Inner Mongolia Highway & Trade        100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    28,66   -2I.76        0.00
                Corrid



                                                                 82

PO69862 2005 CN Agricultural Technology Transfer
                -                                   100.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   70.38    29.82    0.00
PO87291 2005 CN-CF-JinchengCoal BedMethane            0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   49.24     0.00    0.00
             Project
PO71094 2005 CN - Poor Rural Communities            100.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   72.21    44.01    0.00
             Development
PO72721 2005 CN-GEF-HeatReform& BldgEgy Eff.          0.00    0.00  0.00   18.00   0.00   14.56     8.24    0.00
PO75728 2004 CN-GUANGDONGPRDUR ENVMT                128.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.64   74.54    28.78    0.00
PO65035 2004 CN-Gansu& Xinjiang Pastoral              66.27   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   16.93     7.01    0.00
             Development
PO65463 2004 CN-Jiangxi IntegratedAgric. Modem.     100.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   54.61    32.08    0.00
PO66955 2004 CN-ZHEJIANG URBAN ENVMT                133.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   85.34    40.08    0.00
PO84003 2004 CN-GEF GUANGDONG PRDURB                  0.00    0.00  0.00  10.00    0.00    9.45     6.66    0.00
             ENV
PO75035 2004 CN - GEF-Hai  BasinIntegr.Wat.           0.00    0.00  0.00  17.00    0.00    9.92    11.68    0.00
             Env,Man.
PO73002 2004 CN-Basic Educationin Westem Areas      100.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   31.32    28.83    0.00
PO77137 2004 CN-4th InlandWaterways                   91.00   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.46   47.17    26.46   25.96
PO69852 2004 CN-WuhanUrbanTransport                 200.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   1.oo   62.13    60.79    0.00
PO81749 2004 CN-Hubei Shiman Highway                200.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   1.oo    9.19    -8.14    0.00
PO77615 2004 CN-GEF-Gansu& Xinjiang Pastoral          0.00    0.00  0.00  10.50    0.00    5.28     8.66    0.00
             Develop
PO58847 2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project            150.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   12.25    12.25    0.00
PO40599 2003 CN-TIANJIN URB DEV II                  150.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00  126.17    83.35    4.08
PO67337 2003 CN-2nd GEF Energy Conservation           0.00    0.00  0.00  26.00    0.00    7.17    25.86    0.00
PO68058 2003 CN-Yixing Pumped Storage Project       145.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   46.41    35.85    0.00
PO70191 2003 CN-SHANGHAI URBENVMT APLl              200.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   81.53    50.85    0.00
PO76714 2003 CN-2nd Anhui Hwy                       250.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   20.54    -0.30    0.00
PO70459 2002 CN-Inner Mongolia Hwy Project          100.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00    7.84     3.84    0.00
PO60029 2002 CN-GEF-Sustain.Foreshy Dev               0.00    0.00  0.00  16.00    0.00    4.59    14.58    0.00
PO71147 2002 CN-TuberculosisControl Project         104.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   41.63    29.49    0.00
PO64729 2002 CN-Sustainable Forestry Development     93.90    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   12.11     5.81    0.00
PO68049 2002 CN-Hubei HydropowerDev in Poor Areas   105.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   14.39     8.52    0.00
PO47345 2001 CN-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION                105.50    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   10.36    10.36   -2.08
             CONTROL
PO51859 2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                    100.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   12.17    11.97    0.00
PO56596 2001 CN-ShijiazhuangUrbanTransport          100.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   30.86    30.86    0.00
PO64924 2000 CN-GEF-BEIJING ENVMT I1                  0.00    0.00  0.00  25.00    0.00   18.95    25.00   12.15
PO49436 2000 CN-CHONGQMGURBAN ENVMT                200.00     0.00  0.00    0.00  29.50   48.63    78.13   -0.68
PO64730 2000 CN-YangtzeDike Strengthening           2 10.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   64.12    64.12  47.78
PO45910 2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT             150.00    0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   27.83    27.83    7.87
PO42109 2000 CN-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT I1              349.00   0.00   0.00  25.00   26.51 146.62   173.13    10.02
PO38121 1999 CN-GEF-Renewable Energy                  0.00   0.00   0.00  35.00   0.00     2.21    34.77  28.90
             Development
PO51856 1999 CN-Accounting Reform& Development       27.40   5.60   0.00   0.00   0.00     5.23    5.02    4.74
PO42299 1999 CN-Tec Coop Credit IV                   10.00   35.00  0.00   0.00    5.84    9.59    12.82    0.00
PO36953 1999 CN-Health IX                            10.00   50.00  0.00   0.00   0.40     6.71    5.00     5.00
                                             Total 7,803 40  9060   000  27067    75 35 5,853 84 1,48037  143 74




                                                           83

                                              CHINA
                                     STATEMENTOF IFCs
                                  Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                    (millions o f US.dollars)

                                            Committed                       Disbursed

                                           IFC                            IFC
FY Approval Company             Loan      Equity   Quasi  -
                                                          Partic. Loan    Equity  Quasi   Partic.

2002        ASIMCO              0.00       10.00    0.00   0.00     0.00  10.00     0.00   0.00
2006        ASIMCO              0.00        0.00    4.12   0.00     0.00   0.00     3.61   0.00
2005        BCCB                0.00       59.21    0.00   0.00     0.00  59.03     0.00   0.00
2003        BCIB                0.00        0.00   12.04   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2006        BUFH                8.14        0.00    0.00   0.00     8.14   0.00     0.00   0.00
2005        Babei               0.00        5.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   5.00     0.00   0.00
            Babei Necktie       11.00       0.00    0.00   6.00     8.94   0.00     0.00   4.88
1999        Bank of Shanghai    0.00       21.76    0.00   0.00     0.00  21.76     0.00   0.00
2000        Bank ofShanghai     0.00        3.84    0.00   0.00     0.00   3.84     0.00   0.00
2002        Bank ofShanghai     0.00       24.67    0.00   0.00     0.00  24.67     0.00   0.00
2005        BioChina            0.00        3.70    0.00   0.00     0.00   3.13     0.00   0.00
2002        CDH China Fund      0.00        2.02    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2005        CDH China I1        0.00       17.99    0.00   0.00     0.00  11.38     0.00   0.00
2006        CDH Venture         0.00       20.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.51     0.00   0.00
2005        CT Holdings         0.00        0.00   40.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2004        CUNA Mutual         0.00       10.53    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2006        Capital Today       0.00       25.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.32     0.00   0.00
2005        ChangyuGroup        0.00       18.07    0.00   0.00     0.00  18.07     0.00   0.00
1998        Chengdu Huarong     3.36        3.20    0.00   3.13     3.36   3.20     0.00   3.13
2004        China Green Ener    20.00       0.00    0.00   0.00    15.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2004        China Re Life       0.00        0.27   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.27     0.00   0.00
1994        China Walden Mgt    0.00        0.01    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.01     0.00   0.00
2006        Chinasoft           0.00        0.00   15.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    10.00   0.00
2004        Colony China        0.00       15.31    0.00   0.00     0.00   9.29     0.00   0.00
2004        Colony ChinaGP      0.00        0.84    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.49     0.00   0.00
2006        Conch               81.50      40.93    0.00   0.00    81.50   0.00     0.00   0.00
2006        DagangNewspring     25.00       0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2002        Darong              10.00       0.24   0.00    8.00     6.67   0.24     0.00   5.33
2006        Deqingyuan          0.00        2.85   0.00    0.00     0.00   2.85     0.00   0.00
1994        Dynamic Fund        0.00        2.21   0.00    0.00     0.00   2.01     0.00   0.00
2007        Epure               0.00       10.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2004        Fenglin             17.64       0.00   6.00    13.47   13.64   0.00     6.00  12.53
2006        Fenglin HJMDF       0.23        0.00   0.00    3.27     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2005        Five Star           0.00        0.00   7.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2006        GDIH                50.85       0.00   0.00    0.00    50.85   0.00     0.00   0.00
2003        Great Infotech      0.00        1.73   0.00    0.00     0.00   1.03     0.00   0.00
2006        HangzhouRCB         0.00       10.85   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2005        HiSoft Tech         0.00        4.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   3.00     0.00   0.00
2006        HiSoft Tech         0.00        4.34   0.00    0.00     0.00   1.74     0.00   0.00
2004        1B                  0.00       52.18   0.00    0.00     0.00  52.18     0.00   0.00

2004    Jiangxi Chenming            40.00    12.90    0.00    18.76   40.00   12.90   0.00   18 76
2006    LaunchTech                  0.00      8.35     0.00    0.00    0.00    8.33   0.00   0 00
2001    MaanshanCarbon              5.25      2.00    0.00     0.00    5.25    2.00   0.00   0 00
2005    MaanshanCarbon              11.oo     1 .oo   0.00     0.00    5.00    1.oo   0.00   0 00
2005    Minsheng                    15.75     0.00    0.00     0.00    7.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2006    Minsheng& IB                25.09     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2001    MinshengBank                0.00     23.50     0.00    0.00    0.00   23.50   0.00   0 00
2005    MinshengBank                0.00      2.80     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.79   0.00   0 00
2001    NCCB                        0.00      8.94     0.00    0.00    0.00    8.82   0.00   0 00
1996    Nanjing Kumho               0.00      3.81     0.00    0.00    0.00    3.81   0.00   0 00
2004    Nanjing Kumho               31.38     2.23     0.00    0.00   31.38    2.23   0.00   0 00
2006    Neophotonics                0.00      0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  IO.00   0 00
2001    New China Life              0.00      5.83     0.00    0.00    0.00    5.83   0.00   0 00
2005    New Hope                    0.00      0.00    45.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
1995    Newbridge Inv.              0.00      0.22     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.22   0.00   0 00
2005    North Andre                 8.00      6.74     0.00    0.00    0.00    4.25   0.00   0 00
2003    PSAM                        0.00      2.01    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
        RAK China                   13.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   13.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2006    Renaissance Sec             0.00      0.00    20.04    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2006    Rongde                      0.00     35.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   3I.38   0.00   0 00
        SAC HK Holding              0.00      1.60    0.00     0.00    0.00    1.oo   0.00   0 00
2003    SAIC                        12.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   12.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2006    SBCVC                       0.00     20.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.00   0.00   0 00
2000    SEAF SSIF                   0.00      3.74    0.00     0.00    0.00    3.37   0.00   0 00
        SHKeji IT                   3.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2004    SHCT                        38.18     0.00    0.00    28.64   29.04    0.00   0.00  21 78
2004    SIBFI                       0.14      0.07    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.07   0.00   0 00
1998    Shanghai Krupp              19.25     0.00    0.00    36.75   19.25    0.00   0.00  36 75
2006    Shanshui Group              50.00     5.50    2.20     0.00   50.00    5.50   0.00   0 00
1999    Shanxi                      12.61     0.00    0.00     0.00   12.61    0.00   0.00   0 00
        SinoSpring                  0.00      0.00   20.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
        StoraEnso                   20.83     0.00    0.00     4.17   11.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2005    Stora Enso                  29.17     0.00    0.00    20.83    0.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2006    Stora Enso                  50.00     0.00    0.00   175.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0 00
2006    TBK                         4.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    2.00   0.00    0.00   0 00
2006    VeriSilicon                 0.00      1.oo    0.00    0.00     0.00    I.oo   0.00   0 00
        Wanjie High-Tech            9.89      0.00    0.00     0.00    9.89    0.00   0.00   0 00
2004    Wumart                      0.00      1.62    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.62   0.00   0 00
2003    XACB                        0.00     17.95    0.00    0.00     0.00   0.64    0.00   0 00
2004    Xinao Gas                   25.00    10.00    0.00     0.00   25.00   10.00   0.00   0 00
2006    Zhejiang Glass              50.00    24.96    0.00    18.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0 00
2003    Zhengye-ADC                 10.43    0.00     0.00    4.87    10.43   0.00    0.00   4 87
2002    Zhong Chen                  0.00     4.78     0.00    0.00     0.00   4.78    0.00   0 00
2006    Zhongda-Yanjin              21.89    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00   0 00

                   Total portfolio: 733.58  577.30   181.40  340.89  470.95  371.06  29.61  108.03




                                                   85

                                               Approvals PendingCommitment

FY Approval Company                        Loan      Equity     Quasi   Partic.
2002        SML                          0.00         0.00      0.00     0.00
2004        NCFL                         0.00         0.00      0.02     0.00
2007        Xinao CTC                    0.04         0.01      0.00     0.14
2004        China Green                  0.00         0.00      0.01     0.00
2006        LaunchTech                   0.01         0.00      0.00     0.00
2005        MS Shipping                  0.00         0.01      0.00     0.00
2003        Peak Pacific 2               0.00         0.01      0.00     0.00

                Total pendingcommitment:    0.05      0.03      0.03     0.14




                                        86

                                         Annex 14: Country at a Glance
           CHINA: ShandongPower Plant Flue Gas Desulfurization Project
                                           -
                                                               East      Lower-
 POVERTY and SOCiAL                                          Asia L middle-
                                                     China   Pacific    income       Development diamond'
 2006
 Population,mid-year(millions)                         13n8      le00      2270
GNIpercapita(Atlasmefhod, US%)                         2,wo                                         Lifeexpectancy
                                                                 1883      2,037
GNI(Aflasmethod, U S billions)                       2,023.0    3,539      4.035
Average annual growth, 2000.06
 Population (%,                                          0.0       0.9        0.9
 Laborforce(%,                                           10        13          14
 M o s t recent estimate (Iatert year available, 2000-06)                            capita                                    enrollment
 Poverty (%ofpopulationbelownationaipoveriyline)
 Urbanwoulation I%offofalw~ulationl
        , .                 . .      .                    41       42          47
 Lifeexpectancyalbirth(pars)                             72        71          71
 Infantmortality(per 1OOOlivebirihsj                     23        20          31
Childmalnutrition(%ofchildfenunderti)                      8       5           a            Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)         77        79          81
 Literacy(%ofpopulation age 159                           91       91          89
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschool-agepopulation)        m         In          m       -China
   Male                                                  m         m           m                Lowr-middlsincomegroup
   Female                                                m         m                      ~
                                                                               In

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1986    1996    2005       2006       Economic
GDP (US billions)                              2957    0581   2,243.8     2,844.7
Gross capitalformation4GDP                      366     404       43.9      44.0
w r t s of goods andsewlces/GDP                  ne     201       37.3       40.1
Gross domesticsavinps/GDP                       358     425      49.4       52.5
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                       359     413       510        54.1
Current accomt baiance/GDP                      -28      0 8      7 2         9.4
Interestpayments/GDP                             0 2     0 5       0.1               Domestic
Total debVGDP                                    8 0    8 0       P.0                savings
Total debt seNice/eqorts                         8 2     8 7      3.0
Presentvdueof debt/GDP                                            P.3
Presentvaiue of debt/emrts                                        30.8
                                                                                                     indebtedness
                                    1986-96 1996.06   2005     2006     2006.10
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                      0.1     9.0    0.4       0 7        U6            -China
GDP percapita                            8.0     8.2     9.7      0 1         9 9                L o w e r - m / M l w ~ o mae m u ~
W r t S Of goods andSeNiCBS             0.0     218     24.3     23.3        I74


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

                                               1986    1996    2005       2006
(%of GDP)                                                                           IGrowth of capital and GDP (YO)

Agriculture                                     27.1    8.5       P.5         n 7
Industry                                        44.0    47.5     47.5       48.4
  Manufacluring                                 35.2    33.5     33.5
Services                                        28.9    33.0     39.9       39.9
Householdfinalconsumption expenditure           493     43.5      36.1      33.2               01    02       03       M       05    OB
Generalgov't finalconsumption ewnditure          M.9    n.0       n.5        n.3
Imports of goods andservices                     w.7    e.0       317       322                 -GCF                 -GDP



                                            1986-96 1996-06    2005       2006
(averageannualgrowth)                                                               Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                      4.3     3.5      5.2         5.0   4oT
Industry                                        a.5      0 1      n7         2.5
  Manufacturing                                 0.8     0 2       P.l
Services                                         9.4     9.8      0.5        0.3
Householdfinalconsumptioneqenditure             0.9      7.8      5.8        0.3
Generalgov't finalConsumptionexpenditure        u.4      9.5      ne         u,9               01    02      03        04     05     OB
Gross capitalformation                           ns     02        ne         '(3.2           -Exports              -V-lrrpOrtS
imports of goods andservices                     ns     13.5      n 4        n.3

Note:ZOOBdataarepreiiminaryestimates.
This tablewas producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomics LDB database.
'Thediamonds showfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry(in bo1d)comparedvrithilsincomegroupavarage.ifdalaaremissing,thediamondw4ii
  beincomplete




                                                             87

                                                                                                                             China

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                               1985     1995      2004     2005
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    ..    16.9       4.0      1.6
ImplicitGDP deflator                            10.1     13.7       6.9      3.6

Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                26.0      10.6      16.6     17.5
Current budgetbalance                            7.3      0.6       1.7      2.0    I         -GDPdeflator         +CPI           I
Overallsumlus/defiut                             0.0      -1.5     -1.5     -1.3

TRADE
                                               1985     1995      2004     2005
(US$ millions)                                                                       Exportandimport ievels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           27,350 148,760    593,369  771.511
  Food                                         3.803    9,954    16,670                                                           II
 Mineralfuels,lubricants,and relatedmaterial   7,132    5,332    14,476              800,wO

 Manufactures                                 13,522 127,295    552,616  727,191     600,WO
Total imports(cf)                             42,252 132,064    561,423  674,331
 Food                                          1,553    6,132     9,156              400,WO

  Fuel end energy                                172    5,127    46,003              200.WO
                                                                                                                                  I
 Capitalgoods                                 16,239   52,642   252,624  230,369            0

Export priceindex (2000.100)                      52      116       102      106              88  00    01    02    03     04

Importprice index (2000=100)                      74      107       112      119                a&ports          aImports      O5
Terms of trade (2000.100)                        70       110        91       66

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                               1985     1995      2004     2005
(US$ mMons)                                                                          Current account balanceto GDP (K)
Exportsof goods and services                  30,469 167,974   655,627   643,537
Importsof goods and services                 43,092 151,662     606,543 746,150     e T
Resourcebalance                              -12,602   16,092    49,264   97,366
Net income                                       641  -11.774    -3,523    4,666
Net currenttransfers                             243    1.434    22,696   10,000
Current account balance                      -11,516    5,752    66,659  112,055
Financingitems(net)                            6,096   16,711   137,705   98,000
Changes in net reserves                        5,422  -22,463  -206.364 -210,055    1     88  00    01    02     03     W     05
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)              ..  60,277   622,945  626,303
Conversionrate (DEC, locayUS$)                   2.9       6.4      6.3      6.2

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCEFLOWS
                                               1985     1995      2004     2005
(US$ millions)                                                                   ICompositionof    2004debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed           16,696 116,090    248,934
  IBRD                                          496    7,209     11,035   11,140                      A: 11.035
  IDA                                           431    7,038     10,670   9,741                                 E: 10,670

Total debt service                             2,476   15.066   23,657                                                D: 4,783

  IBRD                                            26      610     1,054    1,139
  IDA                                             4        63      264      296
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                 117      330      381
  Officialcreditors                            1,117   7,902         16
  Privatecreditors                             2,667   5,013     7,970
  Foreigndirect investment(net inflows)        1,659   35,649   54,936
  Portfolioequity (net inflows)                   0         0    10.923
Wodd Bank program
  Commitments                                  1,092   3,146      1,265              A - IBRD                         E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                 565    2,269      1,166   1,131      B IDA
                                                                                       .       D Other multilateral
                                                                                                 -                    F Private
  Prinupal repayments                             0       364      999     1,004     C. iMF                           G Shon-term
                                                                                                                        .--
  Net flows                                     565     1,905       190      127
  interestpayments                               29       509      319      430
  Net transfers                                 536     1,396     -130     -303

Note:This tablewas producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicsLDB database.                                                       6/12/06




                                                              88

Map section



