                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2597



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-75310)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

    SHANDONG POWER PLANT FLUE GAS DESULFURIZATION PROJECT



                               December 21, 2012




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective November 15, 2012)

                            Currency Unit = RMB/yuan
                              US$ 1.00 = RMB 6.24

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1 – June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAOV    Annual Average Output Value       FGD          Flue Gas Desulfurization
ADB     Asian Development Bank            FLI          Furnace Limestone Injection
APL     Adaptable Program Loan            FMR          Financial Management Report
CaO     Calcium Oxide                     FMS          Financial Management System
CaCO3   Calcium Carbonate                 FRR          Financial Rate of Return
CEM     Continuous Emission Monitor       FY           Fiscal Year
CFB     Circulated Fluidized Bed          GDP          Gross Domestic Product
CNAO    China National Audit Office       GGH          Gas-Gas Heater
CNY     Chinese Yuan                      GHG          Greenhouse Gas
CO      Carbon Monoxide                   GOC          Government of China
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy      ICR          Implementation Completion
CRESP   China Renewable Energy                         and Results Report
        Scale-up Program                   IFC         International Finance
DA      Designated Account                             Corporation
DO      Development Objective              IP          Implementation Progress
EA      Environmental Assessment           KPI         Key Performance Indicator
EIA     Environmental Impact               LIMB        Limestone Injection Modified
        Assessment                                     Burners
EMP     Environmental Management           M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
        Plan                               MOF         Ministry of Finance
EPA     Environmental Protection           NDRC        National Development and
        Agency                                         Reform Commission
ERR     Economic Rate of Return            NOx         Nitrogen Oxide
NPC     National People’s Congress         SOE         Statement of Expenditure
NPV     Net Present Value                  SPDRC       Shandong Provincial
O3      Ozone                                          Development and Reform
O&M     Operation & Maintenance                        Commission
PDO     Project Development Objective     SPEPB        Shandong Provincial
pH      Potential of Hydrogen                          Environmental Protection
PIE     Project Implementing Entity                    Bureau
PLG     Project Leading Group             SPFB         Shandong Provincial Finance
PM      Particulate Matter                             Bureau
PMO     Project Management Office         SPG          Shandong Provincial
RAP     Resettlement Action Plan                       Government
RLG     Resettlement Leading Group        TA           Technical Assistance
SBD     Standard Bidding Documents        TSP          Total Suspended Particulate
SEPA    State Environmental Protection    TTL          Task Team Leader
        Administration                    UNDB         United Nations Development
SIL     Specific Investment Loan                       Business
SO2     Sulfur Dioxide                    VAT          Value Added Tax
      Vice President: Pamela Cox
    Country Director: Klaus Rohland
     Sector Manager: Mark R. Lundell
Project Team Leader: Frederic Asseline
   ICR Team Leader: Frederic Asseline
                          CHINA
   SHANDONG POWER PLANT FLUE GAS DESULFURIZATION PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 11
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 13
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 14
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 15
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 16
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 17
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 18
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 20
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 21
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 22
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 23
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 24
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                      Shandong Flue Gas
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                      Desulfurization
Project ID:             P093882                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-75310
ICR Date:               11/27/2012              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 50.00M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 5.13M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 35.04M
Environmental Category: b
Implementing Agencies:
 Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/27/2005     Effectiveness:          10/15/2008       10/15/2008
Appraisal:            03/30/2007     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/27/2008     Mid-term Review:        06/01/2012
                                     Closing:                06/30/2012       06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                     Ratings
                        Moderately                                    Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Energy efficiency in Heat and Power                                   98                  98
Sub-national government administration                                 2                   2

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Environmental policies and institutions                               33                  33
Pollution management and environmental health                         67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           James W. Adams
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Mark R. Lundell                      Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
Project Team Leader:       Frederic Asseline                    Jianping Zhao
ICR Team Leader:           Frederic Asseline
ICR Primary Author:        Frederic Asseline

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the proposed project is to reduce SO2 emission in the heat
and power sector and enhance the capacity of regulatory authorities to monitor and
enforce compliance with their SO2 emission reduction program.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives were not revised
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally           Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised             Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target            Completion or
                                             documents)          Values            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Total amount of SO2 removed in the heat and power sector
Value
quantitative or   10,000 tons               900,000 tons                       798,000 tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                12/31/2010                         12/31/2011
Comments
                  88.6 % of the target was achieved at the end of year 2011, but none of this SO2
(incl. %
                  removal was associated with project investments.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Total amount of SO2 emissions in Shandong
Value
quantitative or   2.03 million tons         1.6 million tons                   1.49 million tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                12/31/2010                         12/31/2011
Comments          In 2010, the value was 1.54 million tons; 116% of the SO2 reduction target was
(incl. %          completed during the 11th Five year plan, but none of this SO2 emissions
achievement)      reduction was associated with project investments.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                 Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                               Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                 approval                    Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                                documents)                    Target Years
                  Component A: Rules and procedures issued on CEM installation, calibration,
Indicator 1 :
                  data collection and transmission
Value
(quantitative                               Operational                        Not operational
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                12/31/2010                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %          The component was not implemented
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Component A: Number of staff, managers and operators trained
Value
(quantitative     0                         500                                0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005                12/31/2010                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Component A: Percentage of installation and proper operation of CEMs in heat
                  and power plants
Value
(quantitative     10                       100                              0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2010                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Component A: Online monitoring system
Value
(quantitative                              Operational                      Not operational
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2010                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Component A: SO2 control policy and regulation prepared
Value
(quantitative                              Operational                      Not operational
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2010                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Component B: Installation fo FGDs and CEMs at the four sites on schedule
Value
                                                                            Not operational at
(quantitative                              Operational
                                                                            any of the four sites
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2010                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Component B: Achievement of the target SO2 removal efficiency
Value
(quantitative     0                        90-95%                           0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2010                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Component B: Total tonnages of SO2 removed annually at the five sites
Value
(quantitative     0                        58,645                           0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2005               12/31/2010                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Component B: Achievement of the target emission rate (400 mg/Nm3)
Value
(quantitative                       All                                 None
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2005            12/31/2010                          06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                           IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
                                                           Moderately
  1     06/26/2009       Moderately Satisfactory                                                5.00
                                                          Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately                  Moderately
  2     06/28/2010                                                                             15.93
                              Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
  3     06/28/2011            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                       15.93
  4     04/10/2012            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                        5.00

Note: This disbursement of US$ 5 million is the balance in the DA being returned to the World Bank
(unused as no eligible project investments took place) and the front end fee.

H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable.

I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of appraisal in year 2007 China’s GDP had been growing at a
sustained average annual rate of 9 percent since 1980, a growth sustained by a tripling of
primary commercial energy consumption, from 600 million tons of coal equivalent
(Mtce) in 1980 to 2,200 Mtce in 2005. This rise in energy demand was met by a sharp
increase in domestic coal consumption, of which more than 50 percent was used for
electricity generation in 2005. Projections at the time of appraisal showed that electricity
generation capacity would increase from 508 GW in 2005 to more than 1,100 GW by
2020, of which more than 700 GW would be coal-based.

2.      The heavy reliance on coal and the rapid expansion of the power generation
system led to severe air pollution, caused primarily by the sulfur dioxide (SO2) released
by coal combustion. The State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA)
estimated that in 2005, a total of 25.5 million tons of SO2 was released in China of which
90 percent was contributed by coal combustion. SO2 pollution caused acid rain in more
than half of China’s 696 cities, and it caused local and regional pollution with PM2.5
particles as the main factor of increased levels of respiratory diseases and related
premature deaths.

3.      In 2004, Shandong province consumed 159 million tons of coal, ranking second
among all the Chinese provinces in coal consumption and producing the highest amount
of SO2 emissions in China. Coal accounted for 82 percent of primary energy
consumption in the province, compared to a national average of about 67 percent at the
time. In 2005, SO2 emissions in Shandong Province amounted to 2.03 million tons, of
which 1.17 million tons, or 52.4 percent, were contributed by the power and heat industry.

4.       The 11th Five-Year Plan approved by the National People’s Congress (NPC) had
set a target to reduce the country’s SO2 emission by 10 percent from the 2005 level by
the year 2010. Accordingly, SEPA signed agreements with the seven largest SO2-
emitting provinces (including Shandong) and the six major power-generating companies
with specific SO2 emission control targets. The Shandong Provincial Government (SPG)
embraced the Central Government’s SO2 control policies and targets by developing its
own even more stringent SO2 emission control targets and compliance plan. The SPG’s
plan called for an overall 20 percent SO2 emission reduction by 2010 on the 2005
emission level. To achieve these targets, the SPG needed to develop detailed
implementation rules and plans, mobilize adequate financing, upgrade environmental
monitoring facilities and information systems, strengthen environmental governance and
institutional capacity to ensure compliance, and create emission certificates and emission
rights trading schemes.

5.     Consistent with the power sector reform program in China, the five large national
power generation companies undertook SO2 control projects with their own resources or
with commercial financing. However, a large segment of the power and heat sector had


                                             1
boiler units with a capacity of less than 1,100 t/h range. These units were owned by
provincial and local governments, and had neither access to commercial financing nor
adequate own resources to finance SO2 control projects. The Bank and other multilateral
financial institutions were called to support this niche segment of the power sector.

6.       One important theme of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) discussed by the
Board of Executive Directors on May 23, 2006, was to manage resource scarcity and
environmental challenges, especially through the mitigation of air pollution. The project
was to directly contribute to achieving these objectives through financing SO2 control
facilities and strengthening effectiveness of environmental institutions.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.     The development objective of the proposed project was to reduce SO2 emission in
the heat and power sector and enhance the capacity of regulatory authorities to monitor
and enforce compliance with their SO2 emission reduction program.

8.       Measures of project output during project implementation included physical
progress in procurement, construction, and commissioning of the Flue Gas
Desulfurization (FGD) facilities, availability and SO2 removal efficiency of the FGD
facilities, and progress in the implementation of the Technical Assistance (TA)
Component, including Continuous

9.      Emission Monitor (CEM) installation rate and the level of SO2 emission fee
collection.

10.    Measures of project outcome were the reduction of SO2 emissions in Shandong
Province and the direct contribution of the project to these reductions.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

11.    The objectives and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12.      The main beneficiaries identified in the PAD were: 1) the environmental
institutions in Shandong Province, notably the Shandong Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau and the municipal level environmental protection bureaus in the
province; 2) operators of the FGD systems at the sub-projects included in the project
scope; and 3) the Shandong Provincial Government. The attainment of the PDO would
benefit the general population of Shandong Province.

1.5 Original Components

13.    Technical Assistance Component: To strengthen the technical and institutional
capacity related to SO2 emission control and reduction in Shandong. It includes: (i)


                                           2
capacity building and enhancement in emission monitoring and regulation enforcement,
including upgrading of online monitoring equipment and information systems; (ii)
technical and managerial training; and (iii) development of related regulations,
procedures, and policies.

14.     Investment Component: To finance the installation of FGD facilities at four coal-
fired heat and power plants. These plants include existing coal-fired cogeneration units
and cogeneration units that were under construction or planned for construction. All
plants had selected to install limestone-gypsum wet FGD technology.

1.6 Revised Components

15.    The original components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.     Three of four subprojects dropped out of the investment component of the project
prior to loan effectiveness generally because alternative sources of financing were
available. The fourth was cancelled due to discovery of fraudulent practices. Loan funds
were reimbursed and subsequently the corresponding amount of the IBRD loan was
cancelled in June 2011. There were no other significant changes in the project design,
scope, scale, implementation arrangements, schedule and funding allocations.

17.     The relative focus of project implementation changed after the three appraised
subprojects dropped out because the Bank team spent most of its time trying to regenerate
a pipeline of appraised subprojects. For reasons discussed below, this effort not only
proved to be wholly unsuccessful but also diminished the focus on the project’s
Technical Assistance component and on the tracking of the PDO indicators (for which
information was obtained only during the ICR elaboration period). Had the TA
component gone ahead, capacity to monitor the SO2 reduction program could have been
improved, and the project would have been able to partially achieve the development
objective. This did not occur given the excessive focus on the Investment component,
which was far less relevant given superior parallel efforts to achieve FGD investments
outside of the project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.     The PDO and the project design were aligned with the Bank’s energy sector
strategy in China as articulated in the CPS discussed by the Board of Executive Directors
on May 23, 2006. One important theme of this CPS was to manage resources scarcity and
environmental challenges, especially through the mitigation of air pollution. At the
component level, technical experts were brought in to assist in review of technical
options, demonstrating a concerted effort to advance international best practices into
project design, and a thorough economic analysis was undertaken.



                                            3
19.     The project correctly identified three criteria for the successful implementation of
an SO2 emission reduction program: (a) existence of enforceable environmental
regulations and standards, (b) adequate institutional capacity to implement and enforce
laws and regulations; and (c) adequate policies and schemes to encourage and facilitate
investment in SO2 control facilities and penalize noncompliance.

20.      The Technical Assistance (TA) Component was meant to address these three
criteria. The component was designed to be financed from the proceeds of the loan and
implemented by the Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (SPEPB).
Shandong Province declared its commitment to support project management under the
Project Agreement; however, no formal agreement between the Shandong Provincial
Finance Bureau (SPFB) and the SPEPB was requested at entry to ensure funds would be
made available to the SPEPB. While the PMO was placed in the SPEPB which was the
primary beneficiary of the technical assistance and responsible for meeting the SO2 target,
SPEPB paid inadequate attention to the resources and capacity of the SPEPB PMO to
implement its responsibilities for the TA component.

21.     The project correctly identified adequate and early procurement planning, along
with realistic cost estimates as crucial to the rapid and effective implementation of the
investment component of the project, two key lessons learned from previous energy
projects. Four investment sub-projects were designed and early procurement planning put
in place with rational packaging.

22.     However, the design of the project quickly proved to be insufficiently robust due
mainly to (a) a weak SPEPB project management office which did not manage to
establish sufficiently close communications with subproject entities or undertake
appropriate supervision of subproject activities; and (b) the apparent lack of awareness by
project management and the Bank of the deliberations by the counterparts on the
preferred type of SO2 removal technology. Additionally, the availability of alternative
sources of financing in the province was not as scarce as envisioned at preparation, and
this financing was more attractive than Bank terms because it was much easier to put in
place. The target set of enterprises to be served by the project in the province (the
segment of the power and heat sector with boiler units with a capacity of less than 1,100
t/h range) was not as large as anticipated at appraisal and shrinking very rapidly due to
such enterprises moving quickly to comply with the stringent environmental regulatory
requirements owing to a delay in project approval (6 months from decision meeting to
appraisal completion, 9 months from appraisal completion to negotiations, and another 6
months to effectiveness).

23.      The delays were caused mainly by delays in domestic approvals for four new heat
and power plants for which the project was proposed to finance the associated FGD
facilities and the SPFB’s interest in maintaining the $100 million World Bank loan
allocation for the project, while subprojects to be appraised following the decision
meeting totaled only about $73 million. Additional subprojects could not be successfully
appraised despite an extended appraisal process. In the end, four subprojects remained at
negotiations, of which three dropped out before effectiveness (reasons provided below
under implementation). In parallel, by the end of 2009, one year after effectiveness, the


                                             4
province had already exceeded its SO2 emissions target with cumulative reductions
achieved at 103%. 1 This trend quickly accelerated with the province achieving a
reported 116% of its target by 2010.

24.     The risks to project development objective were correctly identified and assessed.
Given the lack of implementation in the project, a closer look at the risks to project
components is warranted. The risks assessed at entry to component results were: (a) low
availability of FGD equipment because of technical defects and lack of technical skills of
plant operators (Negligible rating); (b) low utilization rate of FGD facilities because of
plant owner’s tendency to reduce operation costs (Modest rating); (c) Limited
effectiveness of the TA component (High rating); (d) Poor attention to and compliance
with safeguards requirements (Negligible rating). All of the above risks were correctly
identified and rated. However, the mitigation measures (SPEPB and others have shown
adequate capacity and eagerness to further enhance their capabilities. The scope of the
TA is designed to fit to the specific needs of receiving agencies.) were clearly inadequate.
Moreover, the risk that alternative sources of financing would replace Bank loan funds
was not identified and assessed, even though lack of such financing was one of the main
assumptions in the project concept.

2.2 Implementation

25.    For a number of reasons noted below, neither project component was
implemented even partially. Under these circumstances, normally, an Implementation
Completion Memorandum would be prepared, but since over 10 percent of the loan funds
were disbursed (later to be refunded in full, excluding the front-end fee, as explained
below) an ICR has been deemed the necessary report. The project was closed on June 30,
2012, without having disbursed proceeds for any eligible expenditure from the loan. The
reasons for failure to make eligible use of loan funds are different for each component (as
noted below). The fast evolving SO2 control achievements of Shandong Province made
circumstances very difficult for project restructuring.

26.     The Technical Assistance component was not implemented. The Project
Management Office (PMO) did not submit a work plan to the Bank for the development
of the TA component, despite several requests from the Bank team reinforced by
management letters. It was reported by PMO staff that the funds needed to implement
the TA component were not made available by Shandong Finance Bureau due to internal,
inter-agency processing requirements (a recipients agreement to repay used funds), which
fundamentally impeded the use of loan funds for TA. The Department which was the
beneficiary for this technical assistance did not appear to play an active role in resolving
the issues between the two agencies.




1
 Source: the Environmental Bulletin of the Shandong Environment Protection Bureau website, published
by the pollution control office of Shandong EPB (http://www.sdein.gov.cn/).



                                                  5
27.     The investment component was also not implemented. Three of the four sub-
projects identified at appraisal were dropped before project effectiveness (Laiwu thermal
power plant, Huangtai thermal power plant, and Yantai thermal power plant) because
alternative sources of financing were identified. In the case of Huangtai and Yantai, the
project sponsor decided to increase the size of the CHPs (from 2x300 MW to 2x600
MW), requiring a new cycle of local and national re-approvals, stopped taking any action
on the FGD subcomponents, and indicating a strong desire to drop from the project. In
the third subproject, the subproject sponsor (who owns the Huangtai subproject and holds
the largest equity shares in the Yantai sub-project and Laiwu sub-project) did not actively
pursue counter-guarantee arrangements with SPFB and also asked to exit the project. The
overall explanation given by the three thermal power plants for pulling out was that
procedures for accessing Bank financing were complex and took too long to materialize,
in a context where local funding could be accessed much faster.

28.     Of the four original investment projects identified, only the Lubei Thermal Power
Plant Co. Ltd received funding from the Bank loan to install an FGD system. A supply
contract was signed on December 2, 2008, and approved for IBRD financing
(US$ 14,962,500). However, the Bank team discovered fraudulent practices, as defined
under paragraph 1.14(a)(ii) of the Bank’s May 2004 Procurement Guidelines, on the
contract signed on December 2, 2008, for the Lubei sub-project. As a result, funding for
the Lubei sub-project was reimbursed to the Bank in June 2011 and subsequently the
corresponding Bank loan amount was cancelled. The Bank did receive a request to
reallocate funds to the Lubei Thermal Power Plant subproject, which was not accepted.
The Bank did not receive any further request from the Ministry of Finance to restructure
the project. Consequently, the project was closed on June 30, 2012, its original closing
date. No disbursements from the remaining part of the loan were made.

29.     It should be noted that during the course of the project, the Shandong Finance
Bureau and SPEPB had presented several new subproject proposals in view of a potential
restructuring. After initial screening, only a subset of these proposals was deemed
consistent with the PDO. The Bank team worked extensively to complete the appraisal
process with the potential beneficiary enterprises but the subprojects eventually were not
able to meet Bank appraisal requirements, owing to the fact that (1) the cost estimates and
financing requirements kept changing even at late stages of appraisal; (2) the proposed
new subprojects changed a number of times with some dropping out to seek local
financing and then replaced by SPFB with new proposals; (3) the local approvals needed
by appraisal could not be obtained in a timely manner. As noted above, the fast evolving
achievements in SO2 control in Shandong Province placed pressure on potential
subproject sponsors to undertake control measures, which they could achieve more
quickly following industry practices than through use of the World Bank’s loan, which
has additional due diligence and processing requirements (both domestic procedures on
the use of foreign capital and Bank procedures). Proactive guidance by the Bank on
when restructuring no longer appears to be a realistic option (in such cases when the
Bank team and its clients are unable to deliver over a long period of time) is a key lesson
discussed below.




                                            6
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design

30.     The M&E framework was designed on a set of indicators corresponding to the
objective of the PDO (outcome indicator) and to the project’s physical progress and
provincial SO2 emissions monitoring as indicated in the Data Sheet.

M&E Implementation

31.    Monitoring of the Component A (technical assistance) was not conducted because
the component was not implemented. Monitoring of component B was conducted for
two years from early 2009 to 2011 for the Lubei sub-project only because the three other
sub-projects described in the PAD were dropped in 2008. The Lubei sub-project was
cancelled because of fraud and the Bank funding returned. From an operational and
environmental monitoring perspective, the monitoring parameters at Lubei, as
documented in mission aide memoires and ISRs for these two years, show that the FGD
operation was efficient and meeting both operational and environmental targets.

32.     The Provincial Government conducted monitoring of progress toward meeting its
11th Five Year Plan SO2 control targets. In year 2007, the total amount of SO2
emissions in Shandong was 1,822, 200 tons, and this represented a reduction of 7.12%
from 2006 levels. In year 2008, when the project was approved and became effective,
SO2 emissions were further reduced by 7.15% relative to year 2007, with a total
emissions amount that year of 1,691,900 tons. By the end of year 2009, one year after
effectiveness, the Province had further reduced its SO2 emissions by 6.01% relative to
2008, with cumulative emission reductions accounting for 103% of the SO2 reduction
target set for Shandong province at national level for the entire 11th Five Year Plan. In
2010, SO2 emissions were further reduced by 3.3 ％ , contributing to a cumulative
reduction rate of 23.22% for the province since year 2007.          By the end of 2010,
Shandong had reached 116% of the SO2 emission reduction target that had been set for
the province in the 11th Five Year Plan.


 Indicators (end of year)        2006          2007         2008        2009        2010         2011
 PDO Indicator                   Actual        Actual       Actual      Actual      Actual       Actual
                                 Value         Value        Value       Value       Value        Value
 Total amount of SO2 removed     102.6         95.92        86.26       77.27       75.9         79.8
 in the heat and power sectors
 (tons)
 Baseline 2005: 10,000 tons
 Total amount of SO2                196.2        182.22       169.19      159.03   153.78         149.08
 emissions in Shandong
 reduced (tons)
 Baseline 2005: 2.03million
 tons
 Source: the Environmental Bulletin of the Shandong Environment Protection Bureau website, published by
 the pollution control office of Shandong EPB (http://www.sdein.gov.cn/).
 Total installed capacity           17817 MW 31625            57467       60786    62486          68048
                                                 MW           MW          MW       MW             MW
 Source: Heat and Power annual reports of the Shandong Economic and Information Committee



                                                        7
M&E Utilization

33.    The M&E framework was not utilized since project components were not
implemented. The province easily met outcome indicator targets, without contribution
from the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
34.     The project was a Category B. A satisfactory Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) and Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were prepared for the Lubei sub-
project. This sub-project was subsequently cancelled due to the discovery of fraudulent
practices.

35.      The FGD system installed at Lubei used a technology different from that
described in the PAD. The change was from a Calcium Based Nonregenerable FGD
System (as described in the PAD) to a Magnesium Based Regenerable System. The
change was made so that Lubei could make better use of the spent sorbent as an input to
its fertilizer production process. The lime-limestone process, described in the PAD,
produces a spent sorbent that is basically gypsum, to be used as a building material or
simply discarded, while the latter process produces magnesium sulfite which can be
treated to release concentrated sulfur dioxide used as a feedstock in sulfuric acid
manufacturing. The treatment regenerates magnesium oxide which is recycled back to
the FGD unit. It was Lubei’s intention to utilize the sulfuric acid to make phosphoric
acid by digesting calcium phosphate ore and utilizing the phosphoric acid in the
production of fertilizers. The technology change request to the Bank was made to and
approved by the Bank during project implementation. A revision to the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) to reflect this change should have been made at the time of
approval. Still, the update of the EMP was eventually completed. Discussions with both
Provincial and local EPB officials indicated that all Chinese environmental assessment
procedures were properly followed in allowing the technology change.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

36.    As noted in the Monitoring and Evaluation section above, Shandong had achieved,
and even surpassed, its 11th Five Year Plan SO2 emission reduction targets already by
2009. Environmental regulations to reduce SO2 emissions were reported to be
successfully introduced and uniformly implemented throughout the province. As early as
2008, all large existing power producers had retrofitted their plants with FGD systems
and after 2008, all new power plants large or small were required to be commissioned
with FGD systems. After 2008 new power plants without FGD systems could not receive
authorization from provincial EPB and provincial DRC to operate. This policy continues
today.

37.     Only a handful of smaller, older plants remained as candidates for retrofits after
2008. Most of these plants did install FGD systems during the 11th Five Year Plan, and
they did so using their own financing or local financing sources.


                                            8
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

38.     The project’s objectives remain largely consistent with China’s focus on
sustainable economic growth and reducing environmental impacts of energy use. China’s
Energy Policy White Paper (2012) clearly notes under the heading “Promoting Clean
Development of Fossil Energy? that new built coal fired thermal power generation must
install dust removal, desulfurization and nitrous oxide emission control facilities and
existing plants are encouraged to accelerate the deployment of emission controls.

39.      The new CPS (FY2013-2016) acknowledges the great strides undertaken by
China in air pollution, the costs of air pollution, the cost of illnesses from pollution has
climbed as the population ages and the urban populations grows. The CPS has as one of
its pillars the demonstration of pollution management measures. While not focusing
exclusively on SO2 controls, it does include supporting efforts to reduce urban air
pollution, working at both the national level (providing TA related to standards,
monitoring, and regional strategies) and the municipal level (supporting detailed action
plans and investments designed to reduce pollution from the worst sources). Regarding
the energy sector, the CPS shows the Bank has also adapted its support plan, focusing on
assisting China’s efforts to support a sustainable energy path through scale up of
renewable and energy efficiency, finding low carbon energy solutions in cities,
promoting innovative solutions to development of clean energy policies.

40.     The project objectives broadly correspond to the Government’s environmental
objectives and the project’s design and objectives corresponded closely with the
Shandong Provincial Government’s SO2 control plan. However, it should be noted that
the relevance of the project diminished during the extended two year project preparation
period and during the project implementation period. At appraisal, it was not projected
that SO2 targets set out during the 11th FYP in 2006 were going to be fully achieved by
2009. The SPG reported to have attained 103 % of the target by the end of 2009, only
one year after project effectiveness. As described in section 2.3 above, by 2010 the
province had reached 116% of its 11th Five Year Plan SO2 emission reduction target.
The EPB project management office staff reported 95% percent of the plants in Shandong
being equipped with FGD systems by late 2009. Had the project been more quickly
approved and deployed it would have been more likely to contribute to SPG’s efforts. In
the end, the two project components were not implemented as designed and produced no
project outcomes.

41.     In summary, while the objectives of the project were set out in a satisfactory
manner and remain consistent with broad environmental objectives today, the project’s
design and implementation is less relevant given the policies and procedures in place for
SO2 controls. The delayed initial implementation undermined the potential contribution
the project may have had to current policies and programs supporting air pollution
control. As a result of the above the relevance of project objectives, design and
implementation was moderately unsatisfactory.


                                             9
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Unsatisfactory

42.     None of the two project components were implemented, and therefore the project
did not finance any investments that could contribute to achieving its development
objective.

43.    However, as noted above, development outcomes were reached by Shandong
province without the intervention of the project.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Unsatisfactory

44.     Efficiency as defined as the rate of return or cost effectiveness of project
investments is not applicable under the project. Three subprojects were dropped prior to
effectiveness and one subproject was cancelled due to fraudulent practices. The technical
assistance project was not implemented. As there are no project inputs, there is no data
on which to make a determination of project efficiency. A rating of unsatisfactory is
assigned based on the fact that, in addition to the client’s time and resources, the Bank
spent $424,000 (preparation and supervision) without any discernible contribution of
project activities to the development objective as noted above.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

45.   Based on the above ratings that reflect the fact that neither of the two project
components was implemented, the project outcome rating is unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

46.    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. Not applicable.

47.     Institutional Change/Strengthening. The project intended to strengthen SPEB’s
capacity in SO2 control but could not contribute to this objective because the technical
assistance component was not implemented.

48.     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative). The Bank
maintains an ongoing portfolio in Shandong province, including in the energy sector. The
project’s experience has alerted teams to work with Shandong Finance Bureau more
closely on adequate project management financing and to conduct more vigilant financial
management supervision.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

49.    Not applicable.




                                              10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

50.      Given the previous ratings of the project, a conclusion could be drawn that the
risk to development outcomes is high. However, the reported progress of the SPG in SO2
control and supporting regulations suggests that a moderate risk to development
outcomes is a more appropriate assessment. There is insufficient evidence on the quality
of implementation to justify a lower rating. While the SPG appears to have found
alternative financing sources to build capacities the project aimed to do, there was a
missed opportunity to use project funds to bring in international experience and best
practices in least cost environmental planning and implementation, and developing local
institutional capacity required for monitoring and enforcement of environmental
regulation.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

51.    Given the ratings discussed in Section 3.1 above on Relevance of Objectives,
Design and Implementation, the Bank’s performance at quality at entry is assessed as
moderately unsatisfactory. Technical experts were brought in to assist in review of
technical options, demonstrating a concerted effort to advance international best practices
into project design, and a thorough economic analysis was undertaken. However,
inadequate attention was paid to assessing the implementing arrangements and SO2
control technology choices contemplated by the subproject entities. The wet limestone
gypsum FGD process described in the appraisal document is not the FGD technology that
was selected by the Lubei sub-project, which opted for a Magnesium oxide FGD system.

52.    As noted above, no formal agreement between the Shandong Provincial Finance
Bureau (SPFB) and the SPEPB was sought to ensure funds would be made available to
the SPEPB both for TA and project management. Provincial regulatory requirements
placed significant time pressure on power generators to equip their plants with FGD
systems and only one year after project effectiveness, close to 95% of power plants in
Shandong province were equipped with FGD systems.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Unsatisfactory

53.     The overall performance of Bank supervision was unsatisfactory. The financial
management supervision was highly satisfactory and the team handled the discovery of
fraudulent practices effectively. The Bank team also worked to identify a short list of
alternative subprojects that were proposed by the Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau
throughout the project period. However, the lack of adequate information regarding these
potential new subprojects increased the input requirement of supervision and distracted


                                            11
the team from placing adequate focus on tracking the Province’s wider efforts on
reducing SO2 emissions. Greater management guidance and support to the team could
have helped to establish better balance in this regard, perhaps with an early cancellation
or raising issues with Government counterparts to accelerate new subproject preparation.
In addition the Bank team should have requested a view of the Project Leading Group,
the high level steering committee of the project, when unsatisfactory implementation
persisted.

54.     In summary the Bank team was so focused on assisting the Province with
preparing a restructuring package, which persistently changed, and later on the due
diligence that was needed upon the discovery of fraudulent practices that it could not
focus on tracking the SO2 emission reduction program undertaken by the Province. This
imbalance in focus of project supervision leads this ICR to deem the Quality of
Supervision as unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

55.    Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory, based on the ratings for quality at entry
and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

56.    Overall, government performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. Government
was committed to the project during preparation and was proactive in attempting to
reprogram the use of loan funds. However, project outcomes may have been achieved
with a well-supported PMO, capable of adjusting the TA component, communicating
closely with identified subproject sponsors to ensure they understood requirements and
timelines, and facilitating timely and adequate preparation of alternative subprojects.
The TA component could not be implemented due to the inability of SPFB and SPEPB to
complete internal processing requirements. The passivity of the SPEPB in resolving the
matter may be an indication of its waning interest in the TA as a result of its good
progress in achieving its SO2 targets.

57.     Also, failure to identify the fraud that occurred in the Lubei sub-project suggests
that inadequate financial management control mechanisms were put in place for the
project. The financial management control mechanisms did not (i) maintain proper
financial management systems and enhance the controls over transactions including
compliance with legal agreements and eligibility criteria, and (ii) enhance the controls
over transactions financed by the Bank including proper reconciliation of data,
compliance with legal provisions and eligibility, before processing such transactions.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory



                                            12
58.     The implementing agency performance is rated unsatisfactory. The PMO in the
Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (SPEPB) did not to produce a
satisfactory work plan for the TA component. Despite efforts to identify new sub-projects
to replace the three original sub-projects that were dropped, the PMO lacked capacity to
provide the Bank team with complete appraisal packages for newly proposed subprojects.

59.     Moreover, the SPEPB did not maintain sufficiently close contact with the project
implementation entities to monitor their deliberations and alert the Bank on the major
changes that quickly occurred during project implementation. The project implementing
entity of the Lubei investment subcomponent also failed to identify fraudulent practices.

60.    Still, the PMO was diligent in assisting the Bank team during the fact finding
mission during the due diligence conducted upon discovery of fraudulent practices.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

61.    Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory based on the ratings of the
performance of the government and the implementing agencies.

6. Lessons Learned

62.     A project supporting mandatory targets should carefully time project support
with the targets’ timeline. The PDO was timely and relevant at the time of identification
and preparation, but the ability of the project to make an impact was continuously
reduced as developments in the province quickly outpaced the preparation of the project.
The expectations and timelines of subproject sponsors outpaced and mismatched with the
project’s preparation timeline.

63.     Early communication to the final borrowers of the Bank’s project cycle and
timing of availability of funding is needed, especially when working with corporations.
The Bank requirements and procedures, and the internal requirements for the use of
foreign capital, appear to have been misunderstood by the subproject sponsors at the time
of appraisal. This may have been a key underlying reason for the dropout of the three
subprojects that were in the original design. The target set of enterprises to be potentially
assisted in making FGD retrofits in the province was a shrinking one, with most of the
large power producers equipped. With all of the new operators (large or small) moving
to equip themselves with FGC technology as mandated by regulations, the project could
target only retrofitting of small plants linked to industrial electricity production. Given
the lack of sufficient knowledge of Bank subproject appraisal procedures and
requirements, the uncertainty of qualifying quickly for access to project loan funds drove
these enterprises to alternative sources of financing.

64.    Advance procurement of technical assistance, on a retroactively financed basis,
and greater attention to final recipients of the technical assistance could mitigate risks
of poor loan-financed TA execution. Even well-justified and necessary loan-financed


                                             13
technical assistance carries high borrower performance risk because few borrowers
appreciate its value added in advance of implementation. Borrowers prefer grant
financed TA, even in middle income countries. Finance bureaus do not wish to carry the
loan repayment responsibility on their budgets especially for TA implemented in other
agencies. The TA component failed because the SPFB and SPEPB could not agree on
these internal arrangements during implementation to overcome aversion to use of non-
grant resources for TA activities. A willingness to undertake the TA component early in
project implementation is a sign of commitment to the use of loan financed TA, and that
internal arrangements are settled. The Bank team could have had a more balanced focus
on resolving the lack of progress in the TA component, rather than focusing only on the
issues between the PMO and SPFB. An engagement with the leadership of the relevant
departments in the SPEPB, which were to be the final beneficiaries of the TA, could have
helped to solve the issues.

65.    Strong project management units are needed to support finance bureaus in
supervising multiple subprojects. This includes implementation arrangements with clear
and transparent financial management systems, complemented with Bank team fiduciary
supervision plans tailored to the assessed risk.

66.     The Bank needs to be more proactive and clearer on initiating project
restructuring. Client orientation and responsiveness are hallmarks of good project
management. Few clients like to cancel IBRD loan funds and Bank teams work very hard
to accommodate these requirements. In addition, central governments wish to avoid
multiple restructurings, which in turn creates barriers to efficient, partial adjustments that
would help achieve the PDO even without full use of loan proceeds within the original
implementation period. Clear guidance for task teams on good practices in restructuring
would help task teams be forthcoming and able to attain earlier resolution of flaws in
project design despite client reluctance towards early restructuring.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

67.    Borrower/implementing agencies. Comments have not been received.

68.    Cofinanciers. Not applicable.

69.    Other partners and stakeholders. Not applicable.




                                             14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Investment                              74.955              0.00                 0.00
Technical Assistance                     2.28               0.00                 0.00
            Total Baseline Cost         77.235              0.00                 0.00
Contingencies
                                              4.36                0.00           0.00
Interest during construction                  4.42
                                                                  0.00           0.00
Front-end fee                                 0.125               0.00           0.00
     Total Financing Required                86.14                0.00           0.00


(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing       (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                              17.23       0.00          0.00
 International Bank for Reconstruction                                         0.00
                                                       50.00       0.00
and Development
 Local Sources of Borrowing Country                    18.91       0.00        0.00
 Sub-borrower(s)                                       0.00        0.00        0.00
                                                       86.14       0.00        0.00




                                               15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

There were no outputs.




                                16
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable as none of the project investments were made.




                                          17
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
           Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Zhao Jianping             Senior Energy Specialist             EASCS   Task Team Leader
Peter Meier               Economist                            EASTE   Economic Analysis
Dawei Yang                Procurement Specialist               EAPCO   Procurement
Efstratios Tacvoulareas   Senior Operations Officer            CEUSB   Operations Support
                          Senior Procurement Specialist (Co-
Yuling Zhou                                                    EASTE Procurement
                          TTL)
Jian Xie                  Senior Environmental Specialist      EASRE Environment
Richard Spencer           Senior Energy Specialist             EASVS Energy
Bernard Baratz            Consultant                           EASCS
Mei Wang                  Senior Counsel                       LEGAM legal
Supervision/ICR
Frederic Asseline         Senior Energy Specialist             EASCS Task Team Leader
Gailius Draugelis         Lead Energy Specialist               EASCS Task Team Leader
Bernard Baratz            Consultant                           EASCS
Cristina Hernandez        Program Assistant                    EASWE
Yi Dong                   Sr Financial Management Specia       EASFM
 Haixia Li                Sr Financial Management Specia       EASFM
Jingrong He               Procurement Specialist               EASPM
Shawna Fei Li             Junior Professional Associate        EASIN
 Guojun Ma                Consultant                           EASCS
 Peter Meier              Consultant                           EASWE
 Efstratios Tavoulareas   Senior Operations Officer            CEUSB
 Helmut Erich Vierrath    Consultant                           EASIN
 Mei Wang                 Senior Counsel                       LEGAM
 Lynn Wang                Consultant                           EASFM
 Dawei Yang               Consultant                           EASTS
Youxuan Zhou              Consultant
 Chunxiang Zhang          Operations Analyst                   GFDRR


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                  182.04
  FY07                                                                  107.99
  FY08                                                                   29.68
                          Total:                                        319.71
Supervision/ICR


                                          18
FY09                  36.82
FY10                  23.88
FY11                  38.71
FY12                   6.83
       Total:        106.24




                19
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      20
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                   21
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Borrower’s inputs were not received.




                                       22
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                    23
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   1. Project Appraisal document

   2. Project legal documents including project agreement and loan agreement

   3. Project file containing records of project preparation and appraisal

   4. Supervision aide-memoires, management letters, and Implementation Status and

   Results reports

   5. Project Feasibility Studies

   6. Environmental Bulletin of the Shandong Environment Protection Bureau website,

   published by the pollution control office of Shandong EPB (http://www.sdein.gov.cn)




                                           24
Annex 10. Map

Map No.: 38067-CN




                    25
