 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14621

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/09/2015

               Country: China
             Project ID: P093882                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Shandong Flue Gas            Project Costs (US$M):                    86.1                86.1
                         Desulfurization
  L/C Number:            L7531                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                  50.00                      5.1
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining           Cofinancing (US$M):                  NONE

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                             05/27/2008
                                                               Closing Date:          06/30/2012         06/30/2012
          Sector(s):       Energy efficiency in power sector (49%); Power (49%); Sub-national government
                           administration (2%)
         Theme(s):         Pollution management and environmental health (67% - P); Environmental policies and
                           institutions (33% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:          ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy John R. Heath               Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The development objective of the proposed project is assist Borrower’s Shandong Province in reducing SO2
emission in the heat and power sector and enhance the capacity of regulatory authorities in Shandong Province to
monitor and enforce compliance with their SO2 emission reduction program in Shandong Province.(Loan Agreement
page #5)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 .
1) Technical Assistance Component: (Appraisal cost US$ 75.00 million. Actual cost is not valid as component was
not implemented)
The component aimed to strengthen the technical and institutional capacity related to SO2 emission control and
reduction in Shandong Province. It included (i) capacity building and enhancement in emission monitoring and
regulation enforcement, including upgrading of online monitoring equipment and information systems; (ii) technical
and managerial training; and (iii) development of related regulations, procedures, and policies.

The Technical Assistance (TA) component was not implemented. Despite several requests from the Bank team
reinforced by the management, the Project Management Office (PMO) did not submit work plan to the Bank for the
development of the TA component. According to the ICR, the funds needed to implement the TA component were not
made available to the PMO by Shandong Finance Bureau, the beneficiary for this technical assistance, due to
internal, inter-agency processing requirements.

2) Investment Component: (Appraisal cost US$ 2.00 million. Actual cost is not valid as component was not
implemented)
The component aimed to finance the installation of Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) facilities at four coal fired heat and
power plants. These plants included existing coal fired co-generation units and those units that are under construction
or planned for construction. All plants were selected to install limestone gypsum wet Flue Gas Desulphurization
(FGD) technology

The investment component was not implemented. Three of the four sub-projects identified at appraisal were dropped
before project effectiveness (Laiwu thermal power plant, Huangtai thermal power plant, and Yantai thermal power
plant). The sub- project sponsors identified alternative sources of financing. According to them, procedures for
accessing Bank financing were complex and took too long to materialize, in a context where local funding could be
accessed much faster.

The fourth sub-project ‘Lubei Thermal Power Plant Co. Ltd’ received funding from the Bank loan to install an FGD
system. Though a supply contract was signed on December 2, 2008, and was approved for IBRD financing, the Bank
team discovered fraudulent practices, as defined under paragraph 1.14(a) - (ii) of the Bank’s May 2004 Procurement
Guidelines. As a result, funding for the Lubei sub-project was reimbursed to the Bank in June 2011 and subsequently
the corresponding Bank loan amount was cancelled. The Bank received a request for reallocation of funds to the
Lubei Thermal Power Plant sub-project, but it was not accepted.

Changes during Implementation
Loan funds were reimbursed and subsequently the corresponding amount of the IBRD loan was cancelled in June
2011 because the components were not implemented as mentioned in the above section. There were no other
significant changes in the project design, scope, scale, implementation arrangements, schedule and funding
allocations.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Costs:
The estimated cost at appraisal was US$ 86.1 million (US$ 50.00 million + US$ 36.21 million). The actual cost at
completion was US$ 86. 1 million (Annex 1 of ICR).

Financing:
Of the total amount of US$ 50.00 million signed for IDA financing, the actual disbursement was US$ 5.1 million. This
amount was refunded in full, excluding the front-end fee. There was no co-financing (Annex 1 ICR)

Borrower Contribution :
The original borrower commitment was US$ 36.21 million (17.2 million from Borrower + US$ 18.91 million through
local commercial Bank sources). However, the actual contribution was zero (Annex 1 of ICR).

Dates:
The project closed on schedule on 06/30/2012.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial

The original objective was not changed during the project period .

At the design stage, the DO supported China’s environmental sustainability objectives and the Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS -approved by the Board on May 23, 2006) by directly contributing towards managing resource scarcity
and environmental challenges. As such, the DO was relevant to mitigate air pollution through financing SO2 control
facilities and strengthening effectiveness of environmental institutions. At project closure, the DO continued to be
consistent with the new CPS (FY 2013-2016).

At the national level, the DO was largely coherent with China’s focus on sustainable economic growth and reduction of
environmental impacts of energy use. The DO conforms to China’s Energy Policy White Paper (2012) on the
requirements for the newly built coal fired thermal power generation units and for those units that are currently in
existence. However, the significance of the DO was somewhat compromised by the extended two year project
preparation period.

b. Relevance of Design:
Modest
The design was founded on a concerted effort to advance international best practices by engaging technical expert
reviewers. The components were suitably chosen to support the achievement of the PDO and to address the single
most serious environmental challenge in energy use. The causal chain was comprehensive and captured the
dimensions of the development objective.

With regard to implementation arrangements, the design tactically endorsed Shandong Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau (SPEPB) as the primary beneficiary of the technical assistance and the agency for meeting the
SO2 and placed PMO within the SPEPB. However, the design fell short of considering the implications of placing the
PMO within Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (SPEPB) without a formal agreement between the
Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau (SPFB) and the SPEPB to make funds available to the SPEPB. As such, the
design of the implementation arrangements failed to consider the extent of availability of alternative sources of
financing in the province to counter the Bank proposed fund flow plan for SPEPB.

The design identified a substantial level of risk but, did not provide for effective mitigation measures to address the
different types of risk. For instance, the identified risks included. (a) low utilization rate of FGD facilities because of
plant owner’s tendency to reduce operation costs (Modest rating); and (b) Limited effectiveness of the TA component
(High rating), among others.. However, the risk of alternative sources of financing replacing Bank loan funds was not
identified and assessed.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Negligible
None of the two project components were implemented, and therefore there are no outcomes against which
achievement of objectives can be computed.

The results framework reflects achievement of the two DO indicators that were achieved outside the project
investments. The DO indicators are : (i) Total amount of SO2 removed in the heat and power sector and (ii) Total
amount of SO2 emissions in Shandong

5. Efficiency:
 Negligible
Economic and Financial Efficiency
Three sub-projects were dropped prior to effectiveness and the fourth sub-project was cancelled due to fraudulent
practices. The technical assistance component was not implemented. As there are no project inputs, there is no data
on which to make a determination of project efficiency. According to the ICR, the Bank spent $424,000 (preparation
and supervision), in addition to client time without any evident contribution of project activities to the development
objective as noted above.

Administrative Efficiency
The Project experienced a steady decline in administrative efficiency starting from design and continuing into
implementation. Some of the key reasons that contributed toward the deficiency are : (i) Project Management Office
(PMO) was based in SPEPB without any formal agreement with Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau (SPFB) to
make funds available to SPEPB; (ii) inability of SPEPB to identify alternate sub-projects that comply with the Bank’s
appraisal requirements; (iii) fraudulent procurement practices under the fourth sub-project ‘Lubei Thermal Power Plant
Co’ leading to cancellation of corresponding Bank loan amount; and (iv) lack of clarity of the Bank procedures for
accessing Bank financing among the sub-project sponsors.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      24.5%                                    87%
    ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
  The project components were not implemented. Therefore, no outcome is attributable to the project.
 a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory
 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The ICR confirms that critical risks were identified as part of project preparation and endorses the futility of these
efforts given the components were not implemented. However, the ICR records that, although progress has been
made by the Shandong Provincial Government (SPG) in supporting regulations of SO2 and ensuring its control, there
is not enough evidence to justify its quality.

      a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Project was prepared with a high level of political support from the Shandong Provincial Government
(SPG).

Project preparation was founded on sound evaluation of technical options. The Bank team brought in technical
experts in to assist in review of technical options, demonstrating a concerted effort to advance international best
practices into project design. The two components of the project were suitably chosen to support the achievement
of the PDO. The Bank team correctly identified three criteria for the successful implementation of an SO2
emission reduction program and endorsed its applicability through its two components.

A cost-benefit analysis for each proposed sub-project was conducted to examine its economic viability. The
aggregate economic rate of return (ERR) of the project was estimated at 24.5 percent, falling to 23.3 percent when
increased COS emissions are valued at US$10 per ton C02. According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
this high return reflected the high environmental cost associated with uncontrolled emissions. With regard to
financial rates of return (FRRs) ranged from 10 to 20 percent for different sub projects. On the overall project
therefore reflected good economic returns and financial returns for the project proponents.

The project was founded on the previous energy projects. According to the PAD, the Bank team identified the
need for adequate and early procurement planning, along with realistic cost estimates as crucial to the rapid and
effective implementation of the investment component of the project. Four investment sub-projects were designed
and early procurement planning was put in place with rational packaging.

The results chain was comprehensive and supported by measurable indicators.

Bank team failed in four critical areas. The Bank team did not:

      Establish formal agreement between the Shandong Provincial Finance Bureau (SPFB) and the SPEPB to
       ensure funds would be made available to the SPEPB both for TA and project management;
      Fully comprehend the extent and terms of availability of alternative sources of financing in the province ;
      Ensure awareness within the project management and the Bank on the counterpart deliberations related to
       preferred type of SO2 removal technology; and
      Recognize the implications of delay in project approval on the target number of enterprises (6 months from
       decision meeting to appraisal completion, 9 months from appraisal completion to negotiations, and another 6
       months to effectiveness).

According to the ICR, these delays were caused mainly due to delays in domestic approvals for four new heat and
power plants for which the project was proposed to finance the associated FGD facilities. In addition, SPFB
continued to hold its interest in maintaining the $100 million World Bank loan allocation for the project, while
sub-projects to be appraised following the decision meeting totaled only about $73 million. Additional sub-projects
could not be successfully appraised despite an extended appraisal process. In the end, four sub-projects
remained at negotiation of which three dropped out before effectiveness.


      Quality-at-Entry Rating:                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The overall performance of Bank supervision was unsatisfactory. Neither project component was implemented.
With regard to the first component on technical assistance, according to the ICR the Project Management Office
(PMO) did not submit a work plan to the Bank for the development of the TA component, despite several requests
from the Bank team reinforced by management letters.

In place of three of the original investment sub-projects that were cancelled, SPEPB presented several new
sub-project proposals in view of a potential restructuring. After initial screening, only a subset of these proposals
was deemed consistent with the PDO. The Bank team worked extensively to complete the appraisal process with
the potential beneficiary enterprises but the sub-projects eventually were not able to meet Bank appraisal
requirements, owing to the fact that (1) cost estimates and financing requirements kept changing even at late
stages of appraisal; (2) proposed new sub-projects changed a number of times with some dropping out to seek
local financing and then replaced by SPFB with new proposals; (3) local approvals needed for appraisal could not
be obtained in a timely manner.

Though a supply contract was signed and approved for IBRD financing in 2008 for the remaining fourth original
investment project “Lubei Thermal Power Plant Co. Ltd”, the Bank team discovered fraudulent practices in the
contract, as defined under paragraph 1.14(a)(ii) of the Bank’s May 2004 Procurement Guidelines. As a result,
funding for the Lubei sub-project was reimbursed to the Bank in June 2011 and subsequently the corresponding
Bank loan amount was cancelled even though there was a request for reallocation of the funds to the Lubei
Thermal Power Plant sub-project.

This in turn, forced the Bank team from placing adequate focus on tracking the Province’s wider efforts on
reducing SO2 emissions. In parallel, the provincial regulatory requirements placed significant time pressure on
power generators to equip their plants with FGD systems and only one year after project effectiveness (2009),
close to 95% of power plants in Shandong province were equipped with FGD systems. Furthermore, the province
also exceeded its SO2 emissions target with cumulative reductions achieved at 103%.This trend quickly
accelerated with the province achieving a reported 116% of its target by 2010, though none of the SO2 emissions
reduction was associated with project investments. The fast evolving SO2 control achievements of Shandong
Province made circumstances very difficult for project restructuring. Additionally, the Bank did not receive any
further request from the Ministry of Finance to restructure the project after the cancellation of the loan amount
related to the Lubei Thermal Power Plant sub-project. Consequently, the project was closed as originally
scheduled on June 30, 2012. No disbursements from the remaining part of the loan were made. There were also
no indication of any proactive guidance by the Bank Team or the Management during the overall implementation
period, when restructuring was not a realistic option.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Government was committed to the project during preparation and was proactive in attempting to reprogram the
use of loan funds. However, the decline in the government interest during implementation is well demonstrated in
passivity of the SPEPB in resolving the implementation hurdles related to both components. Secondly, the SPG
provincial regulatory authority put time pressure on power generators to equip their plants with FGD systems and
moved the efforts to equip 95% of the power plants in Shandong province with FGD systems, only one year after
project effectiveness, reducing the relevance of the subject project. Lastly, the inadequate financial management
control mechanisms that were put in place for the project, leading to fraud, emerge as another critical indication of
the lack of government commitment during the implementation.

   Government Performance Rating                               Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The PMO in the Shandong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (SPEPB) did not to produce a
satisfactory work plan for the TA component. Despite SPEPB’s efforts to identify new sub-projects to replace the
three original sub-projects dropped under the second component, it lacked capacity to provide the Bank team with
appraisal packages that complied with the Bank appraisal requirements.
SPEPB did not maintain sufficiently close contact with the project implementation entities to monitor their
deliberations and alert the Bank on the major changes that quickly occurred during project implementation. The
project implementing entity failed to identify fraudulent practices in the Lubei sub-project.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E framework was consistent with the PDO. The DO and intermediate outcome indicators were tangible and
relevant to capture the achievement of the DO and the two components.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Results framework (RF) reflects monitoring of the two DO indicators --- (#1 Total amount of SO2 removed in the
heat and power sector and (#2) Total amount of SO2 emissions in Shandong). RF reports on the achievement of
actual values of the two DO indicators at completion though these target values are not associated with the subject
project investments. As such, the reporting of these indicator achievements outside the project is deemed redundant
by IEG.

With regard to the intermediate outcome indicators, of the two Components, Component A (technical assistance) was
not monitored because the component was not implemented. With regard to Component B, the ICR reports that
Lubei sub-project was monitored for two years from early 2009 to 2011, while other three sub-projects were dropped
in 2008 before effectiveness. The Lubei sub-project was later cancelled because of fraud and the Bank loan amount
was returned. According to the ICR, from an operational and environmental monitoring perspective, the monitoring
parameters at Lubei as documented in mission aide memoire and implementation status reports
(ISRs) for these two years, show that the FGD operation was efficient and meeting both operational and
environmental targets. However the results framework does provide evidence.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The M&E framework was not utilized since project components were not implemented.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Social: The project triggered OP 4.12. Resettlement action plans for the two newly constructed power plants (Yantai
Bajiao and Laiwu) were developed and disclosed in accordance with the Chinese law and Bank policy by the
sub-project sponsors. The other two construction of FGD facilities were proposed to be located within existing power
plants (Huangtai and Lubei) with no new land acquisition and resettlement. Annex #10 of the PAD provides details.

Of the four selected power plants, only the Lubei plant was partially implemented. However, there is no section on the
social safeguards in the ICR to reference its position within the Lubei plant.

Environment: The project was a Category B. A satisfactory Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were prepared for the Yantai Bajiao, Laiwu, Huangtai and Lubei power
plants. However only Lubei sub-project was partially effective and was subsequently cancelled due to the discovery
of fraudulent practices.

According to the ICR, the FGD system installed at Lubei used a technology different from that described in the PAD.
The change was from a Calcium Based Non-regenerable FGD System (as described in the PAD) to a Magnesium
Based Regenerable System. The technology change was approved by the Bank during project implementation. The
change was considered in order for Lubei to make better use of the spent sorbent as an input to its fertilizer production
process. However, though a revision to the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) to reflect this change should
have been made at the time of approval, the EMP was updated on a later date, but there is no evidence of disclosure
Discussions with both Provincial and local EPB officials indicated that all Chinese environmental assessment
procedures were properly followed in allowing the technology change.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement
Building on the previous energy projects, the Bank team correctly identified the need for adequate and early
procurement planning, along with realistic cost estimates as crucial to the rapid and effective implementation of the
investment component of the project. Four investment sub-projects were designed and early procurement planning
put in place with rational packaging.

However, procurement performance was problematic during implementation. As detailed in the above sections, of the
four original investment sub-projects, only the Lubei Thermal Power Plant Co. Ltd was deemed effective. A supply
contract was signed and approved for IBRD financing in 2008 for “Lubei Thermal Power Plant Co. Ltd”. But soon after,
the Bank team discovered fraudulent practices in the contract, as defined under paragraph 1.14(a) of the Bank’s May
2004 Procurement Guidelines. As a result, the funding for the Lubei sub-project was reimbursed to the Bank in June
2011 and subsequently the corresponding Bank loan amount was cancelled even though there was a request to
reallocate the funds to the Lubei Thermal Power Plant subproject.

Financial Management
The financial management control mechanisms did not (i) maintain proper financial management systems; (ii)
strengthen the controls over transactions including compliance with legal agreements and eligibility criteria, and (iii)
enhance the controls over transactions financed by the Bank including proper reconciliation of data, compliance with
legal provisions and eligibility, before processing such transactions. However, according to the ICR task team:: "
Fiduciary supervision helped to uncover fraudulent practices" (ICR, p. 11)..


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
According to the ICR, the Bank maintains an ongoing portfolio in Shandong province, including in the energy sector.
The project’s experience has alerted teams to work with Shandong Finance Bureau more closely on adequate project
management financing and to conduct more vigilant financial management supervision.

d. Other:
NA


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Significant          Lack of evidence to justify its quality
                     Outcome:                                                   control regulations of SO2 in the ICR.
                                                                                According to the flagship Urban China
                                                                                report (2013 -2014), China faced a
                                                                                “paradox of comprehensive legislation
                                                                                but weak enforcement” including
                                                                                variable quality of installation and
                                                                                operation of emissions controls and
                                                                                continuous emissions monitoring
            Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.
13. Lessons:
  Four of the ICR lessons have been modified and rewritten by IEG:

Strong project management units are needed to support finance bureaus in supervising multiple sub -projects.
This includes implementation arrangements with clear and transparent financial management systems,
complemented with Bank team fiduciary supervision plans tailored to the assessed risk.

Competency and Commitment should be assessed as part of selecting the project implementation unit . The
project exemplifies the consequences of having the implications of a weak project management unit and the
negative impacts from absence of up-front procedural agreements. As such, it endorses selection of the project
management unit and up-front agreements critical for effectiveness.

Project supporting mandatory targets should carefully time project support with the targets’ timeline . The PDO was
timely and relevant at the time of identification and preparation, but the ability of the project to make an impact was
continuously reduced as developments in the province quickly outpaced the preparation of the project. A strategic
situation analysis emerges as critical for similar initiatives. Such analysis, would help the Bank to decipher lessons
from the ground to better position itself.

The Bank needs to be more proactive and clearer on initiating project restructuring . Client orientation and
responsiveness are hallmarks of good project management. Global experience indicates that restructuring is not
always easy, particularly when the client loses interest in obtaining the funds that the project was intended to
supply. Clearer guidance on how to handle restructuring would help task teams to be forthcoming and attain earlier
resolution of flaws in project design.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is consistent with the OPCS guidelines on the ICR format. The section on lessons learnt is evidence based
and comprehensive. Stakeholders are well defined and the draft endorses their participation in various segments of
the project cycle. Poverty, gender and social issues are in the appropriate section as per OPCS guidelines and
reported to be not applicable

However, the ICR lacks clarity and precision in presenting the implementation of the project, particularly in relation to
identification and resolution of fraud. The ICR falls short in reporting compliance with social, procurement and financial
management. The results framework reports on the actual value of the end target of the DO indicators though these
target values are not associated with the subject project investments. As such, the reporting of these indicator
achievements outside the project is deemed redundant by IEG. Thus it becomes difficult to get an accurate overview
of the projects performance, limitations and useful insights.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
