Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22367
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42710; PPFB-P2250; TF-27056)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF fNDIA
FOR
THE HARYANA POWER SECTOR RES,TRUCTURING PROJECT
06/27/2001
Energy Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs.)
100.00 Rs. = US$ 2.08
US$ 1.00 = Rs 48
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 -   March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                  Adaptable Program Lending
DEA                  Department of Economic Affairs
DFID                 Department For International Development (UK)
DHBVN                Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam
DSCR                 Debt Service Coverage Ratio
FRR                  Financial Rate of Return
FY                   Fiscal Year
GOH                  Government of Haryana
GOI                  Government of India
GWh                  Gigawatt hours
HERC                 Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission
HPGC                 Haryana Power Generation Company
HSEB                 Haryana State Electricity Board
HVPN                 Haryana Vidyut Parasaran Nigam
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IPP                  Independent Power Producer
kWh                  Kilowatt hours
LIC                 Life Insurance Company
MU                  Million Unit (unit = 1 Kwh)
NPV                  Net Present Value
NTPC                 National Thermal Power Corporation
PAD                  Project Appraisal Document
PFC                  Power Finance Corporation
PGCIL                Powergrid Corporation of India, Ltd.
PPIP                 Project and Program Implementation Plan
QAG                  Quality Assurance Group
REC                 Rural Electrification Company
RFQ                 Request for Qualification
UIHBVN               Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam
USAID                US Agency for International Development
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Alastair J. McKechnie
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Djamal Mostefai



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
HARYANA POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   I 1
6. Sustainability                                                                       14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        16
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                      22
9. Partner Comments                                                                     27
10. Additional Information                                                             32
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   48
Annex 8. Haryana Power Utilities: Operational and Commercial Improvement Initiatives    53
Annex 9. Main Achievements of the Haryana Electriciity Regulatory Commission            57
Annex 10. Key Results of the Emergency Investment Program                               62
Annex 11. Note from Haryana on the State's Achievernents                                65
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ProjectlD.- P035160                                       |Project Name: HARYANA POWER APL-I
Team Leader: Djamal Mostefai                               T TL Unit: SASEG
ICE Type: Core ICi2                                       |Report Date: Jtne 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name. HARYANA POWER APL-I                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-42710;
PPFB-P2250;
TF-27056
CountryIDepartment: INDIA                                                  Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: BI - Institutional Development; BR - Public
Enterprise Reform; PD - Distributicn &
Transmission
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/16/94                                 Effective: 03/01/98            03/20/98
Appraisal:  09/15/97                                   MTR:
Approval:  01/15/98                                 Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  GOI/Government of lHaryana; Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB) and
successor utilities
Other Partners:  Department For Intemnational Development (DFID). United States Agency for
International Development (USAID)
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                             Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager:      Edwin Lim                                  Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:       Alastair MckKechnie                        Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:   Djamal Mostefai                            Djamal Mostefai
ICR Primary Author:    Djamal Mostefai
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satsfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=rModest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: HS                      HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. This project ("the Project") is the first of a series of Adaptable Program Lending (APL) operations
aimed at providing programmatic support ("the Program") to Haryana to reform its power sector. More
specifically:
*   The original objective of the Program was: "to ensure that by year 2007, the power requirements for
Haryana's economic growth and its population are met, and that consumers are provided with reliable,
high-quality and cost-effective electricity services by creditworthy and commercially-operated power
utilities, functioning in a competitive and appropriately regulated power market, with significant
private ownership and participation".
*   The original objective of the Project, consistent with the Program's objective was: "to initiate the
reform process of the power sector by: (i) establishing the new legal, regulatory and institutional
framework (including the creation of an independent Regulatory Commission and the new power
corporations, and the initiation of the privatization of the distribution business); and (ii) removing the
most critical bottlenecks of the power system with a view to demonstrate - in a few selected areas - the
benefits, which could be expected from a successful reform of the power sector."
The objectives of both the Program and of the Project were consistent with the Country and State's
priorities and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) prevailing at the time of the project
preparation and approval (1997-98) (Report 14509 - IN of May 1995). Specifically, one of the CAS
objectives was to aim at containing power infrastructure bottlenecks by promoting and implementing
comprehensive state power sector reforms. The promotion of sectoral reforms at the state level were to
contribute to state finance adjustment, institutional capacity building, and increased resource mobilization
for public and private infrastructure investments. By reducing pressures on the state's public finances, and
removing sectoral constraints to the State's econornic growth, power sector reforms are therefore essential
to facilitate sustainable poverty reduction.
3.1.2. The project design, which built notably upon the experience available at that time from the Orissa
power sector reform, was directly relevant towards achieving the above objective:
*   In-depth reforms were required. The Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB), the vertically-integrated
state-owned monopoly, was plagued with huge commercial losses (essentially due to theft of power),
pervasive political interference, and dominated by bureaucratic behaviors; the reforms were to
transform it into commercial utilities operating under a new environment where political, policy,
regulatory and operational functions would be separated, and where theft of power and other leakage in
distribution would be combated through changes in ownership.
*   There were no results available from similar experiences in India to support such a reform agenda;
consequently, there was a major need to demonstrate what could be the benefits of the improvements
in the quality of the electricity services that reforms were expected to bring, notably in rural areas, to
improve farming productivity and incomes. Such a demonstration effect was a major step to develop a
constituency for change, and ultimately, make the reform agenda politically and socially acceptable.
3.1.3. These were clear and important project objectives. But they were very complex to achieve and
highly demanding for the State and other implementing agencies.
- 2 -



Politically: the implementation of these key structural measures were to take place when: (i) India was
undergoing a political crisis at the national level; (ii) the previous experience in Orissa power sector had
generated a considerable opposition and not yet shown any tangible results; (iii) the political leadership in
Haryana, who had initiated the reforms, weakened considerably; and (iv) a new political leadership
emerged in mid-1999. The reform program involved a series of measures, which would hurt vested
interests, generate opposition and be used for political purposes.
Technically: the reforms included: (i) the enactment of a new and complex legislation (the Haryana
Electricity Reform Act); (ii) the establishment of a Regulatory Commission; (iii) the un-bundling and
establishment of new utilities in generation, transmission and distribution; (iv) the transfer of staff, assets,
and liabilities; (v) the financial restructuring of successor companies; (vi) the functioning of the sector
under a new set of regulations; (vii) preparation of distribution privatization strategy, and initiation of the
transaction; and (viii) implementation of an investment program based on standards and criteria (in
particular for distribution), which had never been used by the Haryana utilities. The planning, design and
implementation of most of these measures involved new concepts for Haryana.
Institutionally: several offices of the State were involved almost on a daily basis for the implementation of
the reform program. They included: (i) the political leadership given the extreme sensitivity of the issues in
the power sector reforms; (ii) at least two departments within the state administration (the energy and
finance secretariats); (iii) several utilities: initially HSEB; then the transmission and generation companies
following the first round of unbundling; and subsequently the two distribution companies after the second
round of unbundling; and (iv) the nascent Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC). In
addition to the World Bank, Haryana's other donors including Department for Intemational Development,
UK (DFID), and the US Agency for International Development (USAID), were involved since the early
stages of the project. Lastly, several intemational and national consulting firms participated in the project
(see para 3.3).
3.1.4. The proposed project also included the initiation of the privatization of distribution. This project
development objective was ambitious for a number of reasons: tight timeframe for implementation, poor
financial condition of the sector, prevailing pervasive resistance to increasing tariffs of power supplied to
agriculture, and very uncertain overall political environmrent. But given the huge losses incurred by the
utilities, GOH considered, and the Bank agreed, that privatization of distribution was an objective to be
pursued aggressively.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was not restructured, and the objectives remained the same during the life of the project.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. The project comprised three main physical components:
A.   Support for critically needed emergency investments in transmission, sub-transmission and
distribution systems (US S62,300,000). Apart from strengthening the overall system, investment for
specific works comprised:
* Three 220 kV, three 132 kV, six 66 kV lines and three 220 kV, two 132 kV and five 66 kV
- 3 -



substations to expand and strengthen the grid system; and
*   Investments in sub-transmission and distribution systems to rehabilitate and strengthen 24
substations (33 kV) and 50 feeders (11 kV).
B.  Improvement of commercial and technical services to the consumers (US $1,200,000), including
introduction of decentralized computerized billing at sub-divisional offices, improvement and
upgradation of consumer complaint handling system, and improvement of safety and working
conditions of the utility staff; and
C.   Technical assistance and engineering services for reform program management and implementation,
communication, institutional development of new power companies and Regulatory Commnission,
distribution privatization, demand side management and promotion of non-conventional energy
sources and engineering services (US $13,500,000).
3.3.2. These project components were well suited to achieve the part of the project objective aiming to
demonstrate the potential benefits that improvements in the quality of electricity services would bring
about. Given the financial constraints faced by the utility and the small size of the loan, they aimed at: (i)
removing the most critical bottlenecks in Haryana's power transmission to evacuate additional power that
would become available and stabilize voltage conditions; (ii) improving the availability, reliability and
quality of power supply in a few select areas (among the worst in the state in terms of quality conditions);
and (iii) creating a new image of the utilities by improving customer services in order to build support and
constituency for reform and restructuring.
3.3.3. Technical assistance was critical to support the state govemment and the emerging new entities
(new companies and Regulatory Commission) in implementing the first stage of the reform program,
develop the capability of the new companies in commercial, financial and regulatory areas to enable them
to function in the new commercial and regulated environment. Technical assistance to the newly established
HERC was also essential to support them in comprehending, planning and implementing a variety of
regulatory measures.
3.4 Revised Components:
Marginal change was brought to the original components of the project: few evacuation lines, which were
initially included in the physical scope of the project to evacuate power from the expected nine 25 MW
private power plants were dropped since these power plants did not materialize. In place of these
evacuation lines, Haryana procured distribution goods used for partial rehabilitation of additional 160
numbers 11 kV feeders in consistence with the project's objectives.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. QAG rated the project highly satisfactory (HS) in 1998 for quality at entry based on an in-depth
review. The ICR rating is in agreement with QAG's rating. The project objectives are fully consistent with
the CAS objectives and the country's priorities. The project, as part of a wider programmatic support, was
well designed to meet these objectives and also to mitigate the grave political risks, which were
appropriately assessed during the design of the project.
- 4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This project is part of a wider program, and its assessmeint cannot be done independently of the program
context. With the initiation of the reform process in Haryana, the project has achieved parts of its
objectives; but other parts of the objectives (notably financial improvements), have not been achieved. In a
broader context, the achievement of the program's objectives would be dependent on Haryana taking the
next critical step in the reform program, i.e. privatizing distribution business, a key measure to ensure
sustainable improvements and development of the power sector. Due to a change in political commitment to
reforms, notably to distribution privatization, the achievm,ent of the outcome of the program became very
uncertain.
4.1.1. Achievement of project's objective.
Key Project Performance Indicators              Completion Date        Actual
__________________________________________        (PAD)
Comprehensive reform legislation enacted                        April 1998        August 1998
Regulatory Commission established                               April 1998        August 1998
Restructuring measures effected and new power utilities established and operational
-Transmission and generation companies                          April 1998        August 1998
-Distribution Companies                                       September 1998       July 1999
Strategic private investor for one distribution company selected  End 1998         Not done
Financial restructuring measures completed as per the Haryana's Financ ial Restructuring Plan
-HSEB's assets/liabilities restructured and transferred to successors  April 1998    1  August 1998
-Provision of budgetary support                                       Substantially done
-Rescheduling of debt and commercial liabilities                 June 1998         Partially
implemented
-Tariff adjusted                                                    Partially implemented
a.     Haryana has achieved some of the project objectives by establishing a new legal, regulatory and
institutional framework, including the creation of an independent Regulatory Commission and the
new power corporations, albeit with some delays To date, the unbundling of the power sector has
been completed with the establishment of the Haryana Power Generation Corporation (HPGCL),
responsible for power generation (along with IPPs and central generating stations); Haryana
Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited (HVPNL), responsible for purchase of power from generating
stations, transmission and bulk supply to distribution companies ; and two distribution companies
Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam and Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitaran Nigam (DHBVN and
UHBVN), responsible for retail power supply to consumers in Haryana. These companies have
started to operate along the principles underpinning the new institutional and regulatory
framework. Some initial signs of commercial tension and performance improvements are evident
with the segregation of the generation, transmission and distribution business: there has been
improvements in the plant load factor (PLF) and fuel consumption in the power plants, where as
distribution companies are focusing on consumet services, billing and collection. (Annex 8 further
describes operational and commercial improvement initiatives by Haryana power utilities.) But
there is also no doubt that further progress couald be achieved, notably to instill a much more
- 5 -



business-oriented culture in the management of the utilities, one the objectives of the subsequent
APL operations envisioned in the program.
b.     The Regulatory Commission is functional: it has established important guidelines of sector
regulation on annual revenue requirement, tariffs, power procurement and has issued several key
orders (see Annex 9). The performance of the companies is being monitored through license
conditions, directives in the tariff orders and monitoring of compliance with the Commission's
guidelines and regulations, including consumer's right regulation, code of bill payments, etc. In
particular, the Regulatory Commission has demonstrated its capability to take independent
decisions, including on the highly controversial issue of agricultural tariffs, by ordering, in its first
tariff order (December 2000), an increase in agricultural tariff of 50% (see Annex 9).
c.     The investment program has been substantially implemented as initially envisioned and has
contributed to removing the most critical bottlenecks of the power system. In the few areas selected
for implementing investments under the project, the benefits of improvement in the quality of power
supply  have been amply demonstrated. The transmission investment program has assisted in
improving the grid voltages, meeting the load demand and improving the system reliability.
Distribution investment have improved LT voltage, reduced the burning rate of distribution
transformers, reduced outages and reduced the technical system  losses: Section 4.2. further
describes this achievement and Annex 10 provides a detailed assessment of the operational
improvements (quality of power, system losses and transformer failure) resulting from the
investment measures supported by the project. Consumers have reported (survey carried out by an
independent agency in April 2001) perceptible improvements in quality and reliability of power
supply in the areas where rehabilitation of distribution system has been achieved under the project.
d.     As part of the overall reform agenda, Haryana prepared a financial restructuring plan (FRP). The
FRP included a series of measures (notably on tariffs, efficiency improvements, debt and
commercial liabilities rescheduling, support from the state government, balance-sheet
restructuring) expected to restore the creditworthiness of the power utilities. The FRP was one of
the policy commnitments taken by Haryana before the loan was approved and was covenanted (for
the part to be executed during the implementation of APL 1). The FRP has been implemented only
partially and with delays. As a result, the actual financial requirements of the sector have
increased, thus requiring deeper financial restructuring.
e.     Haryana was among the first states to achieve significant rescheduling - it rescheduled loans worth
Rs. 415 crore ($88.3m) to LIC and REC, and prepaid to Peerless high-cost debt worth Rs. 118
crore ($25.1 rnillion), and also converted its dues to NTPC and NHPC of about Rs. 550 crore
($117 million) into long-term bonds between 1998-2000. In addition, during FY 2001, Haryana
issued bonds worth Rs. 655 crore ($139.36 million) to suppliers such as NTPC, NHPC, PGCIL
and NPC. These measures have provided temporary reprieve to the utilities but in the absence of
sustainable improvements in financial and operational performance the payables will once again
accumulate.
f.     Retail tariffs were not adjusted at the pace assumed in the FRP. Tariffs were adjusted in June
1998 by about 11-12% (with a change in the slab system which led to some reduction in revenues
from agriculture) against an FRP assumption of 15% for non-agricultural categories. The next
tariff increase took place two and half years later, in December 2000, amounting to 11.5% average
increase. In addition, monthly minimum charges were raised very significantly, contributing an
- 6 -



additional estimated 4-5% of revenue over a full year, and earlier in the year, a fuel surcharge of
about 5% was levied.
g.    The State of Haryana, as the owner of the power utilities, has enabled them to file in 2000 for, and
implement, as of January 2001, a substantial increase in agricultural tariffs of about 50% as per
the Regulatory Commission's order, breaking what was apparently a major deadlock in the reform
program. In spite of this increase, agricultural tariffs in Haryana, albeit among the highest in India,
remain low (around 75 paise equivalent to 1.7 US cents).
h.    The Government has continued to substantially meet its financial commitment to the sector and has
provided budgetary support (in the form of subsidy and equity) as required to cover the financial
gap of the sector but with increasing difficulties. For FY 1999, against a commitment of Rs. 720
crore ($153.19 million), the Government provided Rs 689 crore ($146.60 million) in cash. For FY
2000, the Government provided Rs. 632 crore ($134.46 million) in cash against a commitment of
Rs. 760 crore ($161.7 million), the balance being adjusted against future repayment of the Bank
loan to the state government (see Section 7.6.2.5). Due to the continuing financial crisis in the
sector, the Government decided to increase its support for FY 2001 from Rs. 490 crore ($104.26
million) to Rs. 878 crore ($186.81 million), which the Regulator further enhanced to Rs. 1034
crore ($220 million). While these figures reflect the Government of Haryana's consistency in
providing subsidies, they also dramatically illustrate the budgetary impact of delays in reforms: for
FY 2002, the Government has decided to provide subsidy of Rs. 1134 crore ($ 241.28 million); for
the same year, the FRP had estimated that the government support would reduce to less than Rs.
200 crore ($42.55 million). The Government's own finances are becoming increasingly constrained
though, and in FY 2001 it could provide only about Rs. 450 crore against its commitment, while
during the current FY 2002, it has so far been able to provide only lower amounts.
i.    Efficiency improvements also did not materialize to the extent projected. The FRP had envisaged a
significant improvement in collection efficiency from 91% in FY 1998 to 95% in FY 2001 and a
reduction in T&D losses of 3% points (from a hypothetical 33% in FY 1998 to 30% in FY 2001).
Actually, collection efficiency declined to about 87% in FY 1999 before increasing dramatically to
about 94% in FY 2001. This significant increase in cash collections during FY 2001 is primarily
due to the exemplary efforts launched by the newly created distribution companies with the
commitment and support of the state Government. T&D losses (which include a significant
amount of theft of power in the distribution network) have been restated at more realistic levels by
the utilities and the Regulatory Commission at 4l%, but they have not been reduced, except in the
few areas for which the APL1 investment program has been implemented. As Annex 1 shows,
metered data from five rehabilitated feeders indicate reduction in technical losses ranging from
1.3% to as high as 11.8% after rehabilitation.
4.1.2. Linkages with the program. A key aspect of the reform agenda undertaken by Haryana is the
privatization of distribution. In the absence of private distribution, all the measures already effected would
bear only limited results and, in any case, would be insufficient to achieve Haryana's reform objectives.
Privatizing (even partially) distribution was not part of the project's objective, although, initiating the
privatization process was a step that Haryana had decided to undertake during the implementation of this
project. This linkage between the project and the program is a key element for understanding the ratings
of this first APL project.
* As per the Project and Program Implementation Plani (PPIP), the distribution privatization was to take
- 7 -



place in a phased manner, with one distribution company privatized by first quarter 1999 and entire
distribution privatized by December 2001. Distribution privatization of the North company was
initiated by Haryana in April 1999 with the issuance of advertisement. The RFQ was issued in May
1999. Haryana received eight proposals in response to the RFQ. However, the new state government
which took office in July 1999, decided to take a fresh look at the reform program, and put the
distribution privatization program in abeyance.
*   More important than the transaction steps which have been taken (and not pursued), is the fact that the
principle of distribution privatization has not yet been endorsed by the Government which came to
power mid-1999, which means that a key feature of the reform agenda remains unconfirmed and not
backed by political support. Therefore, albeit several aspects of the project's development objective
had been achieved, the lack of clear political endorsement regarding distribution privatization makes
the success of the reform program more uncertain.
Based on the assessment carried out in Sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 above, the project's outcome is therefore
rated unsatisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Summary. The project included three components: the first two components were largely of
physical nature and aimed at removing bottlenecks and demonstrating, in selected areas, the benefits of
system improvements and reforms; while the third one was to support the new companies in implementation
of the first phase of the reform, institutional capacity building and preparing the companies for the next
phase of reform. The following table summarizes the achievement of the project's outputs.
Output Indicators (PAD)                             Achievements
Power System Strengthened in Prioritv Areas (via Emergency Action Plan)
Evacuation and transmission of 650 MW additional    432 MW from NTPC Faridabad Gas Station evacuated
power                                          Additional liquid-fuel based power generation
(fortunately) did not materialize. Project resources
were re-allocated for rehabilitation of additional feeders.
Improved voltage profile in selected areas     Significant improvements (see annex 10)
Reduction in system losses in selected areas   Some likely improvements (see annex 10)
Improved Efficiency and Effectiveness in Consumer Services for Selected Areas
Gradual improvement in consumer services       Limited improvements (see annexes 8 and 10)
Improved consumer support to power sector policy  Some improvements documented by market research
survey. (survey by an independent consultant under
way)
Preparation Substantially Comileted for the second phase of the program
Policy and institutional development programs/  Partially achieved, but a major policy measure
measures initiated                             (distribution Privatization) in abeyance
Engineering and procurement arrangements       Substantially done
4.2.2 Power system strengthened in priority areas (through an Emergency Action Plan)
At the time of loan closure, about 87% of the loan had been disbursed. The implementation of this physical
component has been substantially completed, and the remaining investments underway are planned to be
completed by June 2001.
-8 -



4.2.2.1. Transmission works. The project provided transraission lines to transport 650 MW of additional
power. 220 kV lines and substations for evacuation of the power from the Faridabad 432 MW combined
cycle gas plant have been completed. Other 132 and 66 kV lines for evacuating about 220 MW from liquid
fuel based units did not materialize because the corresponding generating units were not comrnissioned
(with hindsight, a fortunate outcome given the huge increase in the costs of naphta-based power
generation). The transmission lines were well designed, they reduced the line losses, improved the voltage
and strengthened the grid system in selected areas (see Annex 10).
4.2.2.2. Sub-Transmission Works. One imnportant component was the augmentation of transformner
capacities at twenty four 33kV substations. 49 transformners of 6.3/8 MVA each were procured. In spite of
repeated advice provided by the supervision mnissions, the utilities did not install these transformers as
initially designed (2 identical transformers in parallel). Instead, these transformers were spread over 37
substations in view of transformer capacity constraints. Now HVPN has ordered additional transformers of
the same ratings and specifications. It is expected that by end December 2001, all the 24 project
substations will have two transforners in parallel as originally designed.
4.2.2.3. Distribution works. The distribution works have been largely completed albeit behind schedule.
By May 2001, in UHBVN, about 98% of HT works and 99% of LT works have been completed. In
DHBVN, about 95% of HT works and 89% of LT works have been completed. All the remaining works
are expected to be completed by end June, 2001.
4.2.3. Improvement of commercial and technical services to the consumers for selected areas. This
is certainly the area where progress has been the most linmited. A recent survey carried out by an
independent market research consultant funded by DFID found that, although the quality of power supplied
in areas covered by APLI improved significantly, there was no perception of improvements in the quality
of commercial and technical services provided by the utilities: non-recording of consumer complaints,
absenteeism of line staff, inaccurate billing, delays in connection release and bill verification, harassment
and demand for informal payments (particularly during times of transformer bum-out in the paddy season)
by utility staff have been widely reported in the survey.
4.2.4. Readiness for Phase II of the Program. One of the important outputs of the APL I was to make
Haryana ready for the subsequent phase of the program. This output has been achieved only partially.
Although several key policy measures had been taken (see Section 4.1.1 above), the suspension of
privatization of distribution, the uncertainty surrounding the policy position of the state government on this
matter and the deterioration of the financial condition of the sector represent a major set back.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1. The economic analysis has been carried out for the project supported by the APL 1. The economic
rate of return (ERR) is estimated to be 88% for transmission component, 26% for distribution component
and 22% for the total APLI project. Benefits include reduction in technical losses, both in transmission and
distribution systems, resulting from the construction of new transmission lines and sub-stations and the
rehabilitation of 11 kV feeders (80 feeders with ftill rehabilitation and 130 feeders with partial
rehabilitation). The economic cost is estimated before taxes and duties and the benefits are estimated at the
willingness to pay of the consumers, which is consistent with the methodology adopted at appraisal.
Additional benefits are in the form of improvements in voltage conditions, reduction in distribution
transformer failure rate and reduction in the interruptions faced by the consumers, which are well
documented by Haryana and also through the consumer surveys conducted by independent consultants.
These are significant benefits of the project, but are difficult to quantify. The recent sector work completed
-9-



on "The Supply of Power to Agriculture in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh" (see Section 10) provides some
estimates of the benefits to farmers of higher-quality of electricity services: the farners' incomes (notably
for small and marginal farmers) would significantly increase as a result of improved irrigation and farming
efficiency even if electricity tariffs were increased manyfold.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1. The financial rate of return of the project (APL 1) is estimated to be 18%. The benefits include
reduction in technical losses, both in transmission system and distribution system through rehabilitation of
11 kV feeders. It will be extremely difficult to estimnate the benefits of reduction in non-technical losses
until complete metering of all consumers is achieved, and these benefits have not been included in the
estimation. To this extent, the net benefits and the ERR and FRR are underestimated. During appraisal,
the reduction in non-technical losses was estimated to be 136 MUs per year; assuming that 50% of this is
realized from FY2004 onwards, the FRR for the APLI project will increase to 22%.
4.4.2. While the financial and economic returns of the investment project are robust, and show the
inherently essential nature of the specific investments, the financial condition of the sector continues to be
critical. While, because of the way the tariffs are structured, HPGC and HVPN are likely to show a profit
in FY 2001, the losses of the distribution companies is increasing, currently estimated at Rs. 1430 crore
($304.25 million) for FY 2001 (before subsidy of Rs. 769 crore ($163.62 million) and before including a
regulatory asset of Rs. 259 crore ($ 55.11 million). Their deficit in FY 2000 (July 1999-March 2000, after
their creation) was Rs. 720 crore ($153.19 million) before subsidy. Even though HPGC and HIVPN are not
making losses anymore, their cash shortfall is significant, deriving primarily from the inability of the
distribution companies to collect their bills and therefore pay for the bulk power supplied. Receivables of
HVPN from the distribution companies are estimated at Rs. 1800 crore ($382.98 million) or 7 months
worth of sales in FY 2001, and as a result, HVPN had to reschedule dues worth Rs. 655 crore ($139.36
million) to its suppliers during the year. The distribution companies have faced cash shortfalls during FY
2001 despite very dramatic increases in collection efficiency primarily because tariffs continue to be below
cost, and because the Government could not pay to the full extent the committed amount of subsidy and
equity to the companies (see Section 4.1.1). For FY 2002, despite optimistic assumptions of efficiency
improvement, the distribution companies expect a loss of Rs. 845 crore ($ 179.79 million), to be covered
primarily by govermnent subsidy.
4.4.3. The mrain reasons for this continued financial crisis are well-documented: (i) continuing high T&D
losses, currently officially estimated now at 41% by Haryana (but below the 47% estimated in the sector
work " India: Power Supply to Agriculture" recently completed); (ii) inadequate tariffs coupled with rising
costs - average tariffs are Rs. 2.9/ unit compared to average cost of supply of Rs. 3.9/ unit; and (iii)
continued supply to unremunerative categories of consumers. Despite the large increase in agricultural
tariffs in December 2000, the level of subsidy for agriculture is still estimated at more than Rs. 920 crore
($195.74 million) (or Rs. 3.25/ unit), only a small part of which (Rs. 150 crore or $31.91 million) is
expected to be covered by cross-subsidization from other categories.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. The project has had a significant institutional development impact:
a.     Major changes in the legal, regulatory and structural frameworks have been implemented;
b.     The new power companies of the restructured sector have started to work along the principles
- 10 -



underpinning the reform agenda, the staff of erstwhile HSEB has been transferred to the new
companies, separate balance sheets of the companies have been created, new organizational
structures with adequate focus on specific functions of the respective companies have been
prepared with guidance and support of consultants, special attention/ focus has been given to
strengthen the capacity of the transmission and distribution companies in the area of regulation and
finance, some pilots to demonstrate the likely benefits of efficiency improvement were carried out.
The companies have started to focus more on their specific functions and this has lead to some
efficiency gains. For instance efforts are being madie to reduce transmission and distribution losses,
and to carry out energy audit at all levels. Distribution companies have launched drive to control
theft and pilferage of energy and improve collection efficiency; HPGC, the generating company,
has improved its PLF and reduced fuel consumption (see Annex 8). Several intemational and
domestic consultants have assisted Haryana in to imnplement the reform program and built capacity
in the new institutions; and
c.     The regulatory institution HERC, established as part of the first phase of the reform program is
fully functional. It has its own office, infrastructure and staff. In the span of three years since its
creation, the Commission has made very good progress in building its capabilities, specifically in
the areas of regulation, economics and finance.
4.5.2. The institutional development efforts need to be firther reinforced: (i) the institutional capacity of
the transmission company is still limited; systems and procedures need to be developed to enable the
company to operate fully on commercial principles; (ii) the boards of directors of all the utilities need to be
strengthened; (iii) much more emphasis on human resource development and training of staff is required;
(iv) the process of selection and promotion of staff in the utilities need to be adapted consistent with
corporate commercial practices; and (v) HERC has now to operate without the support of any technical
assistance . The results achieved on the institutional development front need to be consolidated, and would
remain very fragile if the reform process were not to continue.
4.5.3. DFID provided support for the implementation of reform program, notably for the institutional
development at the sector level. Assistance of the consultants on a variety of financial, legal, commercial,
and management issues was essential for the successful and smooth unbundling and establishment of the
new entities in power sector. The most important support has been in the area of regulation, which was
absolutely new area. DFID supported consultants have provided significant support for establishment of
HERC, training of staff on key regulatory issues and principles and supporting HERC to develop their
guidelines/ process of operation, rules and regulations, tariff setting principles and approaches, etc. DFID
supported consultants, on the other hand provided hands-on support and training to staff of the companies
by working along them on licensing issues, ARR, tariff filing, etc.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Three main factors, outside the control of the Government of Haryana and the implementing agencies
affected substantially the achievement of the project outcome and objectives:
a.     At the end of 1998, the central Government of India lost to a confidence motion, and new national
elections were called for. This created complex political issues at the state level and contributed to
the change in government in Haryana in mid-1999. This uncertainty and volatility in the Haryana
- 11 -



political context were not conducive to taking the politically difficult decisions required to
implement the reforn program;
b.     The reforms in the Orissa power sector generated a considerable opposition, notably among staff
who actively lobbied other states and various constituencies (political parties, unions, NGOs)
against these reformns. No other state had undertaken similar reforms (the next state was Andhra
Pradesh which passed the Electricity Reformn Bill in 1999), and this mnade the beginning of the
reform process rather difficult. However, during the implementation phase of reform in Haryana,
several states initiated comprehensive power sector reform program, including Andhra Pradesh,
Uttar Pradesh, Kamataka and Rajasthan which could have strengthened Haryana's decision to
reform and facilitated the implementation. It should be noted that, in 1999, Haryana played a
significant role in "advising" Rajasthan to undertake simnilar power sector reforms.
c.     Lastly, the neighboring state, Punjab, took populist measures such as providing free power to
farmers. Given the proximity and close links between the Punjab and Haryana (notably within the
farming community), this extemal move created a lot of embarrassment to the Haryana government
and affected its capability to take hard decisions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
The following factors affected the implementation and outcome of the project
a.     The new government which took office about 12 months after loan effectiveness, decided to revisit
and review the power sector reform program. The restructuring, tariff and institutional measures
were confimned or resumed after deliberations and review: but other key measures such as
privatization of distribution were not endorsed. In fact, following the change in government in
1999, the reform program, as stated in the various power policy pronouncements, was not backed
by a clear and strong political commitment nor promoted by reform "champions". There is no
doubt that, if such a political commitment had existed and if reform "champions" had actively
promoted the reform agenda, the project outcomes would have been much better;
b.     Significant delay on the part of GoH to sign the amended legal agreements with the Bank for the
project after the establishment of the new power companies, resulted in suspension of
disbursements for about eight months; this had an impact on the utilities procurement pace; and
c.     The allocation of high-level staff resources to guide and monitor the implementation of the reform
program was very uneven: several changes took place over time in energy secretaries, chairpersons
and managing directors of the utilities, reform directors.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1. Reform Measures. The main factor, under the control of the implementing agency, relates to the
intemal arrangements for managing the reform program. More specifically:
a.     A common reform group was created to deal with both investment and reform aspects. Given the
prevailing engineering culture in the utilities, technical and engineering issues captured most of the
attention of the staff in the reform group.
- 12 -



b.     Not enough staff have been appointed in the reforrn group; generally, posting in the reform group,
in Panchkula, at the headquarters of the main utility, was not an attractive option for staff. In
addition, staff in the refonn group, with few noticeable exceptions, were more interested in the
technical, engineering and investment aspects; and, in many cases, they did not have the proper
skills and interests to deal with reforms. The reform group was dissolved in 1999 after the
complete unbundling of the sector and the establishment of all the new entities (since the
management and staff of these entities would take over most of the functions played by the reform
group). Between June 1997 and the dissolution of the reform group, at least six (6) reform group
directors were appointed.
c.     The relationships with the consultants, in the early phases of their assignments, were not optimal.
The relative weakness of the reform group was certainly one among the multiple reasons for this.
5.3.2. Investment Measures.
a.    Implementation issue: Procurement of project high voltage transmission works was done on
"supply and erect" basis. This arrangement worked well and these works were generally
implemented satisfactorily. However for distribution works, the approach was different: goods
were procured by the utilities and erected through labor contractors, while the utilities' operation
staff was entrusted with the responsibility of hiring these contractors and supervising their work.
This arrangement did not work well and in fact caused substantial delays in implementation as the
utility staff was very busy with day to day operational, administrative and other problems and had
no time to devote to planning and construction of new distribution works. In addition the hiring of
local labor contractors also caused substantial delays (one major issue being the rates to pay to
labor contractors). On hindsight, new construction divisions should have been created in the
beginning for this work exclusively, and distribution works should have been performed on a
"supply and erect" basis. This would have certainly ensured timely and smooth completion of the
works, and therefore earlier benefits.
b.     Procurement and Disbursement issues. The procurement actions by Haryana utilities have been
generally very time consuming. In particular, they have rarely met the timeframes which had been
agreed between DEA and the Bank and which were recorded in the Bank letter to DEA of July 31,
1998. Had Haryana utilities pruned their processing of bid evaluation and submission of contract
award recommendation, contractors would have got ample time to manufacture and supply goods
before the closing date of the loan. This would have meant probably a full utilization of the loan
arnount.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.4.1. As per the PAD, the estimated project cost was $77 million with the Bank contribution at $60
mnillion and the remaining by Haryana. On account of loan closure on December 31, 2000 an amount of
$7,653,927.92 Tnillion has been canceled out of the Bank's share.
5.4.2. Reallocation among categories. The allocation of funds over different categories was revised as
follows:
- 13 -



Category          Original Allocation    Revised Allocation
(US$)                 (US$)
Works                        12,200,000                 0
Goods                       40,000,000             57,750,000
Services                     2,800,000                150,000
Refund of PPF                                        2,100,000
Unallocated                   5,000,000                0
Total                       60,000,000              60,000,000
This reallocation was essentially due to the fact that the civil works (required for erecting the transmission
lines and the sub-stations, and rehabilitating the distribution feeders) were lower than anticipated and were
therefore either booked under "goods" (transmission works) or funded directly by the implementing
agencies (distribution works). The additional resources were used to procure distribution goods in
consistence with the project's objectives. In addition, since DFID supported a comprehensive technical
assistance program (see section 9), additional funding requirements for services were minimal.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. Policy Measures. The achievements generated, or expected to be generated by the project, are
only part of a wider and longer program. Their sustainability cannot be assessed without taking into
account the longer term perspective, and therefore making assumptions about the continuation or not of the
reforrn program. At this point, Haryana has laid some foundations for a reformed power sector: this would
allow the State to continue and deepen the reform process. However, the absence of a clear policy
Eramework to continue the reform agenda and further delay in resuming the reform process would make it
more difficult and costly; this would significantly increase the risks of no resumption at all, of further
deterioration of the financial condition of the utilities, and at the end a reversal of the measures already
taken. This is why, in the absence of such a clear policy framework and with the uncertainties surrounding
the continuation of the reform agenda, the sustainability of the results achieved so far in reforming the
power sector is rated as "unlikely".
a.     The unbundling and functional separation of generation, transmission and distribution business has
facilitated a more focused operational approach by the respective companies. As mentioned in
section 4.5 and detailed in Annex 8, the utilities have taken several initiatives to contain theft of
power, improve collection and increase operational efficiencies. But how sustainable would these
improvements be in the absence of further reform steps, remains a question. The acquisition of
separate institutional identities, as part of the process of moving toward more commercial,
self-interested behavior, has been hampered by the designation of the same chairperson as head of
the utilities and secretary in charge of the power sector. In the absence of real managerial
autonomy, restoration of creditworthiness of the utilities, commercial behaviors, privatization of
distribution, and all the other measures that were part of Haryana's reform agenda, the structural
measures would have very limited effect; and in some cases, may increase the overall sector
inefficiencies.
b.     The establishment of the regulatory commission, its functioning and establishment of processes
(e.g. tariff setting, licensing), which involves consultation with various stakeholders, is expected to
foster greater openness and transparency of operation and performance of the companies, reduce
govemment interference, and start the process of de-politicizing tariffs. The process of tariff
- 14 -



setting has been transparently laid out by the commission and this is a significant positive step. The
commnission has established its credibility in at:empting to address some fundamental issues in
tariff rationalization, reduction of cross subsidy across consumer categories and balancing the
interest of consumers and the utilities in the process. But again, in the absence of implementation
of further reform steps and/or reversal of a key policy decision (to privatize distribution), there
would be significant risks that the Regulatory Commission would not be in a position to operate as
expected. Regulating only state-owned companies along the principles laid down in the Haryana
Electricity Reform Act, would become rapidly impossible in a context where political and
administrative interferences have been continuouLsly prevailing. There would be considerable risk
of conflicts between the state administration, the state-owned utilities on one hand and the
Regulatory Commission on the other, would lead to deadlock situations; another risk would be the
capture of the regulator by the Government. In all cases, the new regulatory regime established by
Haryana, would not achieve the objectives for wlhich it had been set up.
C.     In summary, more actions would be needed to achieve the full goal of the reform: and among them,
improved govemance of the sector and of the utilities, full autonomy and commercialization of the
utilities, privatization of distribution, tariff adjustments, continuation of financial restructuring,
further electricity market reform and increased competition. If these steps were not to be taken and
Haryana were not to continue the reform process, then only very little progress would have been
achieved; there would be a high risk of deterioration of the prevailing conditions. In the absence of
credible measures to improve the financial viability of the sector, the power shortages in the state
would increase, and the supply conditions would decline. Haryana then would end up with a legal,
structural, regulatory and institutional framework which would not generate all its promises
because further essential steps would not have been taken.
6.1.2. The sustainability of the achievements generated or expected to be generated by the project on the
technical side is also somehow unlikely. The investments made so far represent only a small share of the
utilities' physical assets; the sustainability of their benefits hinges on adequate resources for regular
maintenance and adoption of proper operational practices, which should not be difficult to achieve. Should
Haryana continue the implementation of its reform program, then there is no doubt that the benefits of the
investments already made would be sustained and enhanced. On the other hand, if Haryana were to stop
the reform process and let the utilities' financial condition further decline, this situation would have an
impact on the operation and maintenance of the existing network and could affect the investments funded
under the project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
At the time of loan closure at December 31, 2000, about 90% of the project activities were completed and
the balance is now expected to be completed by end June 2001 (para 4.2.2.3). The completed works, after
performing the necessary tests, were integrated with the system and their operation and maintenance has
posed no problem. The utilities' staff is familiar with the project's transmission, sub-transmission and
distribution system, and therefore no special training is needed for their maintenance. Procurement of
essential spare-parts and spare goods, under the project, will facilitate future maintenance in the foreseeable
future. For smooth transition of the entire project activities to regular operation, the implementing agencies
(GoH, HVPN and the distribution companies), have agreed on the following:
* they would continue to maintain the construction posts, specially created for the project activities, until
all activities are completed;
- 15-



* they would provide finances to procure all goods and services needed for project completion including
items to be financed by the Bank before loan closure (e.g. procurement of utility meters ). HVPN has
indicated that they have already spent about $6.9 million of their own resources to cover expenditures,
which would have been eligible for reimbursement by the Bank if the loan was still effective;
*   they would construct all project works as originally planned to derive full benefits ( e.g. the project
33/11 kv substations should have similar transformers running in parallel; see para 4.2.2.2 of the ICR);
and
*   they would maintain close monitoring of the project; continue to provide the Bank with quarterly
progress reports; and would keep the Bank informed of any serious problems in completing all the
activities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
7.1.1. Preparation.  This project was the first APL developed as a response to India's demand for a
programmatic lending approach, when it was considered necessary to provide early support and
conmmitment to states engaging into complex and politically difficult power sector reforms. In 1999,
following an in-depth review, QAG had rated the quality-at-entry of this project as highly satisfactory and
there is no reason as of today to disagree with this rating. The Bank provided considerable assistance to
Haryana through consultants (funded largely by PHRD Trust Funds) and staff to design and start the
implementation of the reform program and the physical component of the project. The Bank team
extensively used the results and lessons leamed from the Orissa experience and best intemational practices
were also made available to Haryana through high-level, internationally reputed consultants.
7.1.2. Evaluation. The project was processed only after the Government of Haryana had confirmed its
commitment to reform by adopting, in spite of widespread agitation by political opposition, a
comprehensive reform policy and legislation. The considerable risks associated with this reform were also
properly assessed: the overall design of the lending approach (APL), of the milestones for processing the
first and subsequent loans, and of the first loan itself was done to mitigate the political risks. On the
technical side, the limited capability of the implementing agencies (HSEB and its successor entities) to
implement efficiently the investment program was also recognized and reflected into the design of the
project (small size of the project, technical assistance to strengthen capabilities). Given the nature of the
project, consistency with the Bank's safeguards did not raise any major problems.
7.1.3  Social Development Aspects. Prior to the loan approval, the Bank had assisted the Government of
Haryana (GOH) in adopting a set of "Social Policy and Procedures" (SPP) to address the adverse impacts
associated with land acquisition and loss of other assets resulting from the physical investments. The
policy provides for assistance not only to the affected land owners but also to the affected tenants (share
croppers, lease holders, encroachers, squatters, etc..). There are specific provisions for assisting the
affected persons in the event of loss of livelihood, loss during the transition period, loss of access to the
common priorities, etc. which were hitherto not protected under the local laws. Thus, the policy provisions
were consistent with the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement. The Bank also
assisted the Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB) in preparing a Resettlement Action Plan prior to the
loan approval to propose mitigation measures for the adverse impacts. The policy enabled HSEB to
explore all possible options and thus avoided acquisition of any private properties. Further suitable
- 16 -



measures were proposed to the persons who suffered loss of standing crops and trees associated with the
construction of transmission lines.
7.1.4. Environmental Aspects. Prior to loan approval ihe Bank had assisted Haryana in undertaking an
Environmental Analysis for transmission projects. This entailed the preparation of a framework for
environmental management, laying down its basic principles, as well as activities proposed to enhance the
same in the future. As per the Bank's OD 4.01 at the time of preparation, the project had been rated as an
Environmental Category B. Environmental Analyses for a sample of transmissions lines and substations
proposed to be funded by the project was also carried out by Haryana, which was reviewed by the Bank. It
was concluded that if the safeguards as laid out in the documents prepared, were adequately adhered to,
there would be no significant adverse impact of transmission lines and sub-stations.
7.1.5. On the environmental aspects of generation, the Bank had engaged in a dialogue with Haryana,
who at that time had initiated the rehabilitation of its main power plant with financing from KfW
(Germany). Further, it was agreed with Haryana that the environmental management capabilities of
HSEB's successors would be strengthened through technical assistance, and draft terms of reference had
been developed for this purpose. Specific to the issue of management of Poly-Chlorinated Biphenyl's
(PCB's), it was agreed to provide technical assistance using international consultants, to cover
identification of PCBs in electrical equipment, management and cleanup of transformer installations,
discarded equipment, and repair shops. As part of capacity building of the transmission company, it was
also proposed to explore the possibility of providing a planning model developed as part of an economic
and sector work (ESW) on "Environmental Issues in the Power Sector", which assesses the various
environmental implications of policy and expansion options.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1. The project has been closely supervised. QAG has also reviewed the supervision of this project
and rated it highly satisfactory. The location of most of the team members (including the task leader) in
India allowed a close interaction with the beneficiary entities, the donors and other parties (consultants, for
example) involved in he project implementation. In pardcular, a close dialogue could be entertained with
donors such as DFID, USAID and JBIC (ex-OECF): this contributed without any doubt to maintain the
momentum for reforms. Similarly, on the technical side, a close supervision by the project procurement
and technical specialists, contributed to reveal without delays shortcomings in the implementation and deal
with procurement issues. The preparation of APL 2 also started and mobilization of expertise through trust
funds contributed to maintaining the dynarnics between implementation and preparation of subsequent
phases.
7.2.2. Social Development Aspects. The Bank has closely supervised the implementation of RAPs. There
were no adverse impacts due to the construction of sub-stations. For the transmission lines, payment of
compensation for crop damages and loss of trees was required. 266 persons have suffered losses due to the
construction of transmission lines. The compensation for such losses is based on the rates declared by the
market committee and calculated on the basis of lype and yield of the crops. 95 percent of the
compensation amounts have been disbursed. .
7.2.3. Environmental Aspects. While there were no significant environmental issues anticipated during
irnplementation, the project could have done with better environmental supervision. Implementation of the
EMPs started late, and some activities that were identified to be undertaken during project implementation,
did not get started at all. These activities were envisaged in the form of one component of a technical
assistance program to build overall institutional capacity in HSEB's successor utilities, essentially HVPN
- 17 -



(see section 7.1.5). Due to delays and issues in procurement, HVPN did not appoint consultants to provide
the required support and therefore assist on environmental matters, in spite of repeated reminders of
supervision missions. The Bank was able to provide training on the planning model referred to in section
7.1.5, which HVPN found a useful exercise, providing them with a "system" that encouraged better
planning for implementation.
7.2.4. A Financial Management Specialist (FMS) was involved at the time of appraisal of this project,
and was associated with 2 supervision missions thereafter.
7.3 Overall Bank perJfrmance.
In summary, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The dialogue with Haryana started end of 1993. The performance of Haryana (government and utility) in
preparing the project has been uneven and was directly linked with the strength of the political support
given to the reform program:
a. 1993-1994: highly satisfactory performance. Haryana awarded consultancy contracts (under a project
preparation facility) at a pace which has rarely been seen in India; mobilized a high level team to
interact with the Bank; and expressed openness to engage in reforms. The dialogue stalled when
Haryana did not agree to implement a 50% tariff increase that Bank management requested as an
upfront action to lend.
b. 1995-1996: Haryana went through state elections, change in governments and was not in a position to
engage into a bold reform process. However the Government issued in 1996 a General Policy
Statement which laid down the grounds for reforms.
c. 1997-1998: again satisfactory performance. The newly elected Government, following a review of the
options available, decided to continue the reform program. Haryana provided a strong political support
and set up a highly performing reform team.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Similarly, the Government implementation performance has been uneven.
a. 1998-1999: in spite of an uncertain political climate, the Government took key policy decisions and
provided a strong and continuing support to the reforms. During this period, the main reform measures
(enactment of the Electricity Reform Act, establishment of the Regulatory Commission, successive
rounds of unbundling of the utility, starting of distribution privatization, preparation and
implementation of an emergency investment programme) were initiated. However, the tariff filing by
the utility to HERC was delayed resulting in deterioration in the financial condition and also there was
inordinate delay in signing amendments to legal agreements with the Bank, reflecting the unbundling of
the Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB) into two distinct entities (see section 8.3);
b. 2000-2001: the momentum for reform has been reduced. Privatization of distribution, a key aspect of
the reform progranm, has been put on hold. The political context (state elections), the climate created by
- 18 -



the delays in signing the amendments to the legal agreements and the subsequent suspension of
disbursements (see section 8.3), the absence of a clear political endorsement of the reform agenda
contributed to a slow-down in the implementation of the reform program. However the utilities, with
support from the government, launched several initiatives to improve the operational efficiency and
financial performance; these included: (i) a drive to control theft and pilferage of electricity (during
FY2001 about 50,000 theft cases were detected as against the annual average of about 16,000 in the
previous three years); (ii) metering at all voltage levels to measure the flow of energy and energy
accounting; (iii) collection drive to recover outstanding receivables (arrears of Rs 623 crore or
$132.55m were recovered over a period of 20 months to March 2001, and nearly half a nillion
consumers were disconnected). Efforts are also being made to improve customer service - for instance,
collection of bills through banks has been introduced at 55 branches of different banks throughout the
state. The sustainability of these efforts is however, not certain, and these efforts are likely to have
limited effect in the absence of more sustainable changes like privatization.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Beyond the State Govermnent, the implementing agencies included the Haryana utilities (HSEB and then its
successors, the transmission company - HVPN, and the distribution companies - UHBVN and DHBVN)
and the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission.
a. Haryana utilities. They had a double function: (i) implement the reform and restructuring measures;
and (ii) carry out the investment program. For the first function, their performance mirrored the overall
performance of the Haryana government and the evolution in the political endorsement given to the
reform program. For the second function, the overall utilities performance has been generally
satisfactory. Albeit procurement was generally slow and behind schedule; most of the works (including
the rehabilitation of the 11 kV feeders) have been completed (see annex 10). The compensation to the
persons affected by loss of standing crops and trees due to the execution of transmission investment
program has been paid on time, under generally satisfactory conditions.
b. Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC). The overall performance of HERC was
satisfactory. Although HERC took a rather long time to get proper staff and fully benefit from the
extensive technical assistance sponsored by DFID, the Comnission rapidly appeared as a powerful and
determined reform agent in Haryana. The Commission performed its mandate as stipulated in the
Haryana Electricity Reform Act while becoming increasingly aware of the need to incorporate into its
proceedings the features, constraints and requirements of a reforming sector in transition. The
Commnission initiated public hearings procedures and the first tariff order issued by the Commission
end 2000 is exemplary, not only for its substance but also in terms of process. In particular, the
Regulatory Commission took the decision to adjust agricultural tariff, a step which was considered by
many observers, as "politically" impossible.
7.6.2. Financial Management aspects
7.6.2.1. A separate team for implementing the project was created within HSEB which included a Chief
Accounts Officer and 2 accountants. Although separate books were not maintained for the project, the
expenditure in the books of the implementing agencies was captured by way of separate account codes and
the accounting was carried out by the Accounts & Audit Wing of the Implementing agency on a manual
basis. Although the special account audit reports from GOI were received in time, the audit reports for the
project/ SOE were generally received after the due date and were unqualified. The entity audit report for
the FY 1999 and FY 2000 of the implementing agencies have not been received by the Bank till date as
- 19 -



required under the financial covenants since HSEB was unbundled in August 1998 (into HPGC and
HVPN) and June 1999 (when the distribution business was unbundled out of HVPN into two distribution
companies), because of which the accounts compilation and audit processes were delayed. The project is in
the process of submitting the entity audit reports for FY 1999 and 2000, expected by June 30, 2001.
7.6.2.2. The entity audit report for 1997-98 for HSEB contained auditor's observations for not adhering to
the provisions of the Electricity Supply Act, 1948 like short provision of power purchased, non-provision
of surcharge and interest (Rs 516 mn or $10.98m), capitalisation of interest, etc... The provision of these
items in the profit and loss account would have impacted the profit /loss for the year by Rs 10942 million
($232.81m) adversely. Most of these items were restructured/ waived as a part of the balance sheet
restructuring carried out during the first unbundling in August 1998. No serious accountability problems
were noted.
7.6.2.3. The disbursements of the project in the initial period from the date of effectiveness (March, 1998)
to December 1998 were made largely by way of direct payments to the suppliers and the initial deposit to
the Special Account (US$ 4 million) was made only in August 1999 after 17 months of effectiveness. This
was basically due to the fact that: (i) implementing agencies wanted to avoid delays in receipt of funds
through the state government; and (ii) implementing agencies wanted to effect small direct payments to
suppliers.
7.6.2.4. Although HSEB was split in August 1998, the legal agreements with the new entities were signed
as late as August 2000 and as a result the disbursements under the project were suspended for the period
from  December, 1999 to August, 2000.  During the period (August 1998-December 1999), the
disbursements made to the restructured entities, was also at a risk of being classified as ineligible
disbursements, which however was regularized by the legal agreements signed in August 2000 (see section
8.3).
7.6.2.5. The Haryana Government in FY 2000 adjusted an amount of Rs 127 crore (US$ 28 million) from
the subsidy payable to HVPNL for the year by exercising a "prepayment" of the subsidiary loan of
Haryana Government to HVPNL under the Bank project. This measure, which was flagged by supervision
missions as contrary to the agreements with the Bank, has not been corrected by Haryana. This had an
adverse effect on the liquidity of HVPNL's resources, since, the "adjusted" subsidy was not paid in cash.
7.6.2.6. Financial Covenants. The financial covenants as stipulated under the amended Assumption and
Project Agreement in respect of profitability, DSCR, receivables, payables were largely not met, primarily
due to the continuing poor financial condition of the sector (refer Section 4.4). The following table
summarizes the performance on financial covenants.
FY 1999             FY 2000       FY 2001 to Dec 2000
Profitability Covenant  Cover all costs    10% Return on net   Return prescribed by
worth          Regulator or per
SUDDly Act, 1948
Compliance
HPGC                   Data not available
HVPN                 Loss of Rs. 21.5 crore      -ve            2% on Net worth
(after subsidy)
UHBVN              }included in HVPN             -ve                 -ve
- 20 -



DHBVN                                               -ve                  -ve
DSCR
Covenant                                            1.1                  1.3
Compliance
HPGC                    Data not available
HVPN                          0.83                  0.9                  0.9
UHBVN               }included in HVPN               -ve            Data not available
DHBVN               }                               -ye            Data not available
Net Receivables
Covenant                    3 months             3 months             3 months
Compliance
HPGC                    Data not available
HVPN                      2.97 months            2.5 months          6.25 months
UHBVN               }included in HVPN            4 months            4.5 months
DHBVN               }                           4.2 months           5.5 months
Payables
Covenant                    2 months             2 months             2 months
Compliance
HPGC                    Data not available
HVPN                        6 months             4.4 months          6.44 months
(before bond issue of
Rs. 655 crore)
UHIBVN              }included in HVPN           2.33 months          5.9 months
DHBVN               }                            5.7 months           9.3 months
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
All in all, the overall Borrowe performance can be rated as unsatisfactory albeit with the qualifications
mentioned above. Although sor ie basic foundations for re forming the power sector have been set up and
most of the investment measur s implemented, considera le challenges remain to be addressed to restore
the creditworthiness of the utili es, accelerate the operatioi al and commercial improvements of the sector,
let the utilities operate autonom usly, along commercial pn nciples, and privatize distribution.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons learned focus arour d two aspects: (i) the utililz tion of the APL instrument; and (ii) the design
and implementation of complex state power sector reforms n India.
8.1.   Utilization of the APL nstrument.
8.1.1. The APL proves to b  a very powerful lendin  instrument for dealing with complex reform
program with long gestation an execution periods, within a highly sensitive and volatile environment. In
this specific case, political fact rs, which had been clearlJ flagged in the PAD risk analysis, affected the
implementation of the project.  s it turned out, time was ssential to allow deeper assessment by the state
political leadership of the polic options and stakes, contim e dialogue with the Bank and other partners and
take decision on the continuatio 1 of the program. The esse ntial element is that such a pause/reversal in the
- 21 -



implementation is factored in the lending approach and therefore does not lead either to: (i) a situation of
conflict and ultimately to the end of a dialogue and partnership, through application of remedies; or (ii) a
scaling down of the objectives and therefore less relevance to the project. Milestones resulting from a
program of measures set by the client are much more efficient to entertain a policy dialogue than
conditionalities. It is also important that the elements of flexibility introduced by the APL are not perceived
by the clients as a relaxation of the terms of the policy measures upon which the Bank programmatic
support has been premised.
8.1.2. A careful approach is needed to deal with covenants and milestones, and generally, to simplify the
design of the support. With hindsight, it is seems clear that the first Haryana APL was "overloaded", with
several ambitious objectives; and, most importantly, that some (essentially process-related) covenants were
linked to milestones for the subsequent operation. For example, the initiation of the privatization of
distribution was a covenant in APL1 while the selection of a private partner was a milestone for the
APL2. This linkage is not consistent with the basic principles underlying the APL concept, and therefore,
we should resist the temptation to reflect in the covenants-milestones systems, the elements of the initial
program implementation plan. These elements may vary overtime, in particular, the delivery times: that
should impact the processing of subsequent APLs but not the assessment of the operation under execution.
This should not prevent the borrower/implementing agencies and the Bank to use ambitious targets to
accelerate the implementation of the reforms, but both the client and the Bank should make a clear
distinction between the means used to manage the reform process and the legal agreements and covenants
upon which formal assessement of progress and outcome achievement would be made during supervision.
This is particularly true when dealing with complex policy matters such as privatization of distribution.
8.1.3. Financial covenants needs to be addressed with a particular care, and certainly be given less
prominence than it was in this Haryana APL. The financial crisis of the power sector is so deep and the
reforms initiated by Haryana so comprehensive (and disruptive) that it would be difficult (if not impossible)
to capture, over the initial two or three years of a reform program, and through standard financial
covenants (profitability and financial performance of the utilities) any meaningful improvements. This is
particlarly true when using the APL instrument, since the existence of triggers for a subsequent APL can
provide benchmarks and leverage which could be more thoroughly assessed and be more effective means in
the dialogue between the Bank and the clients than covenants. Relying on qualitative judgments -for
example on the extent and quality of efforts developed to solve the financial issues in a sustainable way - or
specific performance indicators (for example in distribution business) may be at least as important as
relying on overall quantitative parameters subject to wide variations and uncertainties.
8.1.4. The APL is also an excellent instrument to reflect, in the subsequent operations, the lessons learned
during the project implementation, in similar projects elsewhere, through intemational experiences and also
to incorporate changes in the prevailing environment, including in the Bank. Compared to a traditional
investment loan, additional flexibility is not limited to the timing for processing loans (when triggers and
milestones are met). There is also flexibility in designing the next phases of the reform program and the
Bank's support. For example:
a.     Lessons learned through the previous A-PL. A considerable amount of experience has been
gained on managing a reform process, understanding incentives of various stakeholders, working
with consultants, dealing with regulatory matters, technical standards, engineering and
procurement.
b.     Changes in external conditions. This may relate to the Bank group (for example, utilization of
new instruments to complement the APL) or to the business environment (reduced appetite of
- 22 -



private international investors for India).
c.     Lessons learned elsewhere. Important lessons have been learned in other Indian states: for
example, on the need for reducing the regulatory risks, dealing with rural areas, making
distribution business more commercially attractive to private investors.
d.     Incorporating findings of sector work While Hlaryana APLI was implemented, the Bank and
the states of Haryana and Andra Pradesha engaged jointly a comprehensive sector work on the
"Supply of Power to Agriculture in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh". This sector work provided an
important analytical and information basis for decisions that Haryana had to take in 2000 about
loss restatement and agricultural tariffs . In addition, the conclusions of this sector work have
large implications on the design of investment and reform measures to deal with rural electricity
issues, which could be incorporated into the definition of the subsequent APL operations.
8.2.   Design and implementation of a reform  program.  Agriculture plays a significant role in
Haryana which was a main actor in the India "green revolution": about one third of the power supplied in
the state is for irrigation purposes, and there is a strong political dimension to the supply of power to
agriculture. In that sense, Haryana may be a good representative of the Indian states, as far state power
sector reforms are concerned; and, although Haryana has not gone through a full reform process, some
lessons can already be drawn;
a.     Political support for the reforns, ownership, and reformn "champions" are indispensable ingredients
to start and sustain a reform process. These ingredients may vary overtime, as this was the case in
Haryana. It would not serve any practical purpose to take "shortcuts"; the time dimension needs to
be recognized to ensure the presence of these ingredients (which, fortunately, the APL approach
permits).
b.     The dynamics of reforms is essential. The overall political and administrative set up can change
rapidly; therefore reforn agents should seize any opportunities to promote the reform agenda and
focus on structural and systemic measures, with a view to create as much irreversibility as
possible. Managing the transition is a critical element of the reform agenda and ensuring that
various stakeholders, including the Regulatory Commission, end-users, utilities management, state
officials, are associated with the preparation of a transition plan should be a high priority task, at
least as important than the definition of the target market structures. One of the challenges that
needs to be addressed in the design of this transtion plan is the recognition and incorporation of
stakeholders' incentives.
c.     Communication campaigns, demonstration effects (within and outside the state), detennination to
face opposition and build a constituency for change, but also education about reforms are essential.
Misinforrmation is often proliferated by vested interests; educating (candidly) about reformns, and
dispelling apprehension is a major task For example the impact of electricity tariffs on farming
costs now and in a hypothetical future of improved service and higher charges has never been
studied in detail. The sector work conducted on the "Supply of Power to Agriculture" sought to fill
that void. Based on well designed studies of miany aspects of farm operations in the states of
Haryana and Andhra Pradesh, it found that providing highly subsidized but poor quality power to
agriculture imposed a very high impediment to agricultural growth and income; power subsidies
benefited proportionally much more large farmers compared to small farmers and also thieves of
power; the present pricing regime based on a -lat rate tariff structure penalized small farmers
- 23 -



compared to large farmers. These are powerful messages to communicate. At the same time,
managing expectations and resisting un-realistic promises and commitments, is also essential.
d.     Mid-level management can (and should) play an important role for reforms. High-level officials
can guide the reform agenda; but the amount of technical, financial, administrative work is
considerable; and it is also essential that, should a reform "champion" be transferred, the
momentum for reforms as well as the institutional memory remain. Consultants will not be able to
substitute for the utilities staff. The establishment of working groups, with young and full-time
staff, should be one of the early steps to take by the implementing agencies. Also important is to
avoid mixing investment, procurement and reform aspects into the same structure.
e.     These reforms are complex and require technical assistance, a costly process. These costs can be
reduced (and the overall efficiency of the reform agenda can be increased) if the clients were to
draw lessons from elsewhere, reach their own conclusions about the need for reforms, speed up
their own decisionmaking process, and also improve their capabilities to manage consultants. To
achieve this, the clients may need to get high-level, catalytic advice: Bank staff can contribute to
providing this advice (which requires a considerable involvement, well beyond what is needed to
supervise a "standard" investment operation); but this will not be sufficient and the implementing
agencies should hire high-caliber (preferrably individual) consultants to help them sort out policy
options, advise on strategic approaches, and assist in managing "implementation" consultants.
f      Bank sector work in "real time" may prove extremely helpful to support reforms. The results of
the study on the "Supply of Power to Agriculture", made continuously available to the
implementing agencies, provided a good basis to better assess system losses, understand the impact
of agricultural tariff increases, and the benefits of improvement in the quality of electricity services
to farmers, key considerations for the decisions taken by HERC, GOH and the utilities regarding
the re-statement of losses, and the first tariff application and order.
g.     The role of the Regulatory Commission during the transition phase is critical. Not only the
Regulatory Commission will have to set the tone in terms of information and other regulatory
requirements vis-a-vis the regulated entities, but will establish (or not) the credibility of the new
new regulatory regime, and, ultimately, of the reform agenda. A close attention from HERC in
what was required from a regulator to facilitate the implementation of the reform program and its
active dialogue with the Government on policy matters contributed to Haryana's achievements.
h.     Revenue Enhancement, Theft of Power and Governance. During the transition period, several
measures can be taken to contain the financial hemorrhage. These steps are commendable since
they would reduce the financial requirements of the sector and instill more commercial practices. It
is interesting to note that these initiatives may often be actively pursued with the purpose to
demonstrate that state-owned distribution companies can reduce losses, contain theft and do
certainly as well as may be expected from private companies; strong campaigns, mobilizing the
utilities management, the govemment, the administration, law enforcement bodies lead to
spectacular results; however, there is a risk that these exceptional efforts cannot be sustained for a
long time, and, therefore, they would not be a subsitute for privatization of distribution.
i.    In any case, the design of an investment operation (as was the case for this APL) could focus more
on addressing financial matters; for example, by supporting more extensively metering of industrial
and commercial consumers, and other efforts to enhance revenues, contain theft of power and
improve govemance as mentioned above.
- 24 -



The development of the very basic infrastructure (for example in terms of metering, commercial
arrangements among the state-owned utilities, delivery of subsidies, intemal management
information systems, billing, collection, accounting, etc...) is a laborious process, not yet achieved
in Haryana, more than three years after the beginning of the reform process and in spite of the
considerable amount of technical assistance supported by DFID. This is due to the deeply rooted
adrministrative and technical culture of the state electricity board which had prevailed for decades.
It would be most unlikely that such a culture would change suddenly to evolve towards more
commercial behaviors and attitudes; this means that the development of more elaborate power
market mechanisms would require a long gestation period and cannot be considered as a realistic
option during the initial years of the reform program. Other considerations such as the existing
power demand-supply gap and the lack of creditworthiness of the utilities, would also limit the
options to introduce more competitive forms of market structures, or other more sophisticated
changes in the industry market; this points to the need to "keep it simple at the beginning" and
think about realistic transition plans, for example, from a single-buyer model to more efficient
models.
k.     The unbundling of the vertically SEB into a final configuration in a single shot (i.e. into generation,
transmission and distribution companies) is a better approach, and minimizes risks, uncertainty,
and adrninistrative issues. The transition period between corporatization and privatization of the
distribution companies needs also to be as short as possible. This is critical, as is shown by the
mounting losses of distribution companies. If the period is long, first, the losses go up, and second,
there are that many more chances of mid-streamn change of mind or loosening of commitment. In
tlie Indian context, much has been learned about corporatization and unbundling. and therefore
several steps could be pursued in parallel at a much faster pace (whiclh was, for examiiple. the case
for Rajasthani).
8.3.   Others: legal, administrative and communication matters.  One issue which affected the
implementation of the project was the delays in signing amendments to the legal agreements to reflect the
fact that one implementing agency, the Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB), was un-bundled into two
distinct entities. Such a change was anticipated during loan negotiations and the scope and format of the
amendments were agreed during negotiations and reflected into the minutes. The Govenmment of India (Gol)
as borrower, and the State of Haryana and the utilities, as implementing agencies, were to sign these
amendments so that they could become effective at the unbundling of HSEB. In spite of repeated efforts by
the project team, the amendments were not signed for more than 20 months after the un-bundling, while
disbursements continued: disbursements were suspended in December 1999 and resumed only in July 2000
after the amendments were signed and could be made effective.
8.3.1. During the first phase of the project execution (January 1998 to August 1999), signing of the
agreements was delayed only by minor technical considerations raised mainly by Gol. None of the parties
had any doubt that the agreements would be signed; both the project team and the client focused on urgent,
substantive matters, paid limited attention to administrative aspects and under-estimated the need to rapidly
regularize the situation. The project team did not report clearly to, and did not enlist the support of
management to solve the issue: with hindsight, there is no doubt that such an approach would have
accelerated the signing of the amendment and avoided the subsequent crisis. A key lesson leamed is to not
under-estimate the legal and administrative issues that may arise as a consequence of institutional changes
within the borrower's structure; and to the extent feasible., lend only when these changes have taken place.
Another key lesson is the need is to pay a proper attention to legal covenants and administrative matters,
and report promptly to management on these issues.
- 25 -



8.3.2. Political dimension of simple administrative facts. During the second phase of the project
execution (from September 1999 onwards), a key reason for the delays in the signing of the amendments
was that the new government in Haryana was deliberating about the rationale of the reform and need for
Bank support in implementing this reform, and therefore did not want to sign legal documents, which could
have been interpreted as a continuation of the policy pursued by the previous government. During this
period Haryana had also to go for state elections. The agreements were signed in April 2000 by Haryana,
after the state elections took place, and the amendments were made effective in July 2000 when all
effectiveness conditions were met (including compliance with covenants; and, for the financial covenants
which were not complied with, a fonnal waiver was granted by management). The lesson leamed: do not
under-estimate the political significance of apparently trivial facts, particularly in a rapidly evolving
political context.
8.4.   The usefulness of an ICR for an APL. The preparation of an ICR for one of the series of
proposed operation in an APL is certainly a welcome step which can facilitate the preparation of the
subsequent operation and the incorporation of the lessons learned; this would be particularly true, when like
in the present situation, the preparation of the subsequent APL is delayed because of problems faced during
the implementation of the project under review, and would take place only after the closing of the previous
operation. However, if an APL were to be processed when the previous one is still under execution, and
therefore the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of this APL where to be prepared before the completion
of the previous APL, the preparation of the ICR of the ongoing operation could be streamlined and be part
of the preparation of the PAD of the subsequent one.
8.5.   The format of the ICR should be revisited to reflect the programmatic aspect of the APL. In this
context, it would be advisable to:
*   Introduce sections dealing with: (i) the relevance, assessment and achievement of the program's
objectives and outcomes (as opposed to the project's objectives and outcomes); (ii) the revisions that the
lessons learned during the APL operation under review (as well as the currently prevailing context)
would bring for the design and implementation of the subsequent operation (s);
   Shorten the sections dealing specifically with the project's objective and outcomes; and
*   Consider the ICR - if and when available before the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of the
subsequent operation- as part of the documentation that is required for processing the subsequent
operation, and adapt consequently the format of the PAD for the subsequent operations. This approach
would minimize duplication of efforts.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Government of India
We broadly agree with the analysis of the Bank as regards the achievement of development and
implementation objectives of the programme. Haryana project did provide a lot of valuable experience. The
project did have significant achievements, but it would have been better if the State Government of
Haryana would have agreed to move over to Phase H of the project immediately upon completion of Phase
- 26 -



I. Haryana did not witness significant reduction in T&D losses during the project period. Neither was the
financial position of the State improved notably. The investrnent support of Bank, on its own, had limited
scope. More comprehensive treatment of all factors contributing to the ills of the sector and use of all
possible instruments and other public/private sector partners would have to be brought in to really reform
power utilities in any State and achieve a tum-around.
Comments from the Government of Haryana
[Prepared in the light of para-3 and para-1 1 of the World Bank operational Manual Operational Policies -
Implementation Completion Reporting].
1.    The Haryana Power Sector Restructuring Project, which grew out of Haryana's conviction to make
its power sector efficient and financially sustainable, has displayed all round sustainable efficiencies and
achieved high levels of consumer satisfaction. Haryana's association with the World Bank in evolving the
Project under APL-1 and thereafter in implementing it, reflected its commitment to quickly improve the
sector's functioning and to discover by pursuing various alternatives, a reform structure that was best
suited to the State's specific needs and characteristics.
2.    Haryana's ability to take and implement hard decisions in the cause of reforms made it a pioneer in
power reforms in India. While being tough, Haryana's approach has been marked by healthy pragmatism
and sensitivity to the democratic process, which is the life breath of the system of governance in the State.
The project implementation period saw a successive change of governments at the State level and elections
at national, state and local bodies levels. The issue of reform in the power sector and its significance went
through public consultation during this time and Government commitment to reforrm was validated and
re-affirmed.
3.    In this context, the World Bank's concept and application of the Adaptable Programme Lending
(APL) approach deserves specific attention, especially since it was introduced for the first time in the
world, in Haryana. The operational part of APL lies in the expression "Adaptable". It signifies flexibility
and the ability to adjust to changing circumstances. On part of Haryana, it is understood that APL
comprises a lending strategy, which responds to unanticipated changes in external circumstances or
endogenous variables in the Project system. It does thus by adjusting the pace, with emphasis on
evaluation of the project objectives' boundaries so that the momentum and direction acquired by the project
is maintained or, if required, modified. As long as the project displays a basic robustness and integrity,
reflected in its overall achievements and capability, as in Haryana's case, the APL approach is expected to
ensure that the project is not subjected to any penal administrative or financial stress.
4.    The action of the World Bank in: (a) stopping reimbursements of expenditures incurred by
Haryana Utilities towards achieving targets of the Project for nine months; and (b) not allowing
reimbursement of expenditures on Project material ordered before 31-12-2000, but received after that date,
did not appear consistent with the understanding of Adaptable Programme Lending approach as described
above. During the period of stoppage of the reimbursement, which occurred at a time when the
Govermment was in the process of consultation and obtaining validation for the power reforms and a major
democratic transition was being experienced by Haryana through elections, the power utilities had to spend
about Rs. 350 million ($7.44 million) from their own scarce resources on works covered under the APL
Project. Similarly about US$ 7 million have remained unutilized, which have now to be spent by the power
utilities from their own funds on account of action described in (b) above. The project implementation was
to this extent subjected to avoidable stress and trauma. A project being implemented under APL approach
- 27 -



and possessing the positive features described above must necessarily benefit from the basic rationale and
spirit of "Adaptability".
5.     Another design aspect of the adaptable or flexible approach is the capacity of the World Bank to
respond to the changing nature of financial requirements of the project under APL. In the Haryana APL-1,
a loan of only US$ 60 million was settled/earmnarked. This sum was primarily for capital works identified
under an Emergency Action Plan covering identified critical transmission and distribution works. The
comprehensive reform process, with the emergence of new organizations, greater transparency in financial
working, restatement of losses, and revisiting of various assumptions including assumptions about expected
financial flows which formed the basis of initial Financial Restructuring Plan (FRP), very soon and
conclusively established the need for adequate working capital as a part of the project loan. If cash flow
support is made an integral part of project assistance, the Reform Project can get over the financial
problems, which are inevitable during the crucial transition period; if these cash problems are not
addressed, they can get compounded. In the case of the Haryana Power Utilities, the working capital
shortage was met by raising additional funds from financial institutions and the bond markets. This enabled
them to maintain and improve their operations at the desired levels and to fulfill the commitment of
providing adequate power supply to the people of Haryana. Working capital infused into the project as a
part of APL lending would strengthen the project considerably. It was increasingly felt that working
capital should be an integral part of funding power sector projects of the World Bank. This would ensure
their viability. Without a working capital component, a severe imbalance in project implementation is
likely to be experienced. In the original loan plan, the adaptable approach should have enabled the
introduction of working capital through an appropriate mechanism. A reforn programme of this scale
cannot be sustained with a capital works programme alone.
6.     While the various institutional, legal and financial changes brought about in project implementation
would be mentioned elsewhere in this ICR, it is a matter of considerable satisfaction that these changes
were brought about by Haryana in a very smooth and effective manner. Passage of the Reforms Act,
setting up of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC), implementation of the first and
second transfer schemes involving reallocation of a vast number of staff, division of assets, setting up and
making operational new and distinct management structures in the new power entities, working out and
obtaining from HERC significant increases in tariff including agricultural tariff, applying a fuel surcharge
adjustment (FSA) to the agriculture sector for the first time, introduction of energy audit on an extensive
scale, setting up of profit centers at divisional levels on a commercial basis, reduction in staff strength,
out-sourcing of certain services and functions, and implementation of a multi pronged recovery strategy
were achieved successfully with ease and professional competence. The experience in these areas in some
other states, it is understood has not been satisfactory.
7.     The reform process in general and the restructuring project, in particular, benefited from the
consultancy funded by DFID. The areas in which the power utilities have gained particularly include: (i)
methodology of preparation of ARRs; (ii) preparation of FSA; (iii) physical asset register preparation; (iv)
advice on some implementation aspects of the second transfer scheme; (v) preparation of on-line billing
project; and (vi) organization of workshops connected with financial modelling, etc... While some
difficulties in placement of utilities' staff in adequate numbers with consultants for transfer of skills was
faced, on the whole the utilities have succeeded in building a core tearn of staff that is capable of handling
regulatory works independently. The consultants have assisted the power utilities to file two tariff
applications and three ARRs before the Regulatory Commission. DFID has agreed to support the
consultancy till October 2001. Overall association with DFID has been very satisfactory.
8.    Initiation of privatization of distribution was one of the components of the APL-1 project as
- 28 -



originally conceived. The assumption behind this was that privatization, as conventionally understood
would improve distribution considerably and thereby turn around the power sector as a whole because
shortcomings in distribution are at the base of the sector's inefficiencies. The process was initiated in 1999
and a set of potential bidders was short-listed.  Subsequently owing to significant changes in the
assumptions underlying the FRP, which impacted the disinvestment process directly, an exercise to update
the FRP was conducted. Developments in privatization in other parts of the country led to a number of
alternative models of disinvestment to emerge for consideration. It has been considered prudent by the
Government of Haryana to arrive at a sustainable approach towards privatization in the power sector only
after an in-depth and broad based process of examination and consultation. There is no case for rushing
into privatization of power without adequate thought and preparation, especially when experiences of the
process outside of Haryana, as well as newer models and interpretations of privatization have now become
increasingly available. The matter is now under detailed consideration at the highest levels.
9.    The Haryana Power Sector has benefited from the loan assistance provided by World Bank,
although it has increasingly been felt that the amount of 1US$ 60 million for APL1 was very small, given
the vast and complex nature of the project. The 220 KV Palla Sub Station, 220 KV Palla-Palli-Samaypur
line, the Abdullahpur-Shahbad 220 KV transmission line, bifurcation of 11 KV feeders, the purchase of 14
power transformers to replace old defective ones, the purchase of electronic meters of high accuracy,
installation of interface meters between HVPN and the distribution companies have been works that have
added to the quality and reliability of power in several areas of the state. This has been bome out to a large
extent, by a study conducted by TARU consultants (engaged by DFID) whose preliminary results were
presented to the utilities recently. Technical standards and specifications laid down by World Bank have in
many cases been adopted by the power utilities. The turn-key approach for execution of complex projects
promoted by World Bank, has been adopted for similar works by the utilities. The Abdullahpur-Shahbad
220 KV transmission line tied up well with the critical Shahabad-Panchkula 220 KV line. Similarly, the
new meters are serving as an important component of the loss deduction measures being implemented.
Procurement and installation of distribution transformers in large numbers have contributed to improving
consumer services by reducing bum out rate. Thus the World Bank assisted capital expenditure
programme has integrated well with the comprehensive power reform programme being pursued by
Haryana.
10.   The Haryana power sector has taken full advantage of the synergies generated by the institutional
and technical changes brought about, by various initiatives constituting the State's reform programme.
During the severe drought years of 1999-2000 and 2000-2001, the power sector discharged its commitment
for the State's development of the economy by supplying increasing levels of power to the States (22%
more over 1998-99), especially to the agriculture sector (27% increase).   During this period the
commercial losses of the power utilities are estimated to have come down from over Rs. 600 crores ($
127.66 million) to a little over Rs. 200 crore ($ 42.55 million).
11.   A note on the composite achievements of the Haryana Power Sector in-the last about two years is
attached (as annex 11 of the ICR). It would give a good idea of the comprehensive scope and extent of the
reforms path being pursued by the State.
12.   During the process of implementation of APL- I, certain positive lessons were leamt which will
certainly be helpful in the coming years. Some of these relate to:
a)    Need for improving the design specifications of the equipment to be procured as well as
construction standards;
b)    Reduction in processing time of contracts;
- 29 -



c)     Harnessing the potential of private sector in implementation of works/ services;
d)     Need for building strong core project team;
e)     More professional approach in financial/ economic policies;
f)     Better MIS network and need for building strong data base;
g)    Improved communication facilities; and
h)    Improved and well planned public/ mass communication program.
We are sure that with the experience gained during the project, the power utilities would be able to
take up such development projects more objectively and efficiently. The project period brought about a sea
change in work culture and sense of dedication and achievement in the work force. We look forward for
continued support of the Bank in future to achieve the goals and targets fixed under the overall reform
agenda so as to make the State power sector a more vibrant and forward looking organization.
(b) Cofinanciers:
DFID Comments
1.    Commencing in June 1998, DFID undertook a substantial programme of technical assistance (TA)
in support of the power sector reform programme in Haryana, based on a grant allocation of 15m
(approx. $21.5m). This was intended to fund external consultants to provide capacity building for HERC,
institutional development for the utility companies, the preparation of the distribution companies for
privatisation and the process and transaction of privatisation itself. In the event, the privatisation process
did not proceed due to GoH political factors. The technical assistance progranmme was continued without
interruption through the period of political uncertainty. By the end of May 2001, there remained about
lm of uncommitted grant resources. These would not be sufficient to provide the expected full range of
external support necessary, had GoH decided to proceed with privatisation, although this could have been
deployed to quickly recommence such a process (e.g. the reissue of RFQs, preparation of the IM and
related work).
2.     DFID  took the conscious decision to continue the provision  of TA  to HERC  and
HVPN/distribution companies throughout the period of uncertainty in late 1999 and 2000, including the
period covered by the temporary suspension of WB disbursements. This was reduced to a relatively low
level of activity, focused on key regulatory and financial aspects. This level of engagement maintained
dialogue and retained sector reform  on GoH's issues agenda.  In fact the Corporatisation,
Commercialisation and Distribution Privatisations (CCDP) consultants (Arthur Andersen - AA) facilitated
and informed an intense debate in the GoH in late 2000 and the first quarter of 2001, on the options and
implications of reform action for the sector. This built up a strong constituency for privatisation at the
highest levels of the GoH administration, with the exception of a very few, but crucial, dissenters.
3.     As regards the APL process, the investment made under APLI does seem to have been effective in
demonstrating technical performance improvements. The careful selection of investment sub-projects, to
show maximum impact benefits, is important to maintaining the incentive effect of future tranches (APL2
and beyond). GoH recognises the need for further system improvement investments. The conditionalities
for proceeding from APL1 to APL 2 looks too large a step, especially the need have "selected a strategic
joint venture private investor....." and ".... that the sale of equity to this private investor can reasonably take
place within six months...". This is a very large leap to qualify for the next tranche. Perhaps an
intermediate step could have been designed at the outset, to enable the engagement and process to continue.
In a sense, the APL sequence sets an incentive trail, leading the state government down a series of actions
towards an ultimate goal. The sequence in which action is taken is not always important, but these do need
- 30 -



to be successfully implemented. Individual steps must involve risks that are politically acceptable.
4.     The structure of the APL conditions for Haryana, did not promote early action on all important
issues, particularly firm action on tariffs and on cross subsidies between customer classes. This, combined
with a multi-year approach to tariff reviews, would be imnportant to the prospects of privatisation. For
example, action on agricultural tariffs in not identified until APL4 and APL5. This looks far too late and
could have been part of an intermediate stage after APL1. APL conditions need not be sequential. Perhaps
a combination of actions, weighted for impact and importance, could be used to trigger stage lending
approval.
5.     An issue surprisingly raised by senior GoH officials in the May 2001 visit was the on lending of
the APL to newly privatised distribution companies. The rmechanism for possible on lending was not clear.
Would the loan be welcome or even acceptable to new investors? What would be the likely arrangements
for on lending agreements and guarantees? Would IFC have a role? If the incentive effect of the APL is to
be maintained, these questions need to be clearly addressed at an early stage. Again, this hints at the
possible need for an intermediate stage in respect of the conditions for moving from APL1 to APL2 (i.e.
before private investors become involved).
6.     As regards the TA provided to HERC, this was ralher too focused on tariff issues and should have
addressed a broader range of issues, including rural electrijfication, customer service and supply quality. A
stronger communications effort to promote HERC's role and presence might also have been useful, bearing
in mind the low level of public awareness of HERC' s existence. HERC has built up a considerable
analytical capacity. This needs to be sustained when Comrnissioners change or capacity will be eroded.
7.     Overall the TA support has been instrumental in achieving sector restructuring and a new
understanding of commercial imperatives. The concem now is that unless GoH moves forward in the next
year or so with privatisation, the motivation for change and improvement will be lost. The sector is
continuing to lose money at an increasing rate, despite real efforts at intemal performance improvements.
The culture of corrupt practices (e.g. payments made by customers not reaching the companies and other "
informal" arrangements for obtaining services) at field level continues and is unlikely to change while the
business is run as a public enterprise.
USAID Comments
1.     Under USAID's Energy Management Consultation and Training (EMCAT) project, USAID
contractor Intemational Resources Group (IRG) provided Technical Assistance and training support for
introduction of DSM activities in Harayana State Electricity Board (HSEB). Support under this activity
was provided to help HSEB in securing World Bank loan for undertaking DSM activities. The support
included setting up of a DSM cell in HSEB, identification of potential DSM projects, and preparing
feasibility and detailed project reports for identified projecis
2.     During the initial phase of the study, five different areas for application of DSM measure were
identified. These were: i) Reduction in T&D Losses; ii) Savings in the consumption of electricity in
agricultural pumps; iii) Savings in the consumption of electricity in lift irrigation pumps in the Narnaul
District; iv) Savings in the consumption of electricity in municipal pumping systems of Faridabad
Municipal Corporation; and v) Savings in the consumption of electricity in the industrial sector. It was
expected that these projects will directly result in significant reduction in transmission and distribution
losses, improved voltage profile and increased availability of power for sale to other sectors viz. industrial,
commercial etc.
- 31 -



3.     From the aforementioned five areas, the first two areas were selected by IRG and were merged for
the ease of conducting a detailed study on "Reduction in losses by upgrading of Agriculture Distribution
Network". Another detailed study was carried out to assess "Savings in the consumption of electricity in
municipal pumping systems of Faridabad Municipal Corporation".
4.     The first activity was in direct support to HSEB to assist the DSM cell to develop large-scale
DSM project and access WB funds for distribution system improvement. Feasibility Reports on "LT Less
System" & "Agriculture Pumps improvements" in four rural feeders were prepared and submitted to the
DSM cell and WB.
5.     The second activity was carried in Faridabad Municipal Corporation to demonstrate the potential
of efficiency improvements in municipal water pumping operation with substantial reduction in energy
consumption.
6.    In addition to the studies, support was extended to HSEB DSM  cell to develop a two year
workplan. Subsequent TA and training support was extended to the cell for one-year period to help build its
capacity to carryout foundational work to carry out load research and forecasting statistical analysis for
load shape development, market research, impact evaluation data preparation for planning (customer
research, load data, technology data).
7.    During the fifteen-month period, TA and training assistance of approximately $500,000 was
directed to state of Harayana (HSEB and Faridabad Muncipal Corporation) for initiating various DSM
activities.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
The following table summarizes the technical assistance support provided to Haryana.
Area of TA                        Funding Agency         Period             Status
Haryana Power                            WB (PPF)            1993-94          Completed
Sector Restructuring
Study
Haryana Power                            WB (PPF)            1993-94          Completed
Development &
Investment Planning
Study
Financial                                   WB               1997-98          Completed
Restructuring of
HSEB
Preparation of bid                          WB               1997-98          Completed
documents for
transmission works
Limited Consultancy                         WB               1997-99          Completed
for bid evaluation of
important
transmission works
- 32 -



Capacity building for                         DFID               1998-01           In progress
Haryana Electricity
Regulatory
Commission
Re-evaluation of                              DFID               1999-00           Completed
Fixed Assets & works
in progress
Rescheduling of                               DFID               1998-99           Completed
Debts & Liabilities.
Communication                                 DFID               1998-01           In progress
strategy and
management
Enhancing billing,                            DFID               1998-01           Completed
collection and
customer service
standards
Corporatisation,                              DFID               1998-01           In progress
Commercialization
and Distribution
Privatizations
Development of MIS                            DFID               1998-99           Completed
(Inventory Control &
Customer Services)
Training in fiannce,                         USAID               1998-99           Completed
distribution system
operation and
maintenace, DSM
DSM Projects                               Trust Funds
DSM project (APL2)                         Trust Funds
Socio-Economic                                DFID               1998-00       Completed. Follow
Impact Assessment                                             Phase II - 2001    up stockholder survey
in progress.
Pension Fund &                                DFID               1998-00           Completed
Trust Establishment
- 33 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
L .ndicator/Matrix                   Projected n last PSR                    ual     Eim e
14 August, 1998
1. Comprehensive reform legislabon brought
into effect.
2. Regulatory commission established                                         17 August, 1998
3. Restructuring measures effected, and                                      14 August, 1998 (Genco and Transco)
new power utilities (GENCO, TRANSCO)
established and operational
By end June 1998
4. Debt and overdue commercial liabilites
rescheduling plan negotiated and agreed with
HSEB's creditors. (effected in March 1999)
By end September 1998                                                       July, 1999
5. New distribubon companies established in
July 1999
By end 1998                           Resumpton of the process, notably with a   The government is yet to finalize its strategy
multi year tariff applicabion         for distributon privatizabon.
6. Strategic pnvate investor for the East Zone
distribution company selected: process
started in May 1999 but put on hold by new
Govemment in October 1999
By end 1998                           Two tariff applications filed and Fuel  Partially accomplished
Surcharge Ajustment effected as a matter
7. Financial restructuring implemented as   of routne.
per the agreed plan. A major action (tariff
increases) not yet taken by utilities. This has
fully undermined the restoration of the
financial condition of the utilities.
Output Indicators:
tndicatoriMatrix                    Projected in last PSR                 ActuallLatst Estimathe
Evacuation and transmission of 650 MW                                        Evacuation of additional 432 MW of power
(end CY 2000): progress as scheduled                                        from the new combined cycle gas based
power generation plant at Fandabad
commissioned on October2000.
None of the nine liquid fuel based power
projects (25 MW capadty each), envisaged
to be commissioned during the project period
have achieved financial closure. Due to the
delays in commissioning of these projects
evident during the project implementation,
the investments planned for construction of
lines for evacuaton and transmission form
these new generation projects was
re-allocated to rehabilitation of additional 160
11 kV feeders.
- 34 -



Improved voltage profile in selected areas    Good, perceptble progress in selected  For details refer to Annex 1 (a).
with reference to baseline data        areas.
In the field survey conducted by an
independent agency to obtain consumers'
feedback, domestic and agriculture
consumers have reported significant
improvements in voltage profile, reduction in
fluctuatons, reduced incidence of
transformer damage and fewer interruptions,
wherever rehabilitation work has been
completed under APL1.
Reduction in system losses             All 50 feeders not fully rehabilitated, with  Losses in high voltage network in
significant improvement in quality and  Abdulapur-Panipat-Shahbad area have been
availability.                          reduced by about 12 MW during peak load
conditions as confirmed by actual
measurement and system studies.
For details of losses in the distribution
system, refer to Annex 1 (a).
Gradual improvements in measures of    Visible and perceptible improvements    DTR failure rates have reduced significantly.
efficiency and effectveness for consumer                                       Outages/interruptions on the feeders have
services                                                                       also reduced significantly in areas where
rehabilitation work has been completed (refer
Annex 1 (a). The improvements are also
perceived by the consumers as reported
during the field survey carried out by the
independent agency.
Consumer feedback, indicates that there is
much to be achieved in customer service
areas induding billing, collection, and
complaint handling.
Improved consumer confidence in, and   Based on the results of the Dhysical works,
support to power sector policy          more confidence needed about the expected
benefits of reforms.
Institutional development programs initiated  TA underway for at least GEENCO and  List of TA's provided to Haryana
TRANCO, and privatization process      DFID - HVPN
restarted under way for both discoms.  DFID - HERC
USAID - HVPN
Detailed Engineenng Planning and       100% items procured and delivered       For details refer to para 4.2 of the ICR.
Procurement Arrangements
End of project
Annex 1(a)
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Some Important System Improvements
A.       Grid Voltage (220 kV)
With the commissioning of the project 220 kV Yamnanagar-Shahabad line, the 220 kV grid
voltage at Shahabad and neighboring substations has r,zgistered an increase of about 10-12 % under
various loading conditions. This line has provided a short load flow path for loads of Shahabad, Pehowa
and Kaithal sub-stations. Earlier these loads were fed via a longer route from Panipat-Narwana.
B.       Low Voltage (400 volts)
After the commissioning of project 220 k'V facilities, rehabilitation of 11kV feeders and
- 35 -



augmentation of 33/11 kV substations, a comparison was made between the 400 volts readings at the
consumer's premises, before rehabilitation and after rehabilitation. The comparison periods were months of
November 1999 to February 2000 and November 2000 to February 2001. The selected consumers were
the same and located at the farthest end of the feeder; the readings were taken both at peak and off-peak
time. Fifteen feeders each from UHBVN and DHBVN, which were complete in all respects at the time of
study were selected for this comparison. The following table shows the summary results of peak time
readings:
Range of Average Voltages    % improvement   % reduction
in voltage     in number of
outages
S.No.    Feeder details
Before      After rehab          (%)              (%)
rehab
(Volts)       (Volts)
UHBVN
1      Three feeders in Kurukshestra Circle  316-344        328-401           17-May            53-91
2      Five feeders in Karnal Circle          270-340       296-350           15-Mar            46-85
3      Two feeders in Rohtak Circle          327-360        365-372           12-Mar            70-72
4      Two feeders in Jind Circle             320-353       343-370           7-May               92
5      Two feeders in Ambala Circle          226-318        310-372            17-27            23-70
6      One feeder in Yamunanagar Circle        296            316               6                 5
Sub-total: Fifteen feeders
DBBVN
7      Three feeders in Sirsa Circle         320-325        365-375            13-21            56-77
8      Three feeders in Hissar Circle        320-355        372-396           16-Oct            58-81
9      Two feeders in Bhiwani Circle         325-328        355-362           1Il-Sep           38-65
10     Two feeders in Gurgaon Circle          322-335        350-362           9-Aug            47-48
I I    Four feeders in Faridabad Circle       330-348        364-395           15-Oct           49-74
12     One feeder in Namaul Circle              320            360               16               79
Sub-total: Fifteen feeders
Total: Thirty Feeders
- 36 -



C.     Outages
The above table also shows that the number of outages are substantially reduced as a result of
rehabilitation of feeders. The findings are based on the data collected during above mentioned four months
and for thirty feeders.
D.     Burning Rate of Distribution Transformers
As a result of rehabilitation, the burning rate has also decreased. During FY 2001, the burning rate
was reported to be 21.76% compared to 25.91% during FY 2000 and 28.22% during FY 99.
E.     Technical Losses
On account of lack of adequate metering at some of the consumers, specially the agricultural
consumers, it is very difficult to determine the system losses. Haryana has, however, selected five urban
supply feeders which provide metered supply to all consumers. A comparison was made for the units sent
out, units sold and units lost for months of September 1999 through February 2000 (before rehabilitation)
and the months of September 2000 through February 2001 (after rehabilitation) on these feeders. The
following table summarizes the results:
S.No.          Name of the feeder         Average energy sent out      Energy lost as % of
per year (GWh)              energy sent
% (Commercial and
Technical Losses)
Before rehab   After rehab    Before rehab    After rehab
I     City feeder Bahadurgarh (UHBVN)     15.7         22.4          37.3          25.5
2     Parvitia feeder (DHBVN)              30.3        31.4          47.7          46.4
3     NH-3 feeder, Faridabad (DHBVN)      34.0         39.2          47.7          46.0
4     Faridabad township feeder (DHBVN)    23.7        26.1          43.4          39.7
5     Dabua feeder (DHBVN)                30.7         29.5          42.1          35.3
The above figures are approximative due to poor metering.  Haryana has started a massive
program to provide meters at all unmetered premises and replace old electro-mechanical meters with more
accurate electronic meters. It is only when this metering program is complete, that it will be possible to
have a more clear picture of system losses.
- 37 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    AtwtLatst   Per6entae iof
Estimate       Estimate        Apprail
Piroect Cs By Component                  U   milli'     US$ million  |____________
l.a Construction of critically needed transmission lines and  15.00      19.46             128
sub-stations
l.b Rehabilitation of sub-transmission & distribution   47.30            43.28              89
systems
2. Improvement of commercial and technical services to    1.20            1.59             133
consumers
3.Technical assistance and engineering services         13.50             2.14              15
Total Baseline Cost                                     77.00            66.47
Total Project Costs               77.00            66.47
Total Financing Required                77.00            66.47
Proect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ mnillion equivalent)
____________ ____________  Procurement Method'
Expenditure                      NCB NICB  CtNB                              Total Coti
C a e _ r                                _ _ _._.,_,_ _,_ _,_. _,,
1. Works &          58.40           3.90           0.00           0.00           62.30
Goods              (52.80)         (3.20)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (56.00)
2. Services -        1.20           0.00           0.00            0.00           1.20
Improvement of      (1.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.00)
commercial &
technical
services to
consumers
3. Technical         0.00           0.00           3.00           10.50           13.50
assistance &        (0.00)         (0.00)          (3.00)         (0.00)         (3.00)
engineering
services
Total               59.60           3.90           3.00           10.50           77.00
(53.80)         (3.20)         (3.00)         (0.00)         (60.00)
Project Costs b Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        1GB           NCB           Other2        N.B.F       Totl Cost
1. Works                       62.74          3.90          0.00          0.00          66.64
(48.67)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (48.67)
2. Goods                       0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
- 38 -



3. Services                        0.79            0.80            0.00            0.00           1.59
Improvement of                    (0.74)          (0.80)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.54)
commercial and technical
services to consumers
4. Technical assistance            0.00            0.00            2.14            0.00           2.14
and engineering services          (0.00)          (0.00)          (2.14)          (0.00)         (2.14)
Total                          63.53            4.70           2.14            0.00           70.37
(49.41)         (0.80)          (2.14)          (0.00)        (52.35)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
l                                                                  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentageof Aporaisal
Component                Appraisal Estimate             ActuaYLates Estcnate 
________________    Bank           Govt       CoF.       Bank       Govt.       CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Emergency lnvestment    11.20      3.80                  15.10      4.36                134.8  114.7
Measures:
L.a Construction of
critically needed
trans-mission lines and
sub-stations
L.b Rehabilitation of      44.80      2.50                  33.57      9.71                 74.9   388.4
sub-transmission and
distribution systems
2. Improvement of          1.00       0.20                  1.54        0.05               154.0   25.0
commercial & technical
services to consumers
3. Technical assist-ance   3.00       10.50                 2.14                            71.3    0.0
and engineering services
Total                      60.00      17.00                 52.35      14.12                87.3   83.1
39 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic and Financial Analyses of APL 1
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis                    Financial Analysis
Appraisal       Latest Estimates      Appraisal    Latest Estimates
A. Transmnission
Cost (NPV) Rs million     52,136            145                  52,361           174
Benefit (NPV) Rs mnillion  58,526           974                  58,526           886
Net benefit (NPV) Rs million   6,390        829                  6,166            712
Rate of Return            86.4%             88%                  63.7%            67%
B. Distribution Rehabilitation
Cost (NPV) Rs million     1,410             1188                 1,872            1627 (1627)
Benefit (NPV) Rs rnillion  4,640            2296                 7,003            2587 (3605)
Net benefit (NPV) Rs rnillion   3,230       1107                 5,131            960(1977)
Rate of Return            46.73%            22%                  54.3%            19%(24%)
C. Total APLI
Cost (NPV) Rs million     53,781            1799                 54,355           2367(2367)
Benefit (NPV) Rs million  63,176            3270                 65,529           3473 (4491)
Net benefit (NPV) Rs million   9,396        1471                 11,174           1106 (2124)
Rate of Return            52.36%            21%                  53.05%           18% (22%)
* Figures in bracket are based on assumption of reduction in non technical losses to the extent of 50% of the
estimated savings during appraisaL
Notes:
1.     The transmission component includes the cost and benefits of three transmission lines and one
sub-station, which has benefited in reduction of technical losses in the transmission system, improvement of
voltage conditions and facilitated transmission of power in the Haryana system to the load center which had been
constrained and was thus a major bottleneck in the system. The evacuation lines planned at appraisal to evacuate
power from short gestation IPPs were not taken up as the generation projects have not yet achieved financial
closure. Thus the benefit of additional energy of about 25,000 MUs for Haryana system as assumed during
appraisal, has not been considered in the present analysis. In addition the other investments in transmission
component included inter-utility meters to measure flow of energy between transmission company and the two
distribution companies and PLCC, which have not been included in the analysis, but have been included in the"
Total APLI" analysis.
2.     Cost in the distribution component includes, investments incurred in rehabilitation of 50 number 11 kV
feeders, various types of consumer meters ( single phase, three phase, electronic, electromechanical etc.), cost of
pick up vans, meter testing vans, jeeps and heavy duty trucks procured under the project for implementation works
under the project, and the equipment procured for distribution rehabilitation which is used in 160 feeders in
addition to the original 50 feeders (re-allocated from transmission evacuation component under APLI).
3.     All the feeders under consideration do not have complete metering to facilitate actual measurement of
losses before and after rehabilitation. The reduction in technical losses have thus been estimated based on the
actual measurement of losses before and after rehabilitation in the 5 feeders where almost complete metering is
present. The average savings per feeder is thus estimated to be 1.34 MUs per feeder (the savings are seen to range
from 0.4 MUs in one feeder to 2.64 MUs in another; the savings per feeder estimated at the time of appraisal was
about 4.7 MUs per year). In case of partial rehabilitation work on 130 feeders (out of 160 feeders, 130 are being
partially rehabilitated and balance fully rehabilitated) the benefits are assumed to be 20% of that in case of full
- 40 -



rehabilitation as per the best estimates of Haryana. In the risk analysis carried out during appraisal it was estimated
that if the savings in distribution losses is reduced by 50%, the ERR of the distribution rehabilitation component
will drop from 46.7% to 22.5%.
4.      The utility is in the process of installing/ replacing consumer meters and proposes to complete metering at
various voltage levels and 100% consumer metering. It will be extremely difficult to estimate the benefits of
reduction in non-technical losses until complete metering of all consumers is achieved, and is thus not included in
the estimation. To this extent the net benefits and the FRR are underestimated. However, the sensitivity analysis
based on assumption of reduction in non-technical losses to the extent of 50% of the estimated savings during
appraisal is presented. In the risk analysis carried out during appraisal it was estimated that if the savings in
distribution losses, both technical and non-technical, is reduced by 50% and the implementation requires six years
instead of three (it will take another 2-3 for the utilities to complete installation of consumer meters procured under
APLI, specifically for agriculture consumers), the FRR of the distribution rehabilitation component will drop from
54.3% to 27. 1%.
5.      All the estimates are at FY1999 price level; inflation rate assumed to be 6%, NPV 12%, and duties and
taxes as per the actual details obtained from Haryana. The evaluation of benefits in economic analysis is based on
willingness to pay by the consumers and for financial analysis average per unit revenue from non-agriculture
consumers is used (Rs 3.39/kWh).
- 41-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Nof. ofPersons and Specialty             Performane Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 27 - July 7,             4   B. I)avis ( ); R. Ribi ( );
1994                              S. Usgaonkar (RA); D. Mostefai
(TL)
July 25 - 28, 1994            3   Y. Ziv ( ); S. Usgaonkar (RA);
D. Mostefai (TL)
August 8 - 17,                3   R. Ribi ( ); S. Usgaonkar (RA);
1994                              D. Mostefai (TL)
October 18 - 27,             3   R. Ribi ( ); S. Usgaonkar (RA);
1994                              D. Mostefai (TL)
November 1 - 13,              3   D. MIostefai (TL);
1994                              E. Cordova ( ); A. Mejia ( )
December 8 - 9,
1994                         1   D. Mostefai (TL)
September 12 - 15,           3   M. Manrai (PC); S. Usgaonkar
1995                              (RA); D. Mostefai (TL)
November 21- 23,
1995                         1   D. Mostefai (TL)
Jan. 29 to Feb.2,            2   M. Manrai (PC); D. Mostefai
1996                              (TL)
February 6 - 9,              4   M. DManrai (PC); J. Barker (C);
1996                              D. Mostefai (TL); J. Shirazi (RS)
February 14 - 23,            10   K.N. Bhatia (PC); M.R.
1996                              Chaudhary (PC); H. Fujii (PE); J.
Hedgecock (PC); M. Manrai
(PC); A. Picardi ((EC); H. Salgo
(PSC); T. Storm (FA); S.
Usgaonkar (RA); D. Mostefai
March 26 - 28,               3   (TL)
1996                              Sawhney (PC); S. Usgaonkar
(RAP); D. Mostefai (TL)
May 21- 23, 1996             4   M.R. Chaudhary (PC); M.
Manrai (PC); S. Usgaonkar
(RA); D. Mostefai (TL)
October 23-25,               3   M. fManrai (PC); S. Shukla
1996                              (FA.); D. Mostefai (TL)
October 30-3 1,              2   M. 'Gulati (FA); S. Shukla (FA)
1996
November 6, 1996              4   E. Lim (CD); M. Gulati (FA);
M. Manrai (PC); D. Mostefai
December 19-20,                   (TL)
1996                         1
A. Plicardi (ES)
- 42 -



Appraisal/Negotiation
January 21-25,              7   J. Chassard (FA); M. Gulati
& February 4-6,                  (FA); M. Manrai (PC); IUB
1997                             Reddy (SDO); H. Salgo
(PSC); S. Shukla (FA); D.
Mostefai (TL)
March 5-6, 1997             1   IUB Redcly (SDO)
April 22-25, 1997           3   J. Barker (PC); J. Zuckernick
PC); D. Mostefai (TL)
May 26-30, 1997             6   M. Gulati (FA); P. Meier (C);
IUB Reddy (SDO); R. Sinha
(FA); S. Shukla (FA); D.
Mostefai (TL)
July 28-Aug. 1,             5   B. Bhatia (EE); S. Khosla (ESP);
1997                             M. Manrai (PC); S. Shukla
(FA); D. Mostefai (TL)
Sep. 15-Oct. 4,            13   G. Branscombe ( ); B. Bhatia
1997                            (EE); M. Gulati (FA); S. Khosla
(ESP); M.. Manrai (PC); P.
Meier (C); D. Mostefai (TL);
M.G. Rainachandran (LC); IUB
Reddy (SDO); H. Salgo (C); R.
Shankar
( ); S. Shiukia (FA); S. Vani ( )
Supervision
Feb. 4-6, 1998               3   M. Manrai (PC); S. Shukla          HS            S
(FA); D. Mostefai (TL)
Feb 19-21, 1998              7  B. Bhatia (EE); P. Kochar (PA);     HS            S
M. Manrai (PC); M.G.
Ramachzndran (LC); S. Shukla
(FA); S. Vani ( ); D. Mostefai
(TL)
Feb 26-27. 1998              3   H. Salgo (PSC); S. Shukla (FA);    HS            S
D. Mostefai (TL)
April 1-10, 1998             6   R. Jones {DFID}; D. Mostefai      HS             S
(TL); M. Manrai (PC); M.G.
Ramachandran (LC); IUB Reddy
(SDO); S. Shukla (FA)
June 15-19, 1998             4   S. Khosla (ESP); M. Manrai         HS            S
(PC); D. Mostefai (TL); S.
Shukla (FA)
July 7-9, 1998               1  E. Heijd-rmanns (RES)               HS            S
July 13-18, 1998            12   A. McKechnie (ESM); B. Bhatia     HS             S
(EE); S. Khosla (ESP); M.
Manrai (PC); P. Meier (C); D.
Mostefai (TL); M.G.
Ramachandran (LC); S. Shukla
(FA); P. Kochar (PA); R. Bhatia
(C); Dr. S.K. Raheja (C); A.
Kulshreshtha (ST)
September 25,                1   S. Akbar (ES)                      HS            S
1998
- 43 -



Oct. 20 - 23, 1998               4   P. Meier (C); H. Salgo PSC); D.          HS               S
Mostefai (TL); S. Shukla (FA)
Nov.30 - Dec.4 &                  7   D. Mostefai (TL); M. Manrai             HS               S
Dec.9, 1998                           (PC); S. Shukla (FA); P. Kochar
(PA); S. Akbar (ES); ); B. Bhatia
(EE); H. Salgo (PSC)
Dec. 7-14, 1998                  2   C. Govindarajalu (ESP); Roger            HS               S
Peters (C)
Jan.28-29, 1999                  1   I.U.B. Reddy (SDO)                        S               S
Feb. 16-23, 1999                 2   S. Padmnanabhan (ESP); Roger              S               S
Peters (C)
April 26-May7;                   6   D. Mostefai (TL); M. Manrai               U               U
May 17; May 19-20                     (PC); S. Shukla (FA); P. Kochar
& May 27-28, 1999                     (PA); S. Akbar (ES); ); B. Bhatia
(EE)
May 29-31, 2000                  3   D. Mostefai (TL); M. Manrai               U               U
(PC); B. Bhatia (EE)
Sep. 25-28, 2000                 4   D. Mostefai (TL); M. Manrai
(PC); S. Shukla (FA); B. Bhatia
(EE)
ICR
Nov. 16-17, 2000                 2     S. Akbar (ES); I.U.B. Reddy
(SDO)
May 7 - 9, 2001                  4    D. Mostefai (TL); M. Manrai
(PC); S. Shukla (FA); B. Bhatia
(EE)
Legend:
CD = Country Director             PC = Power Consultant
EC = Envitonment Consultant       PE = Power Engineer
EE = Energy Economist             PSC = Privatization Specialist Consultant
ES = Environment Specalist        RA = Research Analyst
ESM = Energy Sector Manager       RES = Renewable Energy Specialist
ESP = Energy Specialist           RS = Resident Staff (Delhi)
FA = Financial Analyst            SDO = Social Development Officer
LC = Legal Consultant             ST = Summer Trainee
PA = Program Assistant            TL = Team Leader
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
No Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                      104                             243
Appraisal/Negotiation                            38                               71
Supervision                                     131                             348
ICR                                              11                               43
Total                                           284                              705
- 44 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
N Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
I Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development               O H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
I Environmental                           O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Li Gender                           O H  C SU O M  O N  * NA
LI Other (Please specify)           O H  C SU O M  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development              0 H  C SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
I Public sector management                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  C SU O M  O N  * NA
- 45 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                           OHS Os   Ou  OHU
M Supervision                                        OHS OS   Ou  OHU
M Overall                                            OHS OS  O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
I Preparation                                        OHS Os   O u  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
1 Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS     *U   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS   * U  O HU
- 46 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Sector Work on "Supply of Power to Agriculture"
Reports from the independant survey company
Supervision Aide-memoires
Consultants Reports
A.    Government of Haryana and Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB)
A.1. Policy and Program Statements
General Power Sector Policy Statement, January 1996
Detailed Power Sector Policy Statement, November 1997
Haryana Power Sector Restructuring and Development Program: Program and Project Implementation
Plan; November 1997
Emergency Action Plan, October 1997
Financial Restructuring Plan, November 1997
Financial Commitment Letter, November 1997
Social Policy and Procedures (Transmission Investments), November 1997
Haryana Power Sector Investment Program - Long Term Requirements for Transmission and Distribution
System, November 1997
A.2.  Assessments
Environmental Analysis of Transmission Line Projects, March 1, 1997
Baseline Economic Surveys of the Proposed Sub-stations and Transmission Lines and Resettlement Action
Plan, November 1997
A.3   Consultants Reports
Power Sector Development and Investment Planning Siudy; September 1995
Volume 1: Optimum Utilization of HSEB's Existing Facilities
Volume 2: Load Forecasting
Volume 3: Integrated Least-Cost Expansion Study; Vol. I & II
Volume 4: Implementation Program Final Report
Criteria Document
Restructuring Study for the Haryana Power Sector, 1995
Volume I: Executive Summary
Volume II: Diagnostic Report
Volume III: Assessment and Comparison of Options for Reform
Volume IV: Recommnended Reform Program
Volume V: Implementation Plan
Volume VI: Technical Appendix
Messrs. Chaudhary and Bhatia
- 47 -



*   Detailed analysis of technical and non-technical losses on 18 feeders of HSEB (Rohtak, Sonepat and
Kamal circles), 1997
*   Rehabilitation and Reinforcement of HSEB Network, 1996
Environmental Consultant
*   Environmental Impact Assessment/Environmental Management Plan (Faridabad Power Station),
August 1997
*   Environmental Impact Assessment/Environmental Management Plan (Panipat Power Station), August
1997
Independent Survey Consultant
*   Draft final report on Impact Assessment of Pilot Investments in Haryana Power Sector Reform, June
2001
B.    World Bank Assessments
* Haryana Power Sector Restructuring and Development Program: Reform Agenda and World Bank
Assistance; June 1997
*   Haryana Power Sector Restructuring and Development Program: Economic Analysis; October 1997
*   Completion of Panipat Unit 6: Issues and Options - prepared by Dr. Peter Meier, IDEA, 1995
D   Financial Restructuring: Issues, Options and Simulations, May 1997
a   Financial Appraisal Report, November 1997
C.    Other: Demand Side Management and Co-Generation
*   India: Haryana State Power Sector Restructuring Project - Energy Efficiency/Demand Side
Management Component - June 1997
*   India: Haryana State Power Sector Restructuring Project - Bio-mass Cogeneration Project
Development Study - May 1997
* Haryana State Power Sector Restructuring Project - Study on Bio-mass Cogeneration in Haryana -
May 1997
*   Haryana State Power Sector Restructuring Project - Energy Efficiency Services; Volume I - Main
Report; Volume II - Annexures - April 1997
D.    List of Aide-Memoires
S.No.        Aide-Memoire for:                     Month / Year
I       Preparation Mission           June 27 to July 7, 1994
2       Preparation Mission           July 25 to July 28, 1994
3       Preparation Mission           August 8 to 17, 1994
4       Preparation Mission           October 18 to 27, 1994
5       Preparation Mission           November I to 13, 1994
- 48 -



6         Preparation Mission                December 8 to 9, 1994
7         Preparation Mission                September 12 to 15, 1995
8         Preparation Mission                Ncvember 21 to 23, 1995
9         Preparation Mission                Jati. 29 to Feb.2, 1996
10       Preparation Mission                 February 6 to 9, 1996
11       Preparation Mission                 February 14 to 23, 1996
12       Preparation Mission                 March 26 to 28, 1996
13       Preparation Mission                 May 21 to 23, 1996
14       Preparation Mission                 July 23, 1996
15       Preparation Mission                 October 23-25, 1996
16       Preparation Mission                 October30 to 31, 1996
17       Preparation Mission                 November 6, 1996
18       Preparation Mission                 December 19-20, 1996
19       Appraisal/Negotiation Mission       January 211to 25, 1997 & February 4 to 6, 1997
20        Appraisal/Negotiation Mission      March 5 to 6, 1997
21        Appraisal/Negotiation Mission      April 22 to 25, 1997
22        Appraisal/Negotiation Mission      M.ay 26 to 30, 1997
23        Appraisal/Negotiation Mission      Juily 28 to Aug. 1, 1997
24        Appraisal/Negotiation Mission      Sap. 15 to Oct. 4, 1997
25        Supervision Mission                Feb. 4-6, 1998
26        Supervision Mission                Feb. 19-21, 1998
27        Supervision Mission                Feb. 26-27, 1998
28        Supervision Mission                April 1-10, 1998
29        Supervision Mission                Jane 15-19, 1998
30        Supervision Mission                July 7-9, 1998
31        Supervision Mission                July 13-18, 1998
32        Supervision Mission                Sept. 25, 1998
33        Supervision Mission                Oct. 20 - 23, 1998
- 49 -



34       Supervision Mission            Nov.30 - Dec.4 & Dec.9, 1998
35       Supervision Mission            Dec. 7-14, 1998
36       Supervision Mission            Jan.28-29, 1999
37       Supervision Mission            Feb.16-23, 1999
38       Supervision Mission            April 26-May 7; May 17; May 19; May 20 &
May 27-28, 1999
39      Supervision Mission             May 29-31, 2000
40       Supervision Mission            September 25-28, 2000
41      ICR Mission                     November 16-17, 2000
42      ICR Mission                     May 7 to 9, 2001
S. No.                       Details of Study Report                         Study done by:
1.     DSM  Upgrading of Agricultural Distribution Network for Gujarwas      Consultants
Feeder (DHBVN)
(3 volumes)
2.     Impact Assessment of Pilot Investment in Haryana Power Sector         Consultants
Reform (Preliminary Findings report and Inception report)
3.     Socio-Economic Assessment for Haryana PSRP                            Consultants
(4 volumes)
4.     DSM: Feasibility report for upgradation of distribution system for    Consultants
HSEB (2 volumes)
5.     DSM: Feasibility report for Pumping Efficiency System for HSEB        Consultants
(2 volumes)
6.     Energy Efficiency/DSM Component: Haryana PSR Project (I volume)   Individual Consultant for
the Asia Alternative
Energy Unit
7.     Biomass Cogeneration Project Development Study: Haryana PRP       The Asia Alternative
(I volume)                                                            Energy Unit
8.     DSM: Feasibility report on upgrading of Agricultural Distribution     Consultants
Network for Bastara Feeder (1 volume)
9.     DSM: Feasibility report on upgrading of Agricultural Distribution     Consultants
Network for Rewar Feeder (1 volume)
- 50 -



10.    DSM: Feasibility report on upgrading of Agricultural Distribution      Consultants
Network for Alampur Feeder (I volume)
II.    DSM: Feasibility report on upgrading of Agricultural Distribution   DSM Cell, UHBVN
Network for 1 1kV Alampur Feeder under Kurukshetra Circle for
UHBVN (I volume)
12.    DSM  Pilot study on Lift Irrigation Pump Houses in Haryana              Consultants
(3 volumes + presentation file)
13.    Pre-feasibility Draft report on LT less Distribution System and Energy  Consultants
Efficient Pumping system for Alampur Feeder
- 51 -



Additional Annex 8. Har yana Power Utilities: Operational and Commercial Improvement
Initiatives
1.     Drive to Control Theft and Pilferage of Energy
A drive to control theft and pilferage of electricity was launched in Haryana in FY2001. With
extensive  support from the state police departrnent and the admninistration,  consumer premises were
checked to detect theft cases. In FY2001 6.2 lakh consumer premises were checked and 51,411 theft cases
were detected which were levied penalty of Rs 380 million, of which the utility has recovered Rs 190
million. This was a massive initiative, considering that in the previous years only about 15000-20,000
cases per year were detected. A special drive was launched in March 2001 for voluntary disclosure of
unauthorized electricity load. About 57,000 consumers have disclosed their extended load.
Detection of Theft Cases
No. of    No. of theft FIRs lodged   Penalty   Amount
Year     consumer      cases                Imposed Rs. realized Rs.
premises    detected                 Lacs.       Lacs.
checked
1986-87         80,243       1,614         26        37.04        14.75
1987-88         47,452       1,193         44        19.48         7.14
1988-89         81,204       3,789           -       45.96        23.19
1989-90         80,538       6,465           -       112.3        40.81
1990-91         146,453     15,103        330       256.55       120.78
1991-92        142,279      10,641        293       282.85       106.55
1992-93        212,022      15,790        367       314.98       114.05
1993-94        321,831      16,898        690       386.03       150.52
1994-95        .810,748     27,455       2,102      664.98        316.6
1995-96        511,975       8,463        822       351.68       149.52
1996-97        534,991      21,771       2,310     1,049.75      339.41
1997-98        655,615      14,566      11,782     1,487.68      306.42
1998-99        403,665      17,642      12,892     2,428.63      622.09
1999-00        423,043      15,912       5,579     1,305.63      498.49
2000-01         621,899     51,411       9,061     3,800.16    1,888.00
2.     Drive for Collection of Arrears
Special drive to collect arrears from various consumer categories was launched during the 1999 and
2000. This drive has yielded excellent results: about Rs 6230 million of the defaulting amount has been
recovered during the last 20 months and 0.45 million consumers have been disconnected due to nonpayment
of electricity bills.
3.     Improvement in Collection Efficiency
During FY2001 the collection efficiency of UHBVN increased to 94% from 85% in FY2000, and
that of DHBVN increased to 94.85% from 90.3% in FY2000. There has been about 9% and 15.5%
increase in revenue assessed during FY2001 by UHBVN and DHBVN respectively. Due to extensive drive
for collections of arrears, strict adherence to disconnection policy and improvements in collections and bill
- 52 -



payment facilities to the consumers, the revenue realized lhas increased by about 2 1% in FY200 1 for both
the distribution companies.
Monthly revenue assessed, revenue reatlized and collection efficiency
UHIBV-N                     _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
Revenue Assessed (Rs.crore)       Revenue Reallized Cash (Rs.         Collection Efficiency()
______ ___  _ _____ ___  _ _____   ____ _____ Crore)    -      ~20         1    I c e s
Month    FY00         F2001   inces           Y00       FZQ ncrease   FY2000    FY2001   Increase
April         98.73      83.32       -7.14      65.52      73;.25      11.78      73.03       87.91      14.88
May           80.84      83.50       3.29       99.15      102.54      3.41       122.65      122.8       0.15
June          84.64      85.94       1.55       70.82      8 .41       14.95      83.68      974.73      11.05
July          90.96      89.91       -1.15       69.3       82.76      19.43      76.18       92.05      15.86
August        92.52      94.39       2.03       67.28      80.74       20.01      72.72       85.53      12.81
September    94.78   1102.31         7.94       8-.91      83.42        3.1       85.36       81.53      -3.83
October       98.43   1102.97        4.61       80.92      8'7.19       7.4       82.21       84.67       2.46
November-   94.15        104.62      11.12   -85.92        103.81      20.81      91.26       99.22       7.96
December    93.99        100.74      7.18       89.16      109.44      22.75      94.86      108.64      13.78
January       90.11      107.84      19.69      74.75      86.27       15.42      82.96       80.00      -2.96
February      82.64      110.82      34.1       67.33     1I20.14      48.72      81.48       90.37       8.88
March         83.96      108.45      29.17      69.2       113.39      63.86      82.42   1104.56  122.14
Apr.-Mar.  1076.74    1174.83        9.11      920.26     1104.35      20.00      85.47       94.00       8.53
~~~~~~~~DHBVN
April         89.08      83.88       -5.84      76.68      81.48       6.25       86.08       97.13      11.05
May           88.11      89.86       1.99       90.29      105.09      16.39      102.46     116.94      14.48
June          87.65      91.41       4.29       76.56      86.3        12.76      8735        94.44       7.09
July          84.15      94.07       11.79      78.51      87.09       10.93       93.3       92.58      -0.72
August        92.08      96.86       5.19       75.12      84.16       12.04      81.58       86.89       5.31
September    86.63       101.48      17.13      72.21      85.14       17.91      83.35       83.9        0.55
October       87.74      103.62      18.11      88.26      91.92       4.14       100.6       88.7       -11.89
November    84.99        104.97      23.52      78.41      96.97       23.68      92.25       92.38       0.12
December    89.73        10.8        1.6        9.8        99.48       8.86       101.84     95.85       -59
January       82.78      108.8       31.44      72.49      92.63       29.14      87.56       85.13      -2.43
Februiary     83.3 3      11. 84     3.21       71.73      10)4.98     46.37      86.07       93.87       7.8
March         84.26      111.68      32.55      68.15      12.3         347       80.8       111.95      31.07
Apr.-Mar.  1040.53    1202.27        15.54     939.77      1140.3      21.34      90.32       94.85       4.53
State as a Whole
April        178.81      167.2       -6.49      142.21     1.34.72      8.8       79.53       92.54      13.01
ma      _    168.96      173.36      2.61       189.44     2)07.62      9.6       112.12     1-19.76      7.64
June         172.28      177.35      294        147.38     1,57.74     13.81      85.55       94.58       90
July         175.11      183.99      5.07       147.81     159.86      14.92      84.41       92.32       7.91
August        184.6      191.26      3.61       142.6       164.9      15.8       77.14       86.22       9.08
September    181.42     203.79       12.33      153.12     1 68.56     10.08       84.4       82.71      -1.69
October      186.16     206.59       10.97      169.18      179.1      5.87       90:88       86.69      -4.18
November    179.14       209.59       17        164.33     200.78      22.18      91.73       95.79       40
December    183.72       204.52      11.32      180.53     208.91      15.72      98.27      102.15       3.88
January      172.88     216.65       25.31      146.47       78.9      22.14      84.72       82.58      -2.15
February     165.97      222.66      34.16      135.48     205.13      51.4       81.63       92.12      10.49
March        168.22      220.13      30.86      137.35     238.42      73.59      81.65      108.31      26.66
Apr.-Mar.  2117.27    2377.09       12-.27      1855.7    2244.65      20.96      87.65       94.43       6.78
1997-98      1906.98  ____    ____    1628.4   __85.39    ____
1998-99      2111.01   _ _ _   _     _ _  _     141.9    _   _ _ _     _ _  _     87.25     _ _ _ _
- 53 -



4.     Consumer Metering
Government of Haryana in the Memorandum of Understanding signed with the Ministry of Power,
Government of India has committed to complete 100% metering of all consumers, including agriculture
consumers, to be completed by December 2001. To strengthen the function of proper recording and
measurement of energy the distribution companies have initiated following steps towards consumer
metering
(a)    100% replacement of electro-mechanical meters: The work of 100% replacement of the existing
single phase electro-mechanical meters has been assigned to a private firm. The orders for supply
and replacement of 1.6 lakhs single phase meters has been placed on the firm. 50,000 meters have
since been replaced and the balance shall be replaced in due course of time. To start with, urban
areas of Faridabad, Gurgaon and Hissar have been selected where consumers have relatively more
consumption per connection.
(b)  Providing electronic meters of three phase domestic/non-domestic/industrial connections: The
existing three phase electro-mechanical meters on domestic, non-domestic (commercial), and
LT-industrial connections are being replaced by the three phase electronic meters. An order on rate
contract for 30,000 meters has since been placed, another LOI issued for 14,000 three phase 4 wire
20-60 Amp. electronic meters and a program of procuring another 90,000 meters is at
advanced stage of finalization.
During October 2000 to February 2001, a sample exercise was done on Dadri Division by installing
electronic C.T. meters on 10 low tension industrial connections of Oil Mills having sanctioned load
ranging between 65 kW to 69.5 kW. The electronic meters installed had the facility to record
maximum demand has brought out that (i) the maximnum demand recorded in all the cases have been
found 1.5 times the sanctioned load, and (ii) consumption has increased in all the cases ranging from
5 times to 15 times. Based on these results, it has been established that L.T. industrial consumers
manipulate their sanctioned loads and indulge in theft/manipulation of energy consumption. Similar
actions are being planned for various power consuming categories of consumers to reduce the losses
and increase the revenue.
(c)  Providing meters on unmetered agriculture connections: Haryana has decided that all new
agriculture consumers (as well as re-connection) will be provided metered connection. The existing
un-metered agriculture connections (about 3 lakh) are also planned to be metered by the distribution
companies by December 2001. An order for 30,000 three phase electro-mechanical meters has since
been placed under World Bank Loan. Procurement of another 12,800 meters is in the process. The
existing three phase electro-mechanical meters on three phase domestic, non-domestic and industrial
connections that are being replaced with the electronic meters, will be tested and re-calibrated to be
installed on un-metered agriculture connections.
In FY2001 about 10,000 new agriculture connections were released under "Tatkal Scheme". In the
first scheme 3755 cables and single pole connections were released on payment of Rs. 10,000/- and
Rs. 20,000/- respectively. In the second Tatkal Scheme high tension tubewell connections were
released on payment of Rs. 45,000/- up to 2 spans, Rs. 60,000/- up to 5 spans and Rs. 7000/- per
additional span beyond 350 meters. The cost of distribution transformer is to be bome by the
applicant. All these connections are released with metered supply.
- 54 -



(d)  Providing regular metered connections where theft/direct tapping suspected: Connections in
unauthorized colonies/areas were banned earlier. The instructions were issued to release metered
connections so that people do not resort to thefis. It was decided to charge Rs. 20/sq.yd. in
Faridabad and Gurgaon and Rs. 25/sq.yd. in other towns for plots above 100 sq.yds.
Commercial/Industrial connections could be released by payment of Rs. 5000/- and Rs. 10,000/-
respectively.
(e)  Voluntary Disclosure Scheme: A voluntary disclosure scheme has been launched in various towns
in a phased manner for the consumers to declare voluntarily their defective/tempered meters. As an
incentive to the consumers to declare more and more tempered meters, the penalty has been reduced
to one-third amount of the existing applicable penalty. The voluntary disclosure scheme has been
launched in the tow-ns of Hissar, Sirsa, Faridabad, Ellenabad, Dabwali, Tohana, Uklana, Adampur,
Faridabad and Ballabgarh. About 4846 tempered/faulty meters have been voluntarily declared by the
consumers and the same has been replaced with the accurate meters. Also a penalty of Rs. 121.33
lakhs have been realized.
(f)   Creation of Meter Bank of Single Phase Meters: To provide good quality electronic meters along
with a tamper proof meter cupboard, the meter banks have been set up in the field. By creating the
meter bank, the meter shall be readily available for installation on the consumer premises and the
consumers will not have to arrange their own meters and meter cupboards. These meter banks will
also facilitate the quick replacement of defective meters detected during checking.
(g)  Energy Audit; For effective energy audit, the 100% metering on all the 11 kV feeders has been
completed and interface metering is being provided in coordination with HVPNL which shall be
completed by July 2001.
- 55 -



Additional Annex 9. Main Achievements of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory
Commission
Establishment of HERC
Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) was set up on August 17, 1998 under The Haryana
Electricity Reform Act 1997. The Commission has three members and about 30 staff, selected through
open market competition. During the period of less than three 3 years the Commission has established its
own infrastructure, and has initiated work on several regulatory aspects. A Commission Advisory
Commnittee (CAC) has been constituted to assist and advise HERC in their regulatory roles and
responsibilities.
The main functions of HERC, as laid out in the Haryana Electricity Reform Act are:
*   To aid and advise the Govenmment in matters conceming generation, transmission, distribution and
supply of electricity in the state.
* To issue licenses and determine conditions governing the licensee as stipulated in the reforms act.
* To regulate working of the utilities (licensee) so as to optimize costs, ensure efficiency, economy and
equity.
* To regulate purchase, distribution, supply and usage of electricity, the quality of service provided to the
consumers and tariff and charges payable by them.
* To ensure financial soundness of the utilities, consequently to see that the charges for electricity
supplied are reasonable and duly realized by the utilities.
* To promote competitiveness and progressively involve private participation in the development of the
power sector.
* To set appropriate code of conduct and standards for the electricity industry in the state.
Key Regulatory Orders
In the period of two years the Comnmssion has set up its own rules and regulations of functioning,
established important guidelines for sector regulation, including annual revenue requirement (ARR), tariffs,
power procurement, grid code etc. The Commission and the new power companies are operating effectively
under the new regulatory environment in the power sector and the Commission has demonstrated its
capability to take independent decisions. Some of the important regulatory decisions / orders issued by the
Commission are:
Rejiulations and Guidelines
* Conduct of Business (HERC's) Regulation
* HERC officers and employees conditions of Service Regulation
*   Guidelines for functioning of Commission Advisory Committee
*   Commission's Complaint Handling Procedures
* Licensee Guidelines for Complaints Handling Procedure
* Code of practice for payment of bill and procedure for disconnecting consumers for nonpayment
* Guidelines for the filing of ARRs
* Guidelines for Load Forecast, Resource Plan and Power Procurement
* Tariff Regulations
* Consultation paper on Tariff Philosophy
- 56 -



*   Code of practice on payment of bills
*   Consumer's rights regulations
Re_ulatorv Orders
*   Licenses to HVPNL for Transmission & Bulk Supply of Power and Distribution & Retail Supply of
Power
*   Order giving permission to the two subsidiaries of TVPNL to operate the Distribution & Retail supply
Licence granted to the HVPN
*   Order on the first ARR (FY2000) for the Transmission & Bulk supply business and Distribution &
Retail supply business (29-11-99)
*   Order for Fuel Surcharge Adjustment (FSA)
*   ARR FY2001 order (for transmission company)
*   ARR FY2001 order (for distribution companies)
*   First Bulk Supply Tariff Order for FY2001
*   First Retail Supply Tariff Order for FY2001
Issues under review
v   Retail tariff for distribution companies for FY2002
*   Distribution & Retail Supply License for the distribution companies
*   Grid Code
*   Planning & Security Standards for Transmission system and Planning Standards relating to generation
capacity connected to the transmission system
*   Transmission operating standards and operating standards relating to the generation capacity connected
to the transmission system
* Planning and security standards for the Distribution system
*   Distribution Code
*   Bidding process and the draft PPA in respect of 500 MW Yamuna Nagar Power Plant
*   Metering Plan
*   Regulations on Fines & Penalties
*   Policy on Captive Power Plants
3   Policy on License exemptions
Summary of ARR and Tariff Orders
The Commission through its various orders, i.e. Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR), Fuel Surcharge
Adjustment (FSA) and Tariff, has given policy direction to the licensee. A few important features laying
the road map for the reforms process are summarized below:
First Annual Revenue Reauirement (ARR) order of the Commission (29-11-1999)
*   Directed the Transmission and Bulk Supply licensee to adopt a scientific method for forecasting the
Volume of Power Purchase as this in terms of cost accounts for more than 70% of the total cost. The
scientific method involved, among other things, taking into consideration imperfections of dispatch of
thermal plants and dependence of hydro plants on rainfall level etc. Further, for planning purposes the
licensee was directed to adopt demand projection.
*   On subsidy, the Commission clearly directed that it should be reflected in the accounts of the
- 57 -



Distribution business. The subsidy should not be diluted and distributed to all consumers.
*   There is no alternative to metering and all consumers should be metered so that correct consumption is
known. In the intervening period the licensee was directed to submit a time bound plan for installing
meters for the un-metered connections, and no new un-metered connections were to be provided.
*   The licensee was directed to make efforts to reduce Distribution loss so that by end March, 2000 the
distribution loss is brought down by 4%.
*   Pay particular attention to reduce the rate of damage to distribution transforners.
*   All investments in new Capital Works should be made in a well planned manner with proper
techno-economic justification to avoid delays and consequential time and cost overruns or any undue
storage at site/store.
*   Fix a date when plans for load research would commence, as it is important to develop accurate
estimates of the cost of providing service to the various consumer category.
Fuel Surcharge Adiustment (FSA) Order
*   Sales reported by the licensee was adjusted for the Commission approved loss level to arrive at the
power purchase volume on which FSA is to be allowed.
*   Source wise allocation of power purchase was restricted to the volume approved by the Commission in
case the volume from a particular source exceeded the approved volume in the ARR.
*   FSA was levied for the first time on agriculture consumers.
*   Utilities own consumption (so far free supply) was charged at non-domestic rates.
*   Low rates for H.T. industries as the cost to serve is comparatively lower.
Second ARR and first Transmission and Bulk SuDPlV Order
3   Unbundling of Transmission and Bulk Supply Tariff for the first time in the state.
3   Wheeling charges introduced at the rate of Rs.0.29/kWh, in case the licensee wheeled power for a third
party.
3   The Commission focused on the issues that are eroding the financial viability of the utilities. This
included converting payables of Rs.550 crores into bonds, expensive power purchased from HPGCL
sources, legality of the PF trust and installing inter-face meters.
Distribution and Retail suopvl ARR and First Retail Tariff Order (22-12-2000)
*   Overall average tariff increase of 11.5% (marginally higher than the tariff filing made by the
distribution companies of 10.4%). Tariffs for consumer categories were linked to their respective cost
of power supply.
*   Attempted to reduce cross subsidy: tariffs for agriculture consumers increased by 50% (very important
decision, given the sensitivities on increasing tariffs for agriculture consumers) and that for high
tension industrial consumers by 4%.
*   Tariffs for metered agriculture consumers increased by 24% as against 50% for un-metered consumers,
in order to encourage the consumers to voluntarily shift to metered supply.
*   A realistic assessment of agriculture consumption was made as 1452 hours of usage per pump set per
year based on the load factor of 16.57% for the metered agriculture pump set. Correspondingly T&D
losses have been restated at 40.76%.
*   Outstanding receivables, i.e. an increase of 30% in about 19 months reflects poorly on collection
efficiency of the licensee. Collection efficiency has to improve.
*   The Commission created 'Regulatory Asset' of Rs.432 crores (Rs 223 crores remaining uncovered
subsidy for agriculture committed by GOH, and Rs 208 crores from revenue not generated due to delay
- 58 -



in implementation of tariff order in FY200 1 (tariff was applicable for only 2 months in FY200 1). This
is to be recovered as Rs 258 crores (605) as deferred cost to be recovered through tariffs in future
(regulatory asset) and Rs 172.7 crores (40%) to be made up as efficiency gain by the utilities. se
deferred is to be ie223 crores.
*  Any efficiency gain made by the licensee to be shared between the licensee and consumers in the ratio
of 6:4.
Transparency in Regulating the Power Sector
Proceedings of the Commission are open to the public and on all important matters concerning the
consumers and various other interest groups - public, industry and consumers representative bodies
participation is sought by holding public hearings. All decisions of the Commission are in the form of
written orders with proper justifications in order to ensure transparency. To ensure justice and fair play a
provision exists for the utilities or any affected person to approach the Cormmission for a review of its
orders or file appeal against them in the High Court. The functioning of the Commission ensures, (i)
predictability and continuity is functioning through clear rules and procedures (ii) public announcement of
all issues under consideration (iii) opportunities to all concerned parties to participate and (iv) access to
information and orders of the Comrnission to all interested parties.
Performance Monitoring of the Power Companies
A major task of the Commnission is to oversee through iegulations the performance of the licensees. The
Commission further provides, inter-alia, that it will encourage private investment and competition in the
power sector. For improving the functioning of the utilities the Commission has laid down milestones for
improvement of their performance. Standards and Codes that are in various stages of finalization are (i)
operating standards, (ii) overall performance standards, (iii) grid code and (iv) security standards. The
Commission regularly monitors the operational perfonnance of the companies through review of the
licensees compliance with license conditions and directives in the tariff orders.
Consumer Protection
A lot of effort is being made to protect and promote the interest of the consumers. In this direction, the
Commission has approved the following documents for thie utilities:
*   Commission's complaint handling procedure
*   Code of practice on payment of bills
*   Consumer's rights regulations
*   Licensee complaint handling procedure
Institutional Capacity Building of HERC
Substantial efforts have been made by the Commission, for appropriate training and capacity building of
the newly established organization. Intemnational Regulatory Consultants NERA, funded by DFID, were
assisting HERC in various important regulatory issues for a period of about two years. NERA team, was
based in HERC office and provided day to day on the job support for capacity building and training to the
Commission staff. Important areas capacity building include regulatory accounting, Regulatory
Infonnation Management System (RIMS), PPAs, tariff design, investment appraisal and resources plan,
infonmation dissemination and consumer awareness. NERA conducted in-house comprehensive training
- 59 -



program for the Commission's staff. Some staff members have also attended training programs organized
by SAFIR, ASCI, etc. The Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission has entered into Energy
Partnership Programme under USEA/USAID for two years with the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio
(PUCO), USA. The MOU signed thereof aims to facilitate mutual transfer of experience and information
between the two partners in all areas of regulatory activities.
Website
HERC has its own website www.herc.nic.in The site contains detailed informnation on the Organization,
Licensing, Tariff issues, Orders issued by the Commission so far, Documents approved by the Comnmission
etc.
- 60 -



Additional Annex 10. Key Results of the Emergency Investment Program
(A) Improvement in Voltage Level at Consumer End and Reduction in Interruptions after
rehabilitation of llkV Feeders under APL-I
Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd (North Power Distribution Company)
SNo.   Name of the
feeder under          Before Rehabilitation                After Rehabilitation        Percentage Percentage
rehabilitation                                                                          Improve-   Reducion
Period     Average   Total no. of   Feriod     Average   Total no. of ment in the  in the no.
NORTH              under     minimum    interrup-      under    minimum    interrup-    voltage   of interrup-
considera-   tailend      tions     considera-   tailend      tions                   tons
tion      voCa                      tion      voltage
KURUKSHETRA Circle
1   Madudan          1/99 to 6199    316.67      90      1/2k to 6/2k    327.67       8        85.12%      91.11%
2   Mangoi*               -           -           -        9/2k to     354.75        10           -
12/2k
3   Padla              10/99 to     328.33       19        10/2k to    350.00         6         6.60%      68.42%
12/99                               12/2k
4   Tatka              7/99 to      344.17       76        7/2k to     401.00        36        16.50%      52.63%
F__   Circle12/99                                              12/2k                _    __
KARNAIL Ci rchle
5   Lalupura           4/99 to     340.00        243       4/2k to     349.44        117        2.77%      51.85%
12/99                               '2/2k
6   Malikpur         4/99 to 9/99    306.67      111     4/2k to 9/2k    348.33      42        13.58%      62.16%
7   Abla               4/99 to      323.88       132       412k to     333.44        50         2.95%      62.12%
12/99                               12/2k
8   Palheri            4/99 to      270.55       140       4/2k to     296.11        21         9.44%        85%
12/99                               12/2k
9   Jalmana            6/99 to     272.86        50        6,12k to    313.57        27        14.92%       46%
_____               12/99                               12/2k
ROHTAK Cirde
10   CR Park            9/99 to     327.5         32        912k to     365.25        9         11.53%      71.88%
12/99                               12/2k
11   City B/Gah.       10/99 to     360.00        65       1 C/2k to    371.65        19        3.24%       70.76%
12/99                               12/2k
JIND Circle
12   Kandela           10/99 to     320.00        78       10/2k to     343.6         6         7.40%       92.00%
12/99                               12/2k
13   Haripura          10/99 to     353.33        -        10/2k to     370.00         -        4.72%
12/99                               12/2k
14   Pindhara             -           -
AMBALA Circle
15   Barola             4/99 to     317.55       246        4/2k to     372.44        74        17.29%      69.91%
12/99                               12/2k
16 Ugala
17   Sohata             4/99 to     225.55       156        4/2k to     310.33       120        27.33%      23.07%
12/99                               12/2k
18 Tandwal
19   Danipur
YAMUN ANAGAR=
- 61 -



20   Dhanoura           8/99 to      296.11       332        8/2k to
12/99                            12/2k313.33
3165.81%5.
06%
21   Bakana             4/99 to                   250        4/2k to                   69                     73.26%
12/99                               12/2k
22   Malikpur
23   Hamol
* Correct Data for comparison before and after rehabilitation is not available.
Note: The Data after rehabilitation in respect of 11 kV Pindhara, Ugala, Tandwal, Danipur, Malikpur (YNR) and Harnol feeders is not available as
the newly erected feeders were energized during the last week of December 2000.
Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Ltd (South Power Distribution Company)
S.No.   Name of the
feeder under           Before Rehabilitation                After Rehabilitation        Percentage Percentage
rehabilitation                                                                           Improve-   Reducton
Period     Average   Total no. of   Period     Average   Total no. of ment in the in the no. of
SOUTH              under      minimum    interrup-      under     minimum    interrup-    voltage    interrup-
considera-   tailend      lions     considera-   tailend       tions                   lions
tion      voltage                   lion       voltage
SIRSA Circle
1   Narel Khera        11/99 to      320          44        11/2k to      375          11         21%         75%
12/99                               12/2k
2   Handi Khera        11/99 to      325          39        11/2k to      365          9          13%         77%
12/99                               12/2k
3    Mandi I/Il        11/99 to      322          23        11/2k to      368          10        14.10%       56%
___R Circle _              12/99                                12/2k
HISSAR Circle_______
4   Aharwan            11/99 to       320         59        11/2k to      372          21        16.30%       81%
12/99                               12/2k
5   Tohana City        11/99 to      355          38        11/2kto       390          14         98%         70%
_____                     12/100                                12/2k
6   Satrod             11/99 to      348          19        11/2k to      396          8         13.80%       58%
1__                 12/101                               12/2k
BHIWANI Circle
7   Chear              11/99 to      328          61        1 1/2k to     362          27        10.40%       55%
12/101                               12/2k
8    Dadri Urban       11/99 to       325         47        11/2k to      355          29        9.20%         38%
_____                     121102                                12/2k
GIURGAON Circle
9   Urban Estate       11/99 to      335          36        11/2k to      366          19        9.02%        47%
_____                     12/101                                12/2k
10   Raiseena           11/99 to      322          79       11/2k to      350          41         8.06%        48%
12/102                               12/2k
FARIDABAD Circle
11   NH-Ill           1/2k to 2/2k    345         118        1/2001-      395          31        14,50%        74%
2/2001
12   Township         1/2k to 2/2k    348          87        1/2001-      390          28        12.10%        69%
_______   212002
13   Old Faridabad    1/2k to 2/2k    335         133        1/2001-      386          35        15.20%        74%
2/2003
14   Palwal City-lI   1/2k to 2/2k    330         65         1/2001-      364          33        10.30%        49%
____ _  _ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ __   ____ ___   ___ ___ ___ 2 12004              _ _ _ _ _
NARNAUL Circle                    2_2004
- 62 -



|15  Gujjarwas    2/2k to 3/2k    320    187     22001-     360        39       16.10%    79%
The Data after rehabilitation in respect of I lkV remaining (12 nos.) feeders is not available as the newly erected feeders were
neregized in March 2001.
(B) Reduction in Distribution Transformer Failure Rate
S. No.                      1996-97     1997-98       1998-99    1999-2000   2000-2001
Name of the Circle % damage   % damage   % damage  % damage  % damage
UHBVN
I      Ambala             26.88         27.48        23.17        19.97       16.22
2      Yamunanagar         25.82        25.38         21.1        17.18       15.51
3      Kurukshetra         34.95        36.85        30.24        26.83       20.72
4      Kamal               40.24        44.75        34.54        29.55       17.84
5      Sonepat             39.16        45.14        37.26        36.15       21.31
6      Jind                29.81        3 5.85       30.98        35.53       22.51
7      Rohtak              32.07        32.66        26.01        24.8        15.78
Total                        34.14        36.93        29.92        27.03       18.74
UHBVN |
DHBVN
8      Faridabad           28.07        2:8.79       26.62        26.29       20.72
9      Gurgaon             26.60        28.45        24.49        19.47       16.24
10     Namaul              32.13        33.53         28.89       29.48        25.51
1 1    Hisar               26.44        31.65         27.94       21.47        17.92
12     Bhiwani             25.73        26.18         23.2        25.07        18.65
13     Sirsa               21.31        2:4.38        21.56       19.57        14.49
Total                        27.06        29.02        25.83        23.87       19.27
DHBVN
Total                        31.21        33.77        28.31        25.72       18.96
State
- 63 -



Additional Annex 11. Note from Haryana on the State's Achievements
This note has been prepared by Haryana as part of their contribution to this ICR
Major achievements made by the State Power Sector during the last 2 years
Brief description thereof.
1.    Record improvement in overall availability of power: There has been 22% increase in daily
power availability during the last 2 years i.e. the availability during 2000-01 was 447 lac units per day
compared to 367 lac units during 1998-99 and 415 lac units during 1999-2000. The corresponding increase
in power supply to agriculture sector has been 50 lac units per day during the last two years i.e. 27%
increase.
2.    Increase in installed generation capacity: During the last two years, there has been an increase of
642 MW in the generation capacity in the State i.e. 432 MW at Faridabad Gas-based Station and 210 MW
at Panipat Thermal Station. In addition, there has been increase of 35 MW due to rehabilitation of
Bhakra-Beas Power Stations and additional share from Central Power Stations. Thus, the increase has been
27.7%.
3.    Record production by State's own Generating Stations: Number of new performance records
were created by the State owned generating stations during this tenure, such as:
*  State's own generation stations set up a new generation record by achieving 4051 Million Unit
generation during 1999-200 against the earlier record generation of 3808 Million Unit recorded in
1992-93.
-   State's own Thermal Stations achieved a record Plant Load Factor of 53.24% during 1999-2000
against earlier highest figure of 50.03% achieved in 1992-93. Simultaneously, the lowest oil
consumption of 6.83 ml/kwh was achieved during 1999-2000 against the earliest record of 12.70
mnl/kwh for 1998-99. By reducing the fuel consunption, there was a saving of over Rs.40 crore during
one year.
*  Faridabad Thermal Station achieved record generation of 955 MU with a record annual Plant Load
Factor of 65.91% and a minimum oil consumption of 4.85 mi/kwh during the year 1999-2000.
*  Panipat Thermal Station (210 MW Unit-5) achieved highest generation of 1619 Million Units with a
record PLF of 87.75% and lowest coal! oil consumption of 0.696 kg/kwh and 1.71 ml/kwh respectively
during 1999-2000. The unit also created a record of 109 days of continuous operation during
July-November 1999.
*  Panipat Thermal Station recorded the lowest oil consumption of 6.23 ml/kwh during 2000-01 against
the earlier lowest figure of 6.89 ml/kwh achieved in 1999-2000.
*  Panipat Thermal 110 MW Units-1 & 4 achieved highest generation record during 2000-01 since their
year of installation.
*  WYC Hydroelectric Station exceeded its target of generation by 6.5% during 1999-2000.
- 64 -



4.    Program for future addition in generation capacity: Following new generation projects are being
pursued for achieving addition in generation capacity for the State:
*   Stage-II of WYC Hydroelectric Project (14.4 MW) has already been taken in hand with an estimated
cost of Rs.70 crore. The project would be commissioned by March 2002.
*   Faridabad Gas-based Station Stage-II (432 MW) - Gas allocation received from Ministry of Petroleum
& Natural Gas for NTPC Project.
*   Yamunanagar Thermal Project (500 MW) - Gas allocation received from Ministry of Petroleum &
Natural Gas for NTPC Project.
*   Hisar Thermal Project (500 MW) - Gas allocation received from Ministry of Petroleum & Natural
Gas for NTPC Project.
* Processing of Panipat Thermal Project Stage-V (2x250 MW) has been taken in hand so as to achieve
the capacity addition during the next 4 years. The project has been cleared by the State Finance
Department.
*   100 MW power has been secured from PTC/ NTPC out of the surplus power in the Eastem Region.
This will provide a substantial relief in the coming kharif season.
- The renovation, modernization and uprating of 4xl 10) MW Units of Panipat Thermal Power Station is
already in hand. Under this program not only the efliciency of the generating units is being enhanced
but simultaneously, the capacity of each Unit is being uprated to 118 MW.
*   Long-term Power Purchase Agreements are being finalized to secure maximum allocation from Central
Sector Projects and other IPPs in the region. Some of the projects being tied up are: Hinna Power
Project (Orissa), Rihand Stage-1I, Anta/Auriya Stage-Il, Rajasthan Atomic Power Plant Unit-4, Mega
Power Projects of NTPC like North Karanpura, Barh, etc. Simultaneously, efforts are being made to
secure power through Power Trading Corporation from Eastem Region, other Hydel Projects set up in
Himachal Pradesh.
5.    Strengthening of Transmission & Distribution System: With a view to improve the quality of
power supply in the State, massive investment has been made towards strengthening of Transmission &
Distribution system. Some of the major achievements made are:
*   12 new Grid Substations have been commissioned, 86 substations augmented and 346 kilometer
transmission line erected with an overall investment of Rs. 137 crore.
*   Schemes worth Rs.600 crore have been got sanctioned from Power Finance Corporation, Rural
Electrification Corporation and NABARD. These schemes would be implemented in the next 18
months. Under these schemes, 32 new grid substations are proposed to be erected.
*   MoU signed with the Government of India to assist in the State's program of power sector refonns.
The Gol would also assist the State in implementing the new power projects, provide extra allocation
of power from centrally sponsored schemes and provide funds for strengthening the power transmission
and distribution system.
- 65 -



*   A special rehabilitation program was taken up for the Distribution system under which 50 No.
overloaded 11 kV feeders have been bifurcated/ trifurcated into 143 feeders thereby reducing the load
on each feeder, improving the voltage profile and reducing the tripping/ breakdown.
*   Over 6000 distribution transformers have been added in the system and the equivalent numbers
augmented thereby increasing the capacity of the system and achieving a net reduction of 7% in the
transformer bum out rate. Even for the replacement of damaged transformers, transforner banks have
been created at all Divisions/ Circle level stores.
*   Over 10000 new tubewell connections were released during the year 2000-01 against the earlier yearly
progress of less than 1000 connections during the previous three years.
6.    Improvement in metering, billing and collection: Inadequacy of metering, billing and collection
affects not only the financial health of the Power Utilities but also creates harassment for the consumers.
Accordingly, following steps were taken to address this important area:
*   Campaign has been launched for replacement of defective meters and over 2.5 lac meters were replaced
during the last 2 years. Another 3.5 lac meters are being replaced in phases with a target of achieving
100% metering by December 2001.
*   Meter Banks have been set up at all the Divisional/ Circle level stores.
*   The bill distribution system has been modified to the extent that in urban areas, delivery of bills
through courier system and in rural areas through village chowkidars has been introduced in selective
areas on trial basis.
*   On-line computerized billing is being introduced at all Sub Division level so as to improve the quality
of billing and to reduce the time for settlement of billing disputes. This work is being outsourced by
inviting open competitive bids.
*   For the convenience of consumers, bill collection facility has been extended to 55 branches of the
Commercial Banks throughout the State.
* For the redressal of customer grievances, Bijli Sabhas, Bijli Adalats and even Consumer Advisory
Comnmittees have been established. The concept of holding Lok Adalats to settle the cases pending in
Courts has also been introduced. First hearing of the Lok Adalats was held at Panchkula on 12.5.2001
and 104 cases were settled with a recovery of Rs.10.15 lac.
7.    Improvement in financial performance of the Power Utilities: Financial health of the Power
Utilities is a key factor for providing good service to the ultimate customers. Towards this end various
successful campaigns were launched with rich dividends, such as:
*   In order to curb power thefts, extensive checking of customer premises for the theft of electricity and
unauthorized extension of load was launched. A record number of 6.22 lac consuner premises were
checked during 2000-01, which is almost 18% of the total consumer population. 51411 theft cases
were detected and an ever highest penalty of Rs.38 crore was levied on the unscrupulous consumers.
Highest recovery of penalty of Rs. 18.88 crore was made from these consumers.
- 66 -



*   The Power Utilities introduced various schemes for waiver of surcharge so as to clear the outstanding
dues towards electricity consumers. Simultaneously, drive for disconnection of the premises of the
defaulting consumers was taken up in a big way. Over 4.53 lac consumer premises were disconnected
and an amount of Rs.623.39 crore was recovered out of the arrears. The recent surcharge waiver
scheme concluded on 31.5.2001.
*   The direct impact of the drives launched by the Power Utilities could be judged from the statements of
revenue assessed, revenue realization and remnittance into Bank. Some of the major highlights are:
0 Higher revenue assessment of Rs.260 crore during 2000-01 corresponding to 12.3%
increase over the previous year. The overall revenue income increased by 34.66% over the
previous year.
0 Revenue realization improved by Rs.38O crore during 2000-01 corresponding to 21%
increase over the previous year.
0 A record remittance into Bank of Rs.249.74 crore achieved during March 2001 against
previous highest figure of 187.21 crore recorded during May 2000 with an overall
improvement during the year by Rs.409.47 crore during 2000-01 corresponding to 21.5%
increase over the previous year.
0 An ever highest collection efficiency of' 94.43% achieved during 2000-01 against the
earlier levels of 85.4% in 1997-98, 87.25% in 1998-99 and 87.65% in 1999-2000. This level
of collection efficiency is equal to the targets fixed under the financial restructuring plan
prepared for the reform program.
0 The net result of these financial performance parameters has been that against a projected
revenue gap of Rs. 1012 crore. During 2000-01, the actual gap has been reduced to less than
Rs.210 crore. Thus the commercial losses reduced to the extent of 66.4% compared to
previous year.
0 Due to rehabilitation carried out in the system, the repair and maintenance expenses
reduced by 2.5%.
0 The expenses on employees and adminisltation were reduced by a substantial amount of
6.7%.
The foregoing report is being submitted to give an idea of the positive results achieved in the Power
Sector because of the forward looking policies of the present Govemment and the Power Sector is fully
geared up to achieve highest customer satisfaction and fulfill the directions of the State Government.
- 67 -



Financial Performance of Haryana Power Utflities for the year 2000-01
(All Figures in Rs.crore)
Description      FY 2000    FY 2001    FY 2001      % Age Improvement
(Actual)  (Projected)  (Actual)
Over Projections of FY2001
Over Actual of FY 2000
Revenue Income
Revenue from sale of power  1986.66    2291.09    2383.48      4.0320.00
RE Subsidy               412.00     412.00     769.30
Regulatory Assets           -          -       259.20
Other Income             293.00     240.27     212.58
Total Income             2691.66    2943.36    3624.56         23.1434.66
Expenditure
Power Purchase          2054.83    2580.06    2556.07         (-) 1.0024.40
Repair & Mtc.            118.51     120.95     115.61        (-) 4.40(-) 2.50
Employees Cost & Admn. &   641.58   653.65     598.62      (-) 8.40(-) 6.70
Gen. Charges
Depreciation             208.10     216.93     205.94        (-) 5.10(-) 1.00
Interest & Financing     291.58     383.31     357.87         (-)6.4022.70
Cost
Total Expenses           3314.60    3954.90    3834.12      (-)3.0015.70
Profit (Loss)           (622.94)   (1011.54)   (209.56)     (-) 79.30(-) 66.40
- 68 -



- 69 -



