Report No. PID5675
Project Name             India-First Haryana Power Sector Restructuring (+)
Region                            South Asia
Sector                            Power Sector
Product ID                        INPE35160
Borrower                          Government of India (GoI)
Loan Amount                       US $ 60 million
Implementing Agencies             Government of Haryana (GoH)
Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB)
New Haryana power utilities
Contact          Mr. Ranjit Issar
Chairman, HSEB
Panchkula, Haryana
Tel: 91 172 560579/560652
Fax: 91 172 560087/565746
PID Preparation Date              October 16, 1997
Appraisal Date                    September 1997
Projected Board Date              January 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.      Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB) is a vertically
integrated utility fully owned by the Government of Haryana (GoH),
which supplies power in Haryana. Haryana's installed capacity is 2,
380 MW, consisting of HSEB's own power stations (863 MW), joint-
sector projects (899 MW), and shares in central utilities' power
stations (618 MW). The system serves about 3 million consumers. In
FY96, total energy available was 12,738 GWh, of which 8,745 GWh
were sold to ultimate consumers. Agriculture is the main consuming
sector (45%), followed by industry (23%) and domestic sector (19%).
In FY96, peak demand was about 2,840 MW. HSEB is not able to meet
that demand; in FY97 power shortages in the State have exceeded
25%. Load shedding is thus frequent; priority of supply is given to
agricultural consumers, especially during the two peak crop seasons.
2.      HSEB's generation is characterized by a low average plant
load factor (PLF) of about 45%-. The poor physical condition of
generating stations, the low quality of coal and irregularity of
supply (partly due to HSEB's poor payment record) are among the
main factors for this mediocre performance. System losses are
recorded at 32% but are more likely to be of the order for 40%.
3.      HSEB, like most other SEBs in India, is in a very difficult
financial situation, and for several years now has failed to meet
its investment needs. HSEB's management has tried to improve this
situation by increasing tariffs and improving efficiency of bill
collection. Tariffs have been revised at regular intervals, for
non-agricultural consumers: by about 14% in November 1990, 10% in



June 1992, 15% in December 1993, 209 in December 1994, and latest,
by about 21% in July 1996. Haryana is one of the very few states in
India where power supplied to agricultural consumers is charged at
above 50 paise/kWh. Collection, as a percentage of the revenue
billed during the year, is about 909.
Reform of Haryana's Power Sector
4.      GoH has informed the Bank of its decision to restructure and
substantially privatize its power sector. GoH's ultimate objective
is to withdraw from the power sector as an operator of utilities
and to establish commercially-operated utilities functioning in a
competitive and appropriately-regulated power market, with
significant private ownership and participation. GoH has formally
endorsed the reform policy (Cabinet meeting of 28 December 1995)
and sent a General Policy Statement to the Bank (January 1996)
confirming the above objectives.
5.      Haryana's power sector reform program involves: (i) the
restructuring of generation, transmission, and distribution into
separate services to be provided by separate companies; (ii)
incorporation of the new companies under the Companies Act; (iii)
corporatization and privatization of the entire distribution
system; (iv) private sector participation in generation and
transmission utilities (GENCO; TRANSCO); (v) competitive bidding
for new generation; (vi) development of an autonomous power sector
regulatory agency (Regulatory Commission); (vii) supply and end-use
efficiency improvements and enhanced environmental protection; and
(viii) reform of electricity pricing at the bulk supply,
transmission, and retail levels. A reform legislation (Haryana
Electricity Reform Bill) has already been approved by the State
Assembly and is awaiting Presidential Assent.
6.      The reform process upon which Haryana is prepared to embark
is complex. A variety of actions have to be carried out, in a
coordinated and consistent way. The establishment of a credible and
transparent regulatory framework is key for the success of
privatization of distribution. Changes in management culture and
attitudes are also essential. Improvement in the quality of power
supplied is needed for the acceptance of tariff adjustments.
The Program
7.      The Bank is prepared to support the reform efforts of GoH
with a series of Adaptable Program Loans, a new lending instrument
recently approved by Bank's Board of Directors. This approach would
include the following:
a.      The Bank would enter into a long-term agreement with
India and Haryana indicating that the Bank would be
ready to provide up to US$ 600 million assistance over
the next ten years through a series of loans to support
Haryana's power sector reforms, and stating the main
conditions under which the Bank's support would be provided;
- 2 -



b.      The first of the series of loans (US$ 60 million) would
be extended to facilitate the engagement of the reform
process. It would help the Government of Haryana (GOH)
to take the first steps in the reform agenda and
implement critically needed investments;
c.      Subsequently, three or four loans would be extended
based on progress achieved by Haryana in implementing
its reform program. The exact amount and timing of each
loan would be agreed between the Bank, India and
Haryana based on investment requirements and
implementation progress; and
d.      These operations would contribute mainly to financing:
(i) rehabilitation and expansion of the transmission
and distribution systems; (ii) demand-side management
initiatives; and (iii) technical assistance. Each
operation would be committed upon the completion of
milestones agreed between the Governments of India and
Haryana, and the World Bank.
The Project
8.      The first operation will be the proposed First Haryana Power
Sector Restructuring Project. The main thrust of this operation
will be to assist GoH in:
a.      Removing some very critical bottlenecks in transmission
and sub-transmission systems, which constrain the
availability of power;
b.      Improving the interfaces between HSEB (or its
successors) and consumers;
c.      Improving the quality of supply in carefully selected
areas to ensure maximum visibility and to demonstrate
the positive impact of the process initiated by Haryana; and
d.      Initiate implementation of the reform measures, and
prepare the next phases of the reform and investment programs.
9.      Components. Investments and services to be financed under the
proposed project will include:
a. High voltage transmission works (220 kV) to transport
power from the Nathpa Jhakri and NTPC (Faridabad) power
stations to Haryana's grid system;
b. High voltage transmission works (132 or 66 kV) to connect
up to ten small power stations for 25 MW each to the grid system;
c. Rehabilitation and expansion of the most critically
overloaded sub-transmission systems (33 kV), 11 kV
feeders, and their low tension service connections;
- 3 -



d. Procurement of meters, meter testing equipment and capacitors;
e. Procurement of distribution transformers, 11 kV circuit
breakers, LT molded circuit breakers, LT cable and
linesman's tools/plants and safety devices;
f. Establishment of a decentralized computerized billing
system for consumer revenue accounting;
g. Establishment of a computerized complaint system with
radio communication facilities so that complaints may be
dealt with more efficiently;
h. Procurement of utility vehicles to the line staff to
improve their mobility, and procurement of safety
equipment to reduce the presently very high rate of accidents; and
i. Technical assistance and engineering services to carry out
the above measures, start the institutional development of
the regulatory commission and the new power utilities, and
privatize the first distribution area.
10.     Present Status of the Project. HSEB and its consultant (Power
Grid Corporation of India) have prepared most of the bidding
documents for all of the above goods and works. Most of the bids
are expected to be invited by December, 1997. GOH and HSEB have
also requested Department for International Development (UK) / CIDA
(Canada) and USAID to contribute to supporting some of the
technical assistance activities. The project has been substantially
appraised in September 1997, and loan negotiations are expected to
take place by end November 1997.
11.     Financing. The total cost of the proposed project (including
IDC) is estimated at about US$ 77 million over the next two years,
which will be financed to the extent of US$ 60 million by the Bank.
The balance is expected to be financed by GoH/HSEB and bilateral donors.
12.     Project Implementation. The project will be implemented first
by HSEB and thereafter by HSEB's successor companies (TRANSCO,
GENCO and the distribution companies) when they are established.
Project Sustainability
13.     By implementing the power sector reform program outlined
above, Haryana can make its utilities commercially viable and
mobilize resources to finance the rehabilitation and expansion of
its power system. Investments in support of the reform program will
not only contribute to reducing today's power gap, but will also
create the basis for sustainable future growth of the system.
Closing the chronic supply-demand gap will benefit all electricity
consumers. GoH expects that the state's improved power supply
position will contribute to attract additional investment and
encourage existing industries to expand their production facilities.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations
- 4-



14.     Over the 1980s and up to the early 1990s, the Bank followed a
three-pronged strategy in its lending to the power sector in India.
It supported Government-owned agencies - NTPC in particular - as a
means of effecting sector-wide improvements. It financed a selected
number of SEBs whose management and state governments appeared to
be committed to revitalization, improving their performance in a
gradual fashion. In cooperation with IFC it financed existing
private power utilities and encouraged the Government to lower
entry barriers for new investors. The success of this strategy has
been uneven, reflecting fundamental sectoral weaknesses. Operations
with central and private utilities have been generally successful;
state-oriented activities have not. The revitalization of
institutionally and financially weak SEBs did not turn out to be
feasible. Projects in these states failed to meet expectations
beyond the physical construction of facilities and the Bank was
forced to take strong measures such as suspension of disbursements
and subsequently loan cancellation.
15.     Based on the lessons of the past, the Bank decided in 1993 to
lend its financial support only to those states that demonstrate a
commitment to implement a comprehensive reform of the their power
sector. The first state to move along these lines was Orissa. The
SEB has been unbundled and OHPC, the hydro power corporation, and
GRIDCO, the transmission company, have started operating on their
own. The privatization of distribution is under way. The Regulatory
Commission has been established and is now up and running. Although
it is too early to draw definite lessons about this operation, the
reform program in Haryana and the design of the proposed project
have benefited extensively from a close observation of this first
state power restructuring operation.
Environmental and Social Aspects
16.     The overall environmental impact of the reform program is
expected to be significantly positive. Electricity tariffs that
cover the supply costs, together with properly designed tariff
structures and improved metering and collection, will encourage the
efficient use of electricity. The proposed transmission and
distribution rehabilitation, DSM and technical assistance will
significantly reduce power losses, helping to contain environmental
emissions for the same level of electricity service. Investments in
the existing generating facilities will set these stations in
compliance with GoI environmental standards. The new generating
stations, anticipated to be financed by private investors in the
reformed power sector, will conform to GoI's environment standards.
These new grid generating stations will alleviate urban air
pollution by eliminating diesel self generation typically located
in densely populated urban areas. The investment program in
transmission (lines and sub-stations) will be designed and
implemented in accordance with environmental standards and
guidelines of the GoI and World Bank. The impact of this investment
program on land acquisition will be minimal; and will be mitigated
as per the Social Policy Framework under discussion between GoH and
the Bank.
-5-



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 24, 1997.
- 6 -



Annex
Environmental
Environmental Analysis: A Summary
1.      The environmental issues associated with the proposed project
are typical for transmission and distribution systems as defined in
Bank's Environment Source Book. Haryana State Electricity Board
(HSEB) follows strict procedures to comply with India's
environmental standards regarding transmission works (lines and
substations) and select options with minimal or no adverse
environmental and social impact. With the assistance of a Bank-
funded consultant, HSEB has carried out detailed environmental
analyses for 15 transmission lines and sub-stations (including the
lines and sub-stations to be funded by the proposed project); these
analyses, reviewed by the Bank, conclude that the construction of
the proposed transmission lines and sub-stations will have no
adverse environmental impact.
2.      The project is expected to have positive environmental
impacts through improved efficiency in supply and demand sides. The
design of lines and substations would incorporate safety features,
and their route/location be defined to minimize any adverse
environmental impact. In parallel, on the generation side, HSEB has
initiated the rehabilitation of the Panipat power station with a
private company with financing from KfW (Germany). Haryana has also
engaged a dialogue with KfW for financing the rehabilitation of the
Faridabad power station. In both cases, the rehabilitation will aim
at bringing the stations into compliance with environmental standards.
3.      In addition, by eliminating the supply curtailments, the
impacts associated with diesel self-generation (street level
emissions in densely populated commercial areas) will be largely
eliminated. GoH has agreed to strengthen the environmental
management capabilities of HSEB's successors. The project will
include a series of technical assistance activities, which will
include, when appropriate, components to improve the environmental
management capability of HSEB's successors.
- 7-



