Page  1
CONFORMED COPY                     
LOAN NUMBER 4271 IN
HSEB Project Agreement
(Haryana Power Sector Restructuring  Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HARYANA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
Dated January 16, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4271 IN
HSEB PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HARYANA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD (HSEB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India, acting by 
its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower 
an amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that HSEB agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by the Haryana Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank 
and the State of Haryana (Haryana), Haryana has undertaken certain obligations towards 
the Bank as set forth in the Haryana Project Agreement;
(C)
by the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between Haryana and 
HSEB, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement and made 
available to Haryana will be relent to HSEB on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(D)
the Bank has received a letter dated November 12, 1997 from Haryana 
enclosing a detailed policy statement approved by Haryana designed to restructure, 
reform and develop the power sector in Haryana (hereinafter the Reform Program or 
Program) and declaring Haryana’s commitment to the execution of such Program; and
Page  2
WHEREAS HSEB, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement  and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) HSEB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, and technical practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, HSEB shall at all times comply 
with the objectives, policies and procedures set out in the Social Policies and 
Procedures and the Resettlement Action Plan.
(c)
HSEB shall not finance any investment to evacuate power from the power 
stations referred to in Part A.1 (iii) of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement unless the 
relevant power project company undertaking the development of such power station has 
reached financial closure. Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Without prejudice to any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement HSEB shall take all such measures as may be necessary or required, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for assisting Haryana in performing Haryana’s obligations 
under Section 2.04 of the Haryana Project Agreement and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 2.04. (a) HSEB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, HSEB shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this 
purpose between the Bank and HSEB, a plan for the 
future operation of 
the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with HSEB on the said plan.
Section 2.05. HSEB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, HSEB shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. HSEB shall, with the participation of Haryana, by June 30, 1998 
submit to the Bank a detailed plan, agreed between its lenders and suppliers, for the 
Page  3
purpose of rescheduling HSEB’s overdue payables, current debt from lenders, debt 
service in default, and debt service falling due in FY 1999 and FY 2000.
Section 2.07. HSEB shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1998, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the bank, by March 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.08. (a) HSEB shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project and the Program, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
HSEB shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project and the 
Program, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by HSEB of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of HSEB
Section 3.01. HSEB shall:  
(a)
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial public utility practices under the supervision of qualified 
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers;  
(b)
at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and public 
utility practices; and  
(c)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV  
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) HSEB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
and to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Project.
(b)
HSEB shall:
(i)
have the said records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
Page  4
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such 
year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. HSEB shall take all such measures as may be necessary or required, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purpose of ensuring that it achieves the financial 
and operational targets set out in the Financial Restructuring Plan. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of HSEB 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify HSEB thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For HSEB:
Haryana State Electricity Board
Shakti Bhavan
Panchkula 134109
India
Fax:
Page  5
560087 or 560135
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of HSEB may be 
taken or executed by its Chairman or by such other person or persons as HSEB shall 
designate in writing, and HSEB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Regional Vice President
South Asia
HARYANA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
