Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4271 IN
Haryana Project Agreement
(Haryana Power Sector Restructuring  Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF HARYANA
Dated January 16, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4271 IN 
HARYANA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF HARYANA, acting by its Governor (Haryana).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India, acting by 
its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower 
an amount of sixty million dollars ($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Haryana agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to Haryana as provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(C) 
by the HSEB Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Haryana State Electricity Board (HSEB), HSEB has undertaken certain obligations 
towards the Bank as set forth in the HSEB Project Agreement; and 
(D)
the Bank has received a letter dated November 12, 1997 from Haryana 
enclosing a detailed policy statement approved by Haryana designed to restructure, 
reform and develop the power sector in Haryana (hereinafter the Reform Program or 
Program) and declaring Haryana’s commitment to the execution of such Program.
WHEREAS Haryana, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Haryana declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
cause HSEB to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under this Agreement, Haryana shall cause HSEB to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the HSEB Project Agreement all the obligations of HSEB therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable HSEB to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 2.02. (a) Haryana shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to HSEB under a 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between Haryana and HSEB under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, that HSEB shall pay interest 
on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a 
rate of not less than 13% per annum, and repay the principal amount so relent over a 
period of 18 years including therein a period of grace of 3 years and, that the 
foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
(b)
Haryana shall make available to HSEB without setting off any amounts that 
may be due to Haryana from HSEB, the proceeds of the Loan immediately as they are 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and made available to Haryana by the Borrower in 
respect of expenditures to be financed under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)
Haryana shall participate with HSEB in preparing and negotiating the plan 
referred to in Section 2.06 of the HSEB Project Agreement.
(d)
Haryana shall provide financial support to HSEB in accordance with the 
provisions of the Financial Commitment Letter to enable HSEB to achieve the financial 
and operational targets under the Financial Restructuring Plan.
(e)
Haryana shall, in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the 
Bank, establish and make operational a regulatory commission under the provisions of 
the Act referred to in Section 5.01 (e) of the Loan Agreement.
(f)
Haryana shall, by March 31 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, inform the Bank of the approved budget of the regulatory commission referred 
to in paragraph (e) of this Section for the following Fiscal Year. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. Without prejudice to any of its obligations under this Agreement, 
Haryana shall take all such measures as may be necessary or required, in accordance 
with a time schedule, satisfactory to the Bank, for publishing, making effective and 
implementing the transfer scheme referred to in Section 5.01 (f) of the Loan Agreement 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
Page  3
with the publishing, making effective and implementation of such transfer scheme.
Section 2.05. Haryana shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Haryana shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, 
abrogating or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. Haryana shall, with the participation of HSEB, by June 30, 1998 
submit to the Bank a detailed plan, agreed between HSEB’s lenders and suppliers, for 
the purpose of rescheduling HSEB’s overdue payables, current debt from lenders, debt 
service in default, and debt service falling due in FY 1999 and FY 2000.
Section 2.07. Haryana shall: (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 1998, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the bank, by March 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the 
Program and the completion of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 2.08. (a) Haryana shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project and the Program, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Haryana shall promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project and the 
Program, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Haryana 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Haryana shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
Haryana shall:
(i)
have the said records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, and accounts as well as the audit thereof as the 
Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  4
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Haryana 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Haryana thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Haryana:
Chief Secretary to the
 Government of Haryana
Chandigarh, India
Fax:
172540317
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Haryana may be 
taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or by such other person or persons as Haryana 
shall designate in writing, and Haryana shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF HARYANA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
