Page  1
December 17, 1997
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
INDIA: Japanese Grant Power Sector Reform Program
Grant No. TF 027165
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million dollars 
(US$1,000,000) (the Grant) to India (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lim by J. Chassard
Country Director
India
AGREED:
INDIA
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date: January 22, 1998
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to assist the Recipient in preparing power sector 
reform projects in selected States.  The technical assistance activities (the 
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
1.1
Review the progress and results of privatization of the electricity industry 
carried out in other countries and prepare a strategy for transferring the lessons and 
best practices relevant for the power sector in India.
1.2
Review the existing regulatory and institutional framework of the power sector 
in India and formulate recommendations and implementation strategies for:
Page  2
1.2.1
legal and regulatory reform taking into account available options for 
introducing changes;
1.2.2
setting bulk power tariffs; and
1.2.3
the future role and organizational structure of the Central Electricity 
Authority of India
1.3
Review the primary fuel supply options and interfuel substitution in connection 
with private power generation and prepare recommendations on:
1.3.1
the implications of the availabilities of various fuels; and
1.3.2
the economics of utilizing hydro carbon fuels.
1.4
Organize and conduct seminars and workshops to assist in preparing power sector 
reform programs in selected States of the Recipient.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1999.  
After that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, Pakistan on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any 
fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any 
portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
