               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                                                                                  86755
                        Intemational Development Association
                          International Finance Corportation
                      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                   CONFIDENTIAL                                                     EDS98-11
                                                                                              January 14, 1998

     Board Meeting of January 15,1998
     Statement by Juanita D. Amatong


         India - Country Assistance Strategy and Haryana Power Sector Restructuring Project



          We wish to express our strong support for both the CAS and the Haryana power project
    and want to praise Management and staff for the very high quality of this CAS.

    2.      We support the overall development strategy proposed in the CAS of strengthening
    public finances, further liberalizing the economy and increasing investment in infrastructure
    and in human resources, as well as the level and the sector distribution of the lending program.

    3.      The Government of India has made substantial progress in these areas since 1991, when
    the country started its deepest policy reforms since Independence. The fact that these reforms
    have been maintained despite four changes in government give us confidence that there is
    broad consensus to move ahead. By liberalizing the economy and reducing the economic role of
    government, the reforms are contributing to increase the overall efficiency of capital allocation
    and utilization, thus adding an important dimension to India's traditional development policy
    of maintaining high rates of savings and investment. The pay-off of the reforms have been
    impressive in terms of the very good macroeconomic performance of the last 6 years: strong
    GDP growth driven by private investment and exports, with rising national savings, stronger
    external position and with inflation kept under control. It is important, therefore, to keep the
    momentum and to address the remaining issues in the development agenda.

    4.       We concur with the CAS analysis that the most serious economic risk faced by India is
    its large public sector deficit, which could hinder the achievement of the targeted growth rate.
    It seems that the most efficient way to reduce this deficit is to phase out central and state
    governments subsidies to non-merit goods, which presently reach a high proportion of GDP.
    The proposed new strategy of increasing lending to reforming states with an aim of supporting
    fiscal, pricing and regulatory reforms maybe an important instrument towards achieving that
    goal. In large federal countries, public sector outcomes in terms of fiscal results, level and
    quality of public services are highly dependent on the performance of states. This seems to
                                                                                                   be
    particularly true in the case of India, where states are responsible for nearly half of public
    spending and for a third of the public sector deficit and have been slower to adjust than the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.
                                                         2

       central government. It is important, therefore, that state lending
                                                                           move away from a narrower
       project or even sector focus towards a broader overall state policy
                                                                             focus, with particular
       attention being paid to sound fiscal institutions, a responsible fiscal
                                                                               behavior and local capacity
       building, even if that means moving away from poor but non-reforming
                                                                                    states.
       5.      Another connected issue which, in our opinion, did not receive
                                                                                   a commensurate
       attention in the CAS is the role of India's large public enterprise
                                                                            sector and the prospects for
       reform and privatization there. We would like to listen staff's views
                                                                                on the prospects of
       privatization in India and other means for increasing efficiency
                                                                           and productivity of state-
       owned enterprises.

      6.       Considering the sector distribution of the lending program, it seems
                                                                                        that agriculture is a
      particularly important sector, and a difficult one, for the objectives
                                                                              both of accelerating growth
      and reducing poverty. It accounts for 28% of GDP and two-thirds
                                                                             of the labor force, while 80%
      of the poor reside in rural areas. Yet agriculture has been growing
                                                                             at a slower pace than GDP
      and is generating a per capitavalue added which is less than half
                                                                            the national average. Despite
      some liberalizing measures, it is still an excessively regulated sector,
                                                                                which relies heavily on
      subsidies that are fiscally difficult to sustain. Considering that nearly
                                                                                 16% of the lending
      program is going to agriculture, we would like to listen a more
                                                                          detailed staff's assessment on
      how the lending program could be used as an instrument to support
                                                                                needed policy and
      institutional reforms in this sector.

      7.      Regarding the level of lending, we strongly support the lending
                                                                                scenario which
      envisages an increase of IBRDprogram of around US$ 2.2 billion
                                                                         annually and the maintenance
      of IDA lending at US$ 855 million per year. We think that the existing
                                                                              macroeconomic
      conditions, the portfolio performance improvements, the still moderate
                                                                                concentration and the
      good creditworthiness indicators allow for such an increase of lending,
                                                                                while India's high level
      of poverty, indeed, call for it. We regret what has happened in the
                                                                           previous CAS period when,
      although macroeconomic indicators were better than expected,
                                                                       the Bank Group did not deliver
      as expected because of the collapse of IBRDlending due both to
                                                                        a small pipeline of projects and
      to slow progress of the policy dialogue in one specific sector.

       8.     Concerning the blend of lending, we do not favor the proposed
                                                                                   asymmetric link
       between IBRDand IDA lending which would call for a reduction
                                                                             in IDA commitments if IBRD
       lending has to be reduced due to unsatisfactory macroeconomic
                                                                           or sector reform performance.
       While significant gains have been made in poverty reduction, with
                                                                               the share of poor in the
       population declining from 45% to 35% from the 1950sto the present
                                                                                date, the absolute number
      of poor have actually almost doubled to over 300 million people.
                                                                            Per capitaincome is only US$
      350 and social indicators still lag those of other populous Asian
                                                                          countries. As indicated in the
      CAS, India is the country with the largest number of poor people
                                                                             in the world, even greater
      than the total of Africa. The projected level of IDA assistance is a
                                                                            mere US$ 1 per capitaa year,
      an already too low figure considering our proclaimed overarching
                                                                              objective of reducing
      poverty. Unsatisfactory sector reform can arise, for instance, due
                                                                           to the behavior of some state
      governments as it was the case in the previous CAS, whereas weaker
                                                                                 macroeconornic
      performance may be induced by external factors, a plausible hypothesis
                                                                                    in the present Asian
      economic scenario. We fail to understand why these events should
                                                                              penalize other social sectors.
      Besides, due to lack of concessional funding, we know that IDA allocations
                                                                                        tend to be rigid, so
      that once a change in the IDA shares is made, it is difficult to be
                                                                          reversed. We would ask staff to




Mu'
                                                 3

reconsider this asymmetric link and, if this is not accepted, would like to listen what is the
rationale.

9.      We support the plan to make substantial use of the new instrument of Adaptable
Program Loans in lending to states and to the power sector. Hopefully, this new instrument
should provide a small initial financial assistance and allow sufficient time needed to build
consensus and create ownership for long term comnnitments, while signaling a firm Bank
intention to extend additional financial support if those conditions materialize. We also support
the plans to strengthen the project pipeline and to spread its coverage into the new sectors.
                                                                                              This
should help to avoid the situation experienced in the previous CAS when lack of progress
                                                                                             in a
specific sector led to a failure to deliver in the IBRDlending program

10.    We are pleased with the improvements in portfolio performance achieved in FY 1997,
with the disbursement ratio rising above the Bank's worldwide average, both the ratios of
problem projects and projects at risk been halved and the average implementation period
reduced, and hope that these improvements can be consolidated.

11.     Concerning the IFC program, we support the proposed increase up to US$ 400 million
annually and the sector concentration on infrastructure, financial sector, agribusiness and
                                                                                             the
export sector. We are pleased that IFC is strongly supporting privatization efforts, as we think
there is much to be gained from efforts in this area. We would also like to encourage that
                                                                                            IFC's
program in the agribusiness sector is used as an instrument to support reform in agriculture as
mentioned earlier.

12.     Finally on gender concems. The Poverty Assessment Report pointed to the dismal social
indicators for girls and women especially in health and education. We are pleased to see that
strategic actions on primary education for girls, on matemal and child health services with the
view to reducing population growth, access of women to rural finance and to employment
opportunities are being addressed by the CAS. We would like to see improvement in the
                                                                                          social
indicators for women once the three-year timetable of the present CAS is evaluated.
