             InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
                      InternationalDevelopmentAssociation                                     86754
                        InternationalFinanceCorportation
                    MultilateralInvestment GuaranteeAgency

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                 CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                     EDS98-7
                                                                                           January      14, 1998


   Board Meeting of January 15,1998
   Statement by Khalid Alyahya

                             India: Country Assistance Strategyand
                         HaryanaPower Sector RestructuringProject (APL)

          The opportunity to review a full CAS for one of the Bank's most important clients is
   always welcome. As recent discussion in the informal CODE Subcommittee confirmed, this
   year's CAS for India is a significant and in many respects a landmark document, given the
   changed and indeed ambitious nature of the proposed three-year lending program.

               Developments:
   Macroeconomic

           It is encouraging to read in paragraph 6 that almost all the macroeconomic indicators
   are better than projected in the 1995 CAS. Particularly noteworthy is the sustained and
   impressive growth rate of GDP following the stabilization crisis at the start of this decade. This
   is essential for a low-income economy such as India, which still contains the largest number of
   poor people in the world, and with many more uncomfortably close to the poverty line who
   could fall below it if economic growth were to falter. Other points worth noting include the
   encouraging growth of exports since 1995 and the increased contribution of private investment.
   All of this follows from the ongoing structural reforms in investment, trade and finance. For
   their persistence at a measured pace with the challenging reform process successive Indian
   authorities again deserve commendation. In today's global environment, it is in everyone's
   interest that this significant economy continues to move forward and capture its considerable
   potential.

          Having noted the progress made, it is also essential to recognize the considerable
   remaining challenges, of which the Indian authorities are of course well aware. High priority
   needs to be given to tackling the persistent public sector deficit, especially at the state level,
   without further postponement of needed public investment, as well as to improving the
   regulatory environment and deepening reforms in public sector enterprises and in the public
   banks. Such reforms have to be carried out in a complex political and constitutional
   environment, with the states moving at different paces, while maintaining the overall
   momentum needed to improve social development indicators.

         Of course, a supportive external environment will facilitate this process, and a
   weakened external environrnent could threaten it. There is a brief consideration of the
This documenthas a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipientsonly in th
perfonnance
          of theirofficialduties. Its contentsmay not otherwise
                                                              be disclosedwithout
WorldBank authorization.
                                                 2


downside risks in paragraphs 15-20, but in the light of the current Asian crisis, further
elaboration or tentative updating by staff would be appreciated especially as regards
competitive and other pressures on Indian exports, and how they might affect the projections
shown in Table 3 and in Annex 8. On the other hand the encouraging showing so far by
foreign direct investment, the conservatism regarding reversibility of portfolio investments,
and the limited exposure to short-term obligations, all offer some grounds for reassurance in
the Indian case.

Some Lessons of ExperienZce:

       The discussion in paragraphs 24-28 is frank and informative, but there are two issues
which in our view deserve special attention as this Chair had flagged them when reviewing the
1995 CAS. The first issue is the effect of the 15 percent cut in the Bank's Indian program
administrative budget over FY95-97which is noted in paragraph 26, and which, in retrospect,
seems to have had an unfortunate effect on project pipeline development which was not
adequately foreseen at the time. However, paragraph 70 indicates that lessons have been
learned from this experience, and that the Bank's response capacity has now been enhanced
under the Strategic Compact.

        The second issue is the regrettable collapse in infrastructure lending, for which high if
not excessive hopes were held in 1995, and the related lack of activity in the urban sector, which
was expected by now to have witnessed a comprehensive process of urban reform. Some
comfort is given in that the welcome process of national consultation mentioned in paragraph
23 of the present CAS specifically criticized the Bank for its withdrawal from the urban sector
and for its limited involvement in addressing infrastructure bottlenecks, and that the Bank is
now prepared to respond accordingly.

77we
   Proposed Strategjy:

        Turning now to the proposed strategy, we note and welcome the recognition that the
Bank, even if it is India's major external development partner, must be selective (implying
trade-offs) and be complemented by the work of others. The references to other assistance in
the last column of the Program Matrix in Annex 1, though rather cryptic and silent as to the
relative weights of assistance, are nonetheless a step in the right direction.

       We have some selective comments on the strategic dimensions suggested in Section E.
of the CAS, followed by some general remarks on the volume of support and the IBRD/IDA
composition.

         On the proposed greater focus on lending to states, we note this represents a radical shift,
inasmuch as the proportion of central lending will fall from 61 percent to 27 percent, while on-
lending to states will rise to 73 percent, of commitments. Further, it is suggested in the
Executive Summary of the CAS that this selectivity may lead to an end of lending in states
where conmmitmentto reform does not exist. However, in Annex 1 it is noted that in non-
reformning states where the incidence of poverty is high, and project implementation
satisfactory, some pilot activities could continue. Given the poverty burden in many states,
and the Bank's overarching objective of poverty reduction, this appears appropriate and some
flexibility will be needed in this regard. Overall, a consensus-building approach, with less
stress on "trying to impose conditions on reluctant clients" as paragraph 30 puts it, may well
                                                  3

 reap better dividends in terms of development outcomes
                                                              over the long term. There are also
 some downside risks as identified in the document,
                                                              including the potential for over-
 concentration and possible policy reversals given the relatively
                                                                    short electoral cycles. Use of
 the new adaptable program loans (APLs) may mitigate
                                                             some of these risks, but the overall
 situation will need careful monitoring over the next three
                                                            years.
         On the substantive areas for policj reformn,
                                                    the focus on rural development, power, and
 the re-entry to the urban sector are appropriate in light
                                                           of poverty reduction objectives and the
 need to facilitate broad-based growth. The challenges nonetheless
                                                                       remain formidable. On the
 related subject of primany htealt1hand education the renewed emphasis is especially welcome.
 Noting the proposed involvement of IFC in the private
                                                                  provision of social services as
 mentioned at the end of paragraph 56, we wonder
                                                             if there is an opportunity for IFC
 involvement in the education sector as well as in health care.
                                                                  Some comments from IFC would
 be appreciated on this point.

         On the environment, the focus on poverty-environment
 However, the third bullet in paragraph 51 which attempts            local linkages is welcome.
                                                               to address global issues in a few
 words is confusing and unlikely to fully satisfy anyone.
                                                             Nonetheless, the statement that the
 social costs of local air pollution outweigh any global
                                                         environmental costs is compelling. We
 remain of the view that well-chosen efforts to address
                                                           local environmental issues are more
 likely to attract consensus at this Board than are perhaps
                                                               premature attempts to introduce
 global themes.

       On the focus on private and financial sector development
                                                                        events in Asia have amply
demonstrated the need for sustainable long-term private
                                                               investment flows and appropriate
linkages to capital markets and an efficient financial sector.
                                                                It is to be hoped that the plans for
an engagement by all members of the Bank Group according
                                                                   to their comparative advantages
can indeed be brought to fruition in the specific Indian
                                                         context.
        Finally on the CAS, on the volume and compositionof
                                                                  thte
 reaction is that this is indeed ambitious, given the anticipated proposed lending program our
                                                                     more than doubling of IBRD
 commitments in FY98. This of course has creditworthiness
                                                                 implications as recognized in the
document. The holding of IDA funding at a relatively
                                                          constant level, somewhat below that of
earlier years, indeed indicates a hardening of blend
                                                           terms. It must be recalled that the
performance of India's IDA projects has been above average
                                                                 in all respects, according to OED.
In our view, this situation will underline the need for scarce
                                                                IDA resources in the coming years
to be used where they will have maximum general impact
                                                              for poverty reduction, and not to be
used for experimental purposes -- certainly not as in the
                                                           past for "gap-filling" exercises related
to the Global Environment Facility.

         Overall, however, a key factor is that the program
                                                                   responds to the Government's
request for increased assistance to support its development
                                                              strategy of accelerated growth with
equity, and we can support it. Though careful monitoring
                                                            and some flexibility will be required
in this new environment, we hope that the objectives of
                                                         the Base Case scenario can be achieved,
if not exceeded. We wish all concerned well in
                                                        successfully implementing a new and
cooperative strategy designed to take India into the new
                                                          millennium.
                                                 4




Harjyana
       Pow7er
            SectorRestructuringProject-ProposedAdaptableProgramLoan(APL):
         We welcome this new instrument, and pleased that the
                                                                 procedures adopted for
subsequent "follow-on" APLs are in line with those we
                                                      and others had suggested when the
initial proposals were presented to CODE.

        We also welcome the specific application of this loan
                                                                       to address infrastructural
bottlenecks in the power sector, which is fully in line with
                                                               CAS objectives. The challenges of
doing this should not, of course, be underestimated but we
                                                              are prepared to give this first APL a
chance to prove itself. Some of the issues involved were
                                                              noted in the informative Technical
Briefing held earlier this week. We would just like to stress
                                                              that in our view the contribution of
OED's independent evaluation of this and the follow-on
                                                            loans under existing procedures will
offer a good opportunity to feed back lessons of experience
                                                             into subsequent activities.
