            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                     International Development Association                                    86756
                        International Finance Corportation
                   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                 FOR OFFICLALUSE ONLY
                                CONFIDENTIAL                                                      EDS98-16
                                                                                            January 15,1998


   Board Meeting of January 15, 1998
   Statement by Andrei Bugrov

                             India: Country Assistance Strategy and
                    APL for the Haryana Power Sector Restructuring Project


          We support the proposed joint Bank-IFC Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of
   India and commend the Staff for the preparation of this important document.

           In our view, the suggested World Bank Group strategy and sectoral orientation of the
   lending program broadly correspond to the country's development goals and objectives. In
   particular, we firmly endorse the proposed increase in IBRD lending in response to the
   Government's request to expand Bank Group support for India's pursuit of accelerated growth
   with equity. We also welcome the expected expansion of the IFC program in India, encourage
   further exploration of opportunities for MIGA and IBRD guarantee operations, and anticipate a
   significant improvement of non-lending services in terms of their operational relevance,
   timeliness and cost-effectiveness.

           It is praiseworthy that in the course of its preparation the CAS has undergone a very
    extensive consultation process with the participation of government officials at all levels,
    academia, private sector and NGOs. I welcome the incorporation into the new strategy of the
    OED and other evaluation findings, as well as lessons learned from past experience of CAS
    implementation, particularly in the power sector and infrastructure.

            I am pleased to see that the new CAS for India has benefited in many respects from the
    changes under the Strategic Compact and the Renewal Program, and, as a result, the Bank
    Group will possess an increased ability to respond speedily, intensively and effectively to the
    challenges of India's development agenda. I believe that the proposed adaptable program loan
    (APL) for the Haryana Power Sector Restructuring Project (which is accompanying this CAS) is
    the first good manifestation of the beginning of a practical realization of these new abilities. We
    support this operation and are very hopeful that APL will prove to be an effective instrument in-
    terms of responsiveness to the client's needs and the continuity of Bank support to long-term
    development programs.


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.                 _,_
                                                   2

        We are pleased to note a remarkable improvement in the performance of India portfolio
in the last fiscal year, including an increase in the ratio of disbursement above the
                                                                                        bank average,
significant reductions in the ratio of problem projects and the ratio of projects at risk.
                                                                                            Clearly, to
a large extent, this turnaround was made possible due to a field-based portfolio
                                                                                         management
system which was established in Delhi in FY97. I expect that a greater leadership
                                                                                           by national
professional staff in the field, as well as other new portfolio management initiatives,
                                                                                            which are
mentioned in Box 4, will be very helpful in ensuring an improved quality of the ongoing
                                                                                              and new
IBRD/IDA projects.

        Despite the obvious decline in poverty incidence and improvement in social indicators,
about 320 million Indians today are below the poverty line, almost as many
                                                                                    as the entire
population of the country at the time of independence. This makes continued large-scale
                                                                                              Bank
support to India on the poverty alleviation front absolutely necessary. We welcome
                                                                                         the strong
emphasis in the CAS on investment in human capital and improving the effectiveness
                                                                                        of poverty
alleviation programs, as well as increasing attention to rural and urban development,
                                                                                             which
create employment and income opportunities for the poor. At the same time,
                                                                                      it would be
interesting to learn about the volume of operations earmarked for targeted poverty
                                                                                   interventions.
       As the CAS paper notes, the decline in poverty in India has been uneven among
                                                                                              the
individual states and correlated with investments in human development and infrastructure,
                                                                                               as
well as in agricultural growth. At the same time the suggested strong focus of the
                                                                                    new strategy
on the few reforming states virtually means the exclusion of many of the poorest
                                                                                     states from
IBRD/IDA lending. While I agree that there are very sensible and convincing arguments
                                                                                         in favor
of the Bank Group's high selectivity, I remain concerned about the possible
                                                                                        negative
implications which the proposed approach could have in terms of amplifying existing
                                                                                          serious
economic and social disparities among the states. I would be very interested
                                                                                   to hear Staff
comments on this issue.

        I regret to say that the proposed Bank Group CAS does not seem to me -- if you
                                                                                            pardon
the expression --"joint" enough. In my view, while Annex 1 "Country Program
                                                                                         Matrix" is
rather informative in presenting an overall picture of the World Bank Group's
                                                                                     planned inter-
agency division of labor and cooperation, the main text of the document does not
                                                                                     go far beyond
identifying sectors and areas of joint activity. In general, I expected the new Indian
                                                                                       CAS to have
a more prominent joint strategic framework and be more explicit about the various
                                                                                      aspects of the
combined efforts of different institutions of the Group.

        After several decades of strong emphasis on central planning and extensive state
                                                                                              control
over the means of production, India has recently changed its development course
                                                                                         and started
liberalizing its economy and reducing the economic role of the government. Therefore,
                                                                                            it would
be appropriate to devise and incorporate into the CAS a lucid Private Sector Strategy
                                                                                          (PSS). In
our view, its main building blocks should include: (i) the results of a thorough assessment
                                                                                                of the
existing Indian private sector and its abilities to lead a rapid, socially and
                                                                                   environmentally
sustainable economic growth; (ii) a clear vision of the roles of the central and state
                                                                                       governments
in eliminating constraints on the private sector and promoting its sound development;
                                                                                             (iii) the
analysis of the main issues of privatization; (iv) an integrated agenda for the
                                                                                     Bank Group's
                                                3

private sector assistance; (v) plans of coordination
                                                     of individual efforts of IBRD, IDA, IFC,
MIGA and EDI, and their closer cooperation, including,
                                                       in my view, possible and very promising
joint projects and programs.

        In conclusion, I would like to reiterate our overall support
                                                                     for the proposed CAS and wish
the Indian authorities every success in attaining the objectives
                                                                   of accelerated economic growth
with equity.
