Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-5862-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN N AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400 MILLION
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
JANUARY 25, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report (N!o. :P- 5862-AR      Tvpe: (PR)
Title:  FINAlNCIAL SFCTOR ADJUSTMENT LO
Auuthor: STEFAN Al.BER
Ext. :30C16 Room:I 61555 DeDt. :LA4Tr
This document has a resticted d;stribution and may be wsed by recipients only in the performance of
tbeit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency ArMgntne Unit - Peso
Since April 1, 1991, the exchange rate has been, by law, Peso 1.00 = US$1.00
Fiscl Year
J-  ;a  1 - December 31
Princi^al Abbreviations and Acrnm s:
AFP        Administradores de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones   -    Pension Fund Administrators
BANADE  Banco Nacional de Desarrollo                         -    National Development Bank
BCRA       Banco Central de la Repaiblica Argentina          -    Argentine Central Bank
B1N        Banca Hipotecario Nacional                        -    National Housing Bank
BNA        Banco de la Nacion Argewina                       -    Argentine National Commercial Bank
BPBA       Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires             -    Bank of the Province of Buenos Aires
CAJA       Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguro                  -    National Savings and Insurance Bank
CNV        Comisi6n Nacional de Valores                      -    National Securities Commission
DDSR                                                         -    Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DGI        Direccidn General de Impuestos                    -    National Tax Authority
EFF                                                          -    Extended Fund Facility
ESW                                                          -    Economic and Sector Work
FONAVI   Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda                       -    National Housing Fund
GDP                                                          -    Gross Domestic Product
IDB                                                          -    Inter-American Development Bank
IFC                                                          -    International Finance Corporation
IMF                                                          -    International Monetary Fund
LIBOR                                                        -    London Interbank Offerred Rate
PE                                                            -    Public Enterprise
PERAL                                                        -    Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment
Loan
PEREL                                                         -    Public Enterprise Reform  Execution
Loan
PSRL                                                         -    Public Sector Reform Loan
PSRTAL                                                       -    Public  Sector  Reform   Technical
Assistance Loan
SECAL                                                        -    Sector Adjustment Loan
SEF        Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras         -    Superintendency of Banks
SSIMTAL                                                      -    Social Sector Management Technical
Assistance Loan
VAT                                                          -    Value Added Tax



FOR OFCIAL US ONy
ARGENTINA
FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTNDWT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pag No,
I.    COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK ASSITANCE STRATEGY  ............... 1
A. Recent Perfrmance ...............                                                 I
Origins of Macroenomic Istability and Decin e..
Structural djustment, Stabiliation and Bank Support ................ 2
B. Argentina's Extna Environment.                                                   6
C.   The Bank's Comtry Assistance Stategy.                           .              7
Argentna's Development Objecives and Eted Financing Requirements ... 7
Bank Assistance: Objecdves and Activities ......     ................  11
Levels of Bank Assistance and Relons with Other Creditors ....   ....... 20
Issues for the Lending Staegy .............................. 22
II.   TaEFINANCIAL SECrOR   ...... .. ......................... *.*.                     23
A.   Resource Mobilzation ........................................ 23
B.   Ihe Banking System   ........................................ 26
The Central Bank       ...................................... 26
PublicBas ......................................... 26
Private Banks and Bank Supervision ......    ..................... 28
Capitl Markets ........................................ 29
mI.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REiORM PROGRAM  ... ..............    29
A. Overview   ..29
B.   Reduced Involvement of the Public Sector in Banking  .        .30
C.   Strengtiened Bankdng Sector and Bank Supervisory Framework  .     .32
D. Revitalzaion of the Capitl Market           ..33
E. Fiscal Impact of Refrm Meures    ...34
IV. T* HE PROPOSED LOAN  ..........3.. .................. .                              35
A.   Background  ..........         ...... ...............                         35
B.   Loan Amount, Borrower and IlementingAgency                   ..                35
C. LoanConditions ............... 35
D. Disbursemen Procrment, Audit..t                                                 38
E.  Benefit and Ris                ......................... 38
V.   RECOhl MENDATION  ... 4...... .........*G**4*4*.*****4***4   39
'h pou is bad oa te flnda of  Appa  Mssi of I .   SMissio nmamb Icludms. S. Aba dOom Load. ad Tas ManeSsO. M.
Cad. (otl Econois). C. FPot (Tiil Analyst), D. Sott enior FInancial Ssislls), D. Cadam  Boommls4 Reside Ofce Agm, P. Doty
(Ihu ft     u )S,posltoauta),andM. Lab. PubflloBankSpeasia.Cnaultsnt.  spot ta y  C. Css and L. NaU. M
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annexes:
I.    MattixofFinanalSeCtDRefom Poliicies  ...........................  40
H.   DoveopmetPolicy Ltter              ................................ 42
m.  Key Maraoeconomicndicators          ................................ 49
IV.  Banco delaNaci6nArgentina          ................................ 50
V.   Analysis of Basco Naona iotecario ............... ......  52
VI.  CajaNadond deAhorfoySegr  ................................ 56
VJ. Deposit Protection ................................ 64
VIIL  PfoincalBak  .............................                         ...  ...... 71
IX.  SuplemetaryLoan DataSheet ................................  77
X.   StatementofBank Loans              ................................ 78
XM.  StaterentofWC lvestmets            ................................ 79
XH. Poficy ssuesinProosdFY93-97L fdtg   .......................... 80



- i '
ARGENTIA
IlINANCLIAL SECT(R ADREDOT LOAN
Lo and fa=m &Imma
Ign.ro.wm:      The Argeaine Republic
Bolar:           I-The Argentine Republic
Amount:         US$400 million equivalent
Temm:           Repayable in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable rate.
Qbjec¢tves:     The proposed loan, another building block of the Bank's support for the
Government's ambitious stmuctra adjustment program, will assist in: (i) reducing
the role of the state in the financial sector, (ii) strngthening the banking sector and
its supervisory framework, and (iii) providing resourcer for Argentina's debt and
debt service reduction arrangements.
lfi* and
ifka:           T.he major benefits of the financial sector reform progtam include: (i) a more
competitive private banling system which is expected to improve resource
mobilization and to increase the efficiency of resource allocation, and (ii) fiscal and
quasi-fiscal savings as a result of the reduced role of public banks, including the
Central Bank. Indirectly, provincial banks will be encouraged to restructure, close
or privatize, thus genating provincial savings and lessening pressures on any
emergency fibancing by the Federal Government and/or Central. Bank. The major
risk is a return to economic instability that would undermine a reform program still
vulnerable to shifts in confidence. Instability, and accompanying inflation, could
slow the renewed growth of private banks, affect the strengthening of the capital
market and dim the prospects of restruring/priatzation of national and provincial
banks. A furter risk is the bureaucratic lehargy which could affect the progress in
the institutional reform of the Central Bank and Superintendency of Banks. Popular
support for the goal of macroeconomic stabilty, and the instruments being employed
to achieve it, and the strong support of the Bank in respect of institional reforms
mitigate against these risks in the short/medium term.
EFitmated
Disbursements:   The loan would be disbursed in three tranches. Additionally, there would be a set-
aside of up to US$200 mfillion to provide resources for Argentna's debt and debt
service reduction arrangements.  Funds not needed for set-asides would be
reallocated to the First Tranche. If all of the US$200 million are required for set-
asides, the First Tranche would amount to US$5 million. The Second Tranche is set
at US$95 million and the Third Tranche at US$100 mfllion. l1e First Tranche and
any set-asides would be available upon effctiveness. The Second and Third
Tranches would be disbursed as and when the respective conditions have been met.
Retroactive financing is proposed for 20% of the loan amount excluding set-asides.



- ii -
nkhmm,mt                                    _ US$ Million
Bank FY               '93        94       9
Annual                205        95       100
Cumulative            205       300      400
Rate
Retun:                Not applicable



REPORT AND RECOMMINDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPIENT
TO THE ECIV DIRECRS ON A
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUsNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400 MIUON
TO THE ARGENT1NE RIEBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommedaton on a proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$400
million to support reforms in the financial sector and to provide resources for Argentinais debt
and debt semce reduction arrangements. The loan would be at the Bank's stdard vaiable
interest rate, with a maturity of 15 years, including 5 years of grace. The Export-Import Bank
of Japan is cofinancig this adjustment loan in an amount of US$200 million equivalent
PART L COUNTRY IPOLICIES AND BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Recent Perfonnance
Orgins of Macroeconomic Instabity and Deline
2. During a half century of slow economic growth, Argentina gradually fell from the ranks
of the world's most prospou nations. This weak performance can be traced mainly to an
increased reliance since the 1940s on a stategy of state-led growth, with assocated chronic
public sector deficits and endemic inflaton. Economic policy was used all too frequently to
pwpge rules and tnsfers favoring the interests of successive groups with access to power-
unionized labor, privileged indusialists, hvusing conttors and selected middle class home
buyers, some pwvincidal governments, and the military. Public expenditu  surpassed 50
percent of GDP, and high levels of etenal pre       compounded the misallocation of
resources.
3.    The abrupt end of voluntary foreign commercial credit in the early 1980s and the sudden
rise in real inteonal interest rates, coupled with the effects of the 1982 South Atlantic War,
provoked a financial colapse that forced the Government to assume responibility for all foreign
debt-placig addiXtonal pressure on public finances. Ihe loss of extevia finance and the
negative impact of inflaton on real revenue collection led the Treasury to resort increasingly to
money creaion. The private sector, in an effort to avoid the inflation tax, gradually withdrew
it resources from the fimancial system and reduced its real holdings of currncy.  The
1     The Eecuve Directors havo   rceived recnt -pdates on th   oeconoc situatioa in Pant I of the
Preddens Report on ot Debt and Debt-Service Reduction Lon (P-5914-AR dated Deembe 11, 1992



-2-
macroeconomy became progressvely more unsable, and by the mid-1980's the country entred
its longest period of stagnition of any ime in this century. Saving and investment rates fell
as Argentines increasingly saved and invested abroad. Labor productivity fell, poverty
worsened, and high and unprediktable infladon became the main impediment to the rcvery of
private savings and investment. .By the late 1980's, subsidies through the budget, tax
exemptions, agricultural regulations, public enteprises, and cental bank rediscounts were
estimatd to amount to roughly 8 percent of GDP; average tariffs exceeded 40 pert; and
quantitative restrictions protected some 60 percent of domestic production.
Structural Adjustment, Stabatlou and Bank Suppnrt
4.    The Menem Govcrnment took ofice in July 1989, as montily inflation hit 200 percent
and the economy was in the throes of a decade-long stagnation. The new adminitation
recognized that reversing Argentina's economic decline required profound structual reform to
eliminate the chronic fiscal deficits that were driving inflation. The Government had to
downsize and divest itself of non-core functions of the public sector to reduce the deficit and
release resources for private development. Finally, it had to end regulaty and other policies
that had stifled private investment. Improvng the fiscal position would then create space to
regularize mounting arrears with creditors and reestablish Argentina's creditworthiness. The
Bank has helped the Government develop and implement specific policies towards achieving
these ends through an intensive program of economic and sector work (ESW)2 and adjustment
lending.
5.    Structa  reforms of the federal government and the monetary authority were
supported by the Bank's Public Sector Refonn Loan (PSRL, US$325 million, July 1991),
cofinanced by the Inter-American Development Bank, and the complementary TaxAdmiraion
Technical Assistance Loan (US$6 million, January 1989) and Publ Sector Rebfonn Tedmiail
Assisance Loan (US$18 million, July 1989). Under these loans, the Government enacted major
reforms affecting revenue mobffization, expenditures, and iiaancing of the public secr. The
VAT was extended to virtually all sectors in 1989-90. Tax rolls were reconsucted and tax
administration was improved substanfally, producing greater revenues. Taxes on exports and
bank checks were eiminated or reduced. Tax subsidies to industral finns were brought under
fiscal control and reduced. New expenditure controls were enacted, and discretionary transfs
to the provinces and to public enterprises were reduced. The Government cut the size and scope
of the federal public administion-including a net retrenchment of positions of about 15
percent and transfer of about 40 percent more to the provinces-while modernizing the civil
sevice. A Law of Public Financial Management, passed by Congress in September 1992, recag
the basis for budgeting, internal control and auditing. Simultaneously, the Government re-
established the monetary authority as a force for price stability. First, it eliminated the quasi-
fiscal deficit of the Central Bank by a forced conversion of short-term, high-interest deposits into
Studies prepared for the new Govermet include Soda Sea= I CinS (1988), Tax Poliy r
.Stabia  D(1989), Reform fir Pice Sabt and Grot (1989), and Prvinda Gownt Ace
(199), as well as setora tudies on agiculte, idustry, enr, transporta, and wat.



-3 -
long-term dollar, bonds (caled BON) bearing LIBOR-based rates in January 1990; this
reduced confidence in the finail sector, but ended the destabiliing pactiwe of Central Bank
money creation to cover its own inteest losses on masive shrt-term debt  Then, the
ConvertibilitY Law (paa. 9) established a new monetary policy regime as of April 1991. The
passge of the Centrl Bank Cat in September 1992, reinforced the Coverbility Law and
paves te way for an indepdent, disciplined monetary authority. A  cmmendaton on the
rdease of the second tranche of the PSRL is exected shordy.
Fed"d Eipl@meMa/t0                               Te Revesu
Pw.md
000.000                                  30.00
600.00                                    2 6.0o
700.000
500000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
4000_ = £ > _ = - U                                             _, l25.00
10.00
200,000                                   00
100.000
i I I g I  OEfffoi Tae UTaxHn ss  OsawSAAy
,1   N it a   4 hi r U i   Ad  t b m I p g .   _ d _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
6.    The Government aLso undertook a ma,jor privatizaon progm, supported by the
Ban's PUblic Eipnrse r)rimAduswnemtLoan (PMRAL I, US$300 million in February 1991).
Initial laws enacted by the Menem   Govenment suspended costy subsi    and provided
authity to pivatize vtly aU public enteprises. The meas of 1990-sale of the airline
md tepbone system, concession of some hydrocarbon deposits, and deglaon of the
hydrocarbon sector-let much-needed early credbility to d  development srtegy.  The
privatiton amprogm  continues, affectns the railways, the stte oil and gas companies, the
power and water cmpni, ports, and the merchant fleet. Two tawhes of the Bank's loan
have been released; the third is expected soon. The Government alo recently began to privatze
90 percent of the enteie assets controlled by the Ministy of Defnse; these span the steel,
petrochemil, and ms industries, and are suppoted by the PERAL H (US$300 million in
January 1993).3
3     For a mor  lea}ed disuo Sme t Predents Reprt on te Scond PUbLiC ntpre R1om Loan (p-
5811-AR), dased DecOmbe 10, 1992.



-4 -
7.   To further Improve lpipeves for private investven, the Govemment continued to
accelerate trade liberalization, an effort begun in 1987 with the support of two Trde Policy
Loans (1987 and 1988, toaling US$600 million). Export taxes were eliminat  and indirect
tax reimbursements for exports established;
quantitative  import  restrictions  wer
removed except for automobiles; speific
import duties were abolished, and the anti-
LeeL of Extena Protectn       dumping regime brought in line with the
70                                     respective GATI Code; the maximum ad
60  QWltt                              valorem  tarff rate was reduced to 20
50                                  percent.    Beginning  in  1991,  the
AVmu gTaTitfb.                   Government also initiated a program  of
40                                     dergulation by ending restrictions on the
30                                     s'ipply and marketing of numerou goods
and  services,  including  professional,
transport and port services, thus reducing
10                                     significantly the costs of doing business in
o _                                      _> 1 ,-     1, " Argentina.  Legislation increasing labor
a   I   I   I   a   a              flexibility  and  improving  collective
_       -tovm    bi-               bargaining has been enacted, and further
legislation is pending.
8.     Once the fiscal situation permitted, the Government initiated steps to reestablish
Argentina's creditworthiness in private markets. It ended the suspension of debt service
payments in April 1988, and in June 1990 began making partidal payments to the commercial
banks. This paved the way for a debt agreement in 1992 that reduced the commercial bank debt
by abow 37 percent. the World Bank supportad this ffort mith a Debt and Debt Serice
Reducton Loan (US$450 million, January 1993) and set-a3ides of US$100 million in the PERAL
H and up to US$200 million in the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
Simultaneously,the Government took steps to end the mounting arrears with pensioners,
suppliers, and the health system, as well as to compensate taxpayers for changes in the loss
carry-forward provisions of the income tax, through a new domestic bond (BOCON)
denominated in foreign or domestic currency at the option of the recipient. These measures have
increased its domesfic debt from about US$23 billion at end-1991 to about US$18 billion at end-
1992. Funds from the privatization of the state oil company are intended to be used for
repurchasing a major part of these bonds.
9.    To bring inflaton under control, a major stabilization program began in February 1991.
The effort inherited the best initial condition of any stabilization program during the 1980s: by
that time the fiscal accounts were in near balance, the Government could collect taxes and
control subsidies to public enterprises, and liquid international reserves were five times greater
than the average for programw begun in the 1980s. The program was designed around new tax
measures and expenditure controls that raised the fiscal surplus to a level obviating the need for
inflation financing. Monetary policy was disciplined by the April 1991 Convertibility Law that



legally fixed the exchange rate at one peso to the US dollar, formally deindexed contrcts,
facilitated the use of US dollars in transactions, and, most importantly, required the Centr
Bank's monetary liabilities (the money base) to be fully backed by its international reserves.
Money growth therefore became effectively constrained to inflows of foreign capital, ending
Central Bank financing of deficits.
10.   The expectations of exchange rate stability and the openness of the economy produced
a sharp deceleration in inflation, remonetization and, together with a substantial fall in interest
rates, an expansion of consumer credit. Coufidence was further bolstered in July 1001, by an
IMF Standby and the Bank _ Public SeaorReform Loan (para. 5); and later in the yea * major
advances in deregulation. Nominal deposit rates fell to 10 percent per annum, the lowc.Ni level
in 30 years. Stock market prices and secondary market prices for Argentine external debt
increased sharply, reflecting increased confidence and declining internatial interest rates.
Higher private capital inflows in 1991, financed a US$4 billion rise in imports (and
corresponding reduction of the trade suiplus) and an increase of US$2.7 billion in liquid
reserves. Led by consumption, the economy grew by 8.5 percent in 1991, and 6-7 percent in
1992.
Non Finaria Public Seto Bane a/              lndusvlaW Producson Index  1
S%of GDP                                |(O1990-100)
2 SINFPSB            p 9   1            7C146.0
0                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~135.0
-4                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~115.0
-6                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~106.0
-8            a/ Acomal basi  9~~~~~~~~5.0
-10                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~86.0
I                                   HI~~~~~~~I7.
11.  In early 1992, the Govemment reached an agreement with the Intemational Monetary
Fund (IMF) on a three-year program under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF). ITe EFF
program was designed around a prinmary surplus before privatization (i.e., operational pnmary
surplus) of about 2 percent of GDP, to meet debt service obligations without recourse to the
inflation tax. Fiscal performance to date has exceeded EFF targets, and privatizations pushed
the primary surplus over 3 percent of GDP in 1992.
12.   The large capital inflows-a product of low intenational interest rates and new confidence
in Argentine policy-produced a real appreciation of the peso of about 20 percent since the
beginning of the stabilization. The trade balance deteriorated sharply as a consequence.



-6-
Uti Moon   ned Redl "ltigo   t           Concerns about the trade balance prompted
2500                         250         the Government in late October 1992 to
2000      '                              increae indireC  tax reimbursements for
'A/\                           exports from an average of 8 percent to 13
1500                         lw };'   %   "percent and to raise import tariffs-including
1000                         100         ad valorem tariffs and a flat stadstcs tax-
500                         ISO ~~-~~>--_  50from an avenge of 14.8 percent to 19.8
CL        .,0                   ,,   t    percet,  while  also  reducing  tariff
.60         dispersion. Reducdon in fu e lxes    er
'-2-2 2e 20  imprved the compettiveness of domestic
Tre badabe  ----- BftgtoWMthUS     produC&.  These measur  produced an
_e_                 effective real devaluation of about 5 percet.
B. Argentia's Externa Environmt
13.   Three aspects of the extemal environment affect Argentina's macroeconomic prospects:
the growth of world markets, commodity terms of trade, and the cost of international capital.
Following the stagnation of 1991-92, world growth is expected to recover at the moderate pace
of 3 percent in 1993.4 Consequently, the prspect for growth in the volume of world trade in
1992-93 are better than they were in 1991, and with them the dmand for Argentina's exports,
which the Governent exects to increase at about 7 percent annually for the rest of the decade.
Nonetheless, important im nts to a stronger formance remain. First, the Uruguay
Round of negoations on tariff reductions has not yet been completed; as a major producer of
grans and other agricultural exports, Argentina would ctainly benefit from a reduction in
subsidies of selected industrial countries to these tmpete climate products. Indeed, Bank
studies indicate Argentina would be among the largest beneficiaries from a successful conclusion
of the Round. Argentina'-, efforts to establish a regional free trade with Brazil, Uruguay and
Paraguay-the MERCOSUR area-would also provide new impetus to the trade growth if
successl (para. 43). Second, world demand may recover slowly. Several industral countres
require balance sheet adjustments to unwind the effects of earlier speculative excesses in real
estate and other asset markets. Also, the persistence of large budgetary imbalances in a number
of countries adversely affects business and consmer confidence. Major efforts to reduce fiscal
imbalnces are urgently needed in many countries to strengthen glob  economic prospects,
which would in turn provide greater opporunities for Argentina's exports.
14.   Argentina's terms of trade, aftr a 3 percent deterioration in 1992, are projected to
improve gradually as a result of global demand conditions, according to Bank commodity pnce
forecasts. Real agicultural and raw mateial pes have been relatively stable over the last
4     This section is based upon te analysis provided in te IM8's World &oomc Owlok, October 1992.



three years, hoveing around 80 percent of their 1987 peak. The weakness in nonfuel
commodity prices is attributed to the recet decline in inflation worldwide, but grain demand is
projected to rise because of the increased demand for wheat in the Republics of the former
USSR and low world gain stocks. Because Argentina is energy self-sufflcient, expected
changes in tuel prices will have a relatively small nacrconomic effect.
15.  Conditions in world credit markets wil also affect Argentina's fiscal and balmce of
payments position. A one percentage point change in international interest rates would produce
a US$550 million annual increase or decrease in its public interest bill. Although the demand
for credit has remained high because of persistent fiscal imbalances in the US, Germany, and
other OECD countries, the recession sharply reduced private credit demand; this, together with
an easing of monetary policy, brought interest rates to new lows in 1992. The IIBOR in 1992
was 3.8 percent, half of the 8.4 percent rate prevailing in 1990; the Bank projects a long term
rate averaging 6.8 percent during 1993-2000. Reductions in the public demand for credit may
ease the upward pressures on long-term rates if the added fiscal efforts reduce existing budget
deficits in the OECD countries. These external risks are manageable, and are offset by the
stronger domestic policy in Argentina and the DDSR agreement which will fix the interest rate
on nearly US$14 billion of Argentina's external debt. While developments in these areas could
brighter or dim Argentina's development prospects, the main problems facing the country
continue to be intemal.
C. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
Argentina's Development Objectives and External Financing Requirments
16.  President Menem has made it a national goal to reWn Argentina to the ranks of the
world's more developed economies by the early 21st century. He recognized early in his
administraion that this required a fundamental redrawing of the boundanes between the public
and pnvate sectors, elimination of the chronic imbalances within the public sector to end
inflation, and acceleration of Argentina's integrtion into the world economy. The size and
scope of the Federal Government were to be reduced through far-reaching privaization and
decentraliation of functions to the provinces, with the public sector focusing on its core
functions of providing essential public services. Given sufficient space and proper incentives,
the private sector would replace the state as the engine of economic prosperity.
17.  The first 42 months of the Menem administration witnessed a massive reform of the
public sector to lay the basis for price stability, coupled with an extremely ambitious
privatization program. With the main policy actions now in place, the Government has charted
for itself an agenda basee upon consolidating and deepening these reforms efforts, improving
the institutions of the public sector with specidal attention to the plight of low income groups, and
enhancing the development of the private sector. Consolidating publie sector reforms will allow
the Government to conduct a balanced fiscal policy and a predictable monetary policy.
Combined with proper price incentives associated with an open trade regime and market



- 8-
deregation, this would unleash the potential of Argen a's abundant resources-fertile land,
a highly literate labor force growing at manageable rates, and a sizeable and reasonably weUl
integrted domestic market. Newly privatized sectors, together with the agriculture and
resource-based industries in which Argentina has a natural compam*ive advantage but in which
there has been histonc under-investment, should be strong sources of grwth in the future.
18.   edal and Monetary Poliy. The Govement's main macoeconmic objective is to
achieve a robust long-term annual growth rate of 4-5 percent, with expanding enmloyment and
inflation held to intenational rates.  The opeaonal pimary surplus is prqected to increase
from US$2.4 billion in 1992 to about US$4.4 billion in 1993, about 2.8 percent of GDP (Table
1). This level would be sufficient to service interest payments and to obviate the need for a
future inflation tax, given foreseeable foreign and domestic borrowing. The Government
anticipates no change in its monetary and exchange rate policies, which will continue to be
disciplined by the Converdbility Law and the new Central Bank Charter. A  ight fiscal stance,
continuing import competition, product and factor market deregulation, and new entrants in
hetofore oligopolistic markets would drive domestic inflation to internation  rates.
TAb     AGENTI  - KEY MACROEONOMIC INICATORS
(US$ uflInW
Aveaw       Aveaug
1990    1991      12       199-199S    1996-2000
PA-Y SUIPIUS                             2.012    2.857     5.178      4.029       5.633
lura   otb                               $A5,4S9    4586    2.731      3.847       4,4S3
Dotmeao                                  229      322       160        704        1.198
Porc*gnbt                               5,230    4.264     2,5        3.143       3.25S
Bahac (- - defiO                         -3,448   .1.729     2447       182        1,181
Do_entio F}aong                         4.483     -897    .2,563       201         -S96
FofcipPhmnohgo/                        *1,036    2,626      116       -383         -284
TWOBOSIM                                ai8.51    4,007    -1.139      38         2.595
CurtadAwoutldance,                      1.754   -2.748    *6,779     -S.55        .5,766
CapilW Accomutdi                          161    4,330    10.216      6.115       5.801
PabUe Swior                           -1.036    2.626      116      -383         -284
MDO/                                   169      18       248        675          73
IDB e                                  225     242       527        460         345
Bonds                                 -226     395       -233       -548        *235
Iw el                                 -185     661        338       348         -764
CamndarBonb                         -1,289       0       -127       -175         695
lncm_m fo DDSR                          -                          1.236          -
Bilatzb Sugpliisu  Odm d fl           270    2.512       437         94          921
Privati Sea                           1.197    1.704    10.100      6.498       6.085
GDP Avue AnavAl R ell Graw60.4                     S.S       6.5       3.7          4.2
GDP(USW$ bW                             105.5    35.4      153.2      182.6       248.6
TOWal J.vnu(% GDM                         8.4     12.5      14.0       16.0        18.0
Na11l Savig (U GM                        10.0     10.4       9.6       13.0        15.7
FogaSavinp(D GDP                         -1.6     2.1        4.4       3.0          2.3
of ADflaumsfo,pMoffima  balanof pqmztsmnat
b/ hwhadesquasi-iamulbahnoeofCowlBank
d  J    W*hdesIMA finanalo.
d/ etbiosamfin        P.ingofu.
of InoiseasMu wd additioalein 1.1993 fr ahncumrnA.
V Enclacdeunidledf nschWof0. psmnt of GDP par year fin 199-2000.



-9 -
19.  Balance of Payments. The Govenment's progam relies on private capital inflows and
increasing private domestic saving to finance investment.  ight fiscal policy and passive but
predictable monetary policy would continue to make investment in Argentine financial and real
assets attractive. The country's rich, unrealized potential would offer high returns to inm ent
for some time. The authorities view the estimated US$50-60 billion in private savings of
Argentine residents held abroad as a reliable source of future capital inflow, though perhaps
slowing in 1993. This would, of course, require continuance of current econonic policies.
20.   The Goverment anticipates that the trade balance will improve progrssively beging
in 1993, in response to continued tight fiscal policy and the commercia policy measures of
November 1992-which inreased the pnce of imports and exports in pesos. These were
intended to help switch resources from nontradeables back to tradeables as demand for imports
declines and demand for competing domestic goods and export demand increase. Thds switch
would be strengthened by continued productivity growth in tradeables due to deregulation
measures. Nominal wages in the nontradeable sector would fal relative to the tradeable sector.
Capital inflows would slow gradually. As the demand for consumer credit weakens, credit
would be channelled into investments in productive activites fthat satisfy the new demand in net
exports and internationally compedtitve domestic activities. The resulting trade balance, and real
exchange rate, would be a reflection of capital inflows to finance imports and the demand for
Argentine assets.
21.  Exteral Fuancing Requirements. The capital account in the balance of payments
reflects the projected changes in the net foreign asset position of the public and private sectors.
The public sector's net external borrowing requirement is negative, as the net flows assiated
with the collateral purchase as wel as partal amortization of bonds and commercial debt exceed
net inflows from international financial institutions by about US$383 million. Much as with
Mexico after its turiing point in the late 1980s, the World Bank and IDB would increase their
exposure in Argentina, but not substantially so after the mid-1990s. The IMP's exposure would
decline after the exiration of the EFF. Prvate bondholders, including holders of BONEX, will
be net recipients of funds, although the Government expects to refinance roughly three-quarters
of bonds coming due. Commercial banks are projected to be net recipients of funds on the debt
that replaces existing arrears under the Debt Ageement.
22. The private sector is projected to substantially increase its net investment in Argentina.
Foreign direct investment is expected to increase at about 8 percent annually, to average about
US$2.7 billion. Private short-term capital flows are projected to average about US$3.7 billion-
about 1.5 percent of GDP-to satisfy the demand for additional imports and domestic assets; this
would finance the projected current account deficit over 1993-2000. The vast investment
opportmities created by the privatztion progmm as well as potential repatiation of eamings
on foreign-held private assets make this feasible. Nonetheless, since the Government has
identified vitay all of its financing, the actual finmcing from the private sector for the
balance of payments will be a function of the desired savings-investment balance in the private
sector.



- 10-
23.   Possible Risks. Te above scenario is attainable if the Government continues to improve
its fiscal position, and if private markets generate a smooth transition to a sustnable balance
of payments and growth path. However, even with adequate er ante fiscal adjustment, it should
be recognzed that near-term growth rates could be lower than prqjected. Slower growth or even
a recession could come about through two related mechanisms. Capital inflows may drive up
import volumes, and prices of non-tradeables and domestic assets to unsustainably high levels;
then, as the correction ensued, private capital flows would tr off or even reverse, pushing
up domestic inter  rates. (Rising international interest rates could also slow capital inflows
sharply.) The first response would be higher domestic interest rates which would dampen
growth. Also, domestic prices may be slow to converge to competitive international levels;
price setters, long used to markup pricing in oligopolistic enionments, might take several
months of slow sales before startng to cut prices to the degree necessary to adjust the overall
price level and thus the real exchange rate. Slower growth woud evenually produce the price
convergence necessary to sustain the exchange rate regime and rekandle export-led growth,
although it would also undoubtedly creae added fiscal pressure. As revenues fall and the
interest bill rises, the speed of the central government adjustment in reducing expenditures would
determine the size of any increase in the Government's net borrowing requirement, making it
more difficult to achieve the projected partidal rollover of its domestic debt with bondholders.
A short recession would probably pose no major threat to the Government's macroeconomic
program; though modifications may be required, it would be unlikely to derail the fundamental
structural reforms.
24.  It also has to be recognized that a worsening macroeconomic panorama-or political
events-could trigger a speculative attack on the peso. The ease of capital mobility between
currencies and across borders, superimposed on a small monetary base, means that the economy
is unusually vulnerable to swift changes in private expectations and portfolio shifts. A sudden
cycle of demonetization, very high interest rates and deep recession could produce cracks in the
financial system. The Government might then be forced to choose between: (i) providing
emergency liquidity to prevent the collapse of the financial system, thereby putting pressure on
the exchange rate; and (ii) letting financial institutions collapse with some depositors suffering
losses, while sharp increases in interest rates drive the economy into recesson. In these
cicumstances, there would be great pressure to alter the policy framework.
25.   The probability of these adverse events declines as the Government progresses on reforms
that improve the fundamentals of public finance. The past reforms of the public sector anchor
stabilization and are unliky to be reversed during any financial turbulence. Also, reserves are
the highest in a decade and cover the monetary base (although not the deposit base), which tends
to deter a speculative attack on the peso. Even ff the events outined in para. 24 were to
mateialize, thereby creating great pressure to alter the policy framework, in all likelihood any
emerging policy regime would of necessity focus on maintaining fiscal balance and policies
conducive to private investment, as recent history attests. Over the last few year, the country
has enacted serious and difficult structual reforms with considerable public support. The lack
of alternatives to fiscal discipline and price stability, and memories of the hyperinflon of 1989-



- 11-
90, have made stability politically popular. These  cs are powerfu balmast that is likely to keep
the ship of structural adjustment headed in the same direcdon, even in a financial storm.
Bank Assistance: Objectives and Actsvla
26.   The Bank has been, and will remain, a strong supporter of the ambitious Argentine
reform program launched by the Menem Govemnment Our fiuture stategy will be to support
the effort to consolidate the macrenomi reforms and deepen their impact, making them
more permanent by stgthening Argentna's greatly weaked institutions, and by fostering
the development of the private sector, with particular attention to resource mobilization and
intermediation issues. The widely acclaimed reforms of the Mexican and Chilean economies
began 10-15 years ago; by contast, the Argentine process is still only a few years old. While
the speed of the fiscal, monetary and public enterprise reforms has been astonishing, the process
still remains a frgie one. Sustained stablhty and growth zequir continued attention to the
fisca fundamentals. The Govnment must continue the momentum of current structua
reforms and deal with pending issues of povincia finmces, soci security reform, and the need
for greater labor market flexibility. Although much important legislation has been passed,
strengthening the institutions of economic management and the fleshing out of new insdtutions
are still major tasks. After years of neglect, wage repression and politicization, Argenina's
institutions remain quite weak. The maceonomic reforms have begun to create the fiscal
space necessary to address longstnding health and education needs, but the national and
provincial institutions charged with providing these resources remains deficient. An excellent
start has been made by drscally reducing the size of the cental admiistion, but the
development of a well-paid, professional civil service has only begun. Like Mexico and Chile,
future Argentine growth will now be dependent on the dynamism of private sector advity in
leading the economic recovery. A credible and deepened progam, and a healthier and more
stable work force, can enhance investors' expectatons, but the pivate sector will need to
marshall unprecedented foreign and domestic resources to address the backog of deferred vital
investments and the needs of the newly prvatized sectors. Yet Argentina's capital markets-and,
again, the institutions asisting these markets-will need to be strengthened.
Consoldag Macneconoec Refonm
27.  While the insdtutional and policy framework has substantially improved the
macroeconomic fundamentals, there are stll some significant policy issues which need to be
addressed. Also, the reform process itslf is relatively young and therefore needs to be
nurtured, fine tuned and reinforced until it h more fuly intenalized in publc and private
behavior. The agenda of pending efforts is ambitious, yet essental to attaining Argenina's
development objectives. The Bank will assist this effort by contiuing to provide the
Government with timely macroeconomic work on the institutional and structural underpinnings
to fiscal and monetary policy. In addition, proposed adjustment lending would support fiscal
reform efforts at the provincial level, and ESW would addre  social secuty reform and labor
market policy issues.



- 12-
28. Provincial Ad4ustment. Fiscal adjustment in the provinces, which now spend nearly 50
percent more than the national adminstration and are increasgly becoming the main providers
of core public services, has become urgent. Revenue collections have lagged, and wage
expenditures and pension schemes are inflated, with some of the smaller provinces employing
more ta  30 percent of the work force in the public sector. At the same time, capital
expenditures have declined from about 30 percent of total expenditures in the early 1980s to less
than 15 percent at present. A sharp increase in the volume of legally mandated transfers,
resultng from the Federal Govemment's success in raising revenues, has had the unintended
effect of reducing the pressure on provincial authorities to adjust. The ongoing Prowncial
Development Loan (US$200 million, December 1990), after a long gestation period during which
the technical infrastructure to implement the project was created, is now paying dividends in
terms of better financial programming in the provinces; the loan is disbursing at an adequate
pace. The Bank has also maintained a robust sector work program that has provided guidance
to the Federal authorities on neceay provincial reforms.5 In the future, firther changes will
be needed in legislation on revenue shanng and other mandated transfers, to provide stronger
incentives for the provinces to reform. All provinces will need technical assistance to modernize
their administrative apparatus and enable them to take up the new responsibilities. Since the
provinces are now pivotal to the attainment of long-term fiscal stability in Argentina, the Bank
is discussing a possible adjustment loan to support structuml reforms in provincial tax collection,
reductions in staffing, privatization of provincial enterpnses, and reduction of current
expenditures.
29.   Social Security Reform. The public pension insurance system, which comprises about
one-third of federal public expenditures in Argentina, is performing extremely poorly. Despite
an excessive payroll tax of 26 percent of gross salary and earmarked tax revenues of about
US$85 million per month, the system accumulated debt through unmet legal obligations to
pensioners at a rate of about US$200 million per month, reaching some US$9 billion at end-
1991. The Government has opted for a major change that would maintain mandatory pension
insurance while privatizing its supply and replacing pay-as-you-go financing with individual
capitalized accounts. The state would provide an additional tax-financed uniform pension
adequate to support reidred low-wage workers. Besides reducing the onerous payroll taxes that
discourage formal sector employment, such a reform would also generate a supply of long-term
financial savings. However, only some reduction of existing benefits based on introduction of
an actuarially fair benefit formula would contain fiscal costs during the transiton to manageable
levels without requiring excessive compulsory bond issues to the private pension funds. The
main studies that provided the data base for the design of the social security reform were
financed under the Social Sector Management TechndcaAssistance Loan (1988, US$28 million),
and technical discussions will continue through the Bak's regular macroeconomic dialogue with
the Government and specific sector work planned for this year.
The Bank has discumsed with authonties two studies Arenina Proinndal Goveent Finance (1990) and
a recently completed report Argentina Towards a New Fedemlsm (1992), a summary of which can be
found in Argenina: Public Finance Review-From Inslvency to Growtu (1993).



- 13 -
30.   Labor Market Flexibility. In the context of its fixed exchange rate system, prices and
wages must be flexible to permit adjustment in Argentina's external accounts to the availability
of capital flows. If the present high price level in pesos which results in cheap imports and
expensive exports is to change, employers must be able to set wages and prices in response to
market conditions. Until recently, however, Argentina had one of the most rigid sets of labor
laws in the hemisphere, which virtually excluded the downward adjustment of labor costs
Centralized industry-specific unions and associations held a monopoly for collective bargaining;
the Minister of Labor had to register all collective agreements-or impose a settlement-and
enforce them throughout the country without allowing for varations among regions or firms
(i.e., any wage reduction would therefore require a new industry-wide agreement or settlement).
Employers were discouraged from adjusting their work force in response to changes in market
conditions not perceived as permanent, because fixed-term contracts were excluded even for
apprentices, and workers had the right to high severance pay without a probationary period or
consideration for unsatisfactory job performance; and the law on work accident compensation
generated fraudulent claims because employers were responsible for the legal expenses of both
parties to a dispute without limits, despite the outcome. Consequently, ever greater numbers
of employers and workers were driven into informal, often illicit arrangements.
31.   Beginning in 1988, to improve wage and employment flexibility the Government ceased
imposing wage settlements, thereby compelling unions and associations to come to terms without
relying on political pressure. In November 1991, Congress passed new labor legislation which
has significantly reduced the costs and risks of litigation, and in February 1992, a decree
tablished apprenticeships outside the restrictions of labor contract law.  Finally, the
Government has drafted a new law on labor flexibility to allow small and medium-scale firms
(those with up to 200 employees, representing about 60 percent of the labor force) to have fixed-
term contract without the sanction of collective agreements; to replace the ngid severance pay
system with individual capitalizon accounts filled by contributions of 4 percent of nominal
salary; and to give firm-level agreements precedence over industry-wide collective agreements
and enable employers who are paries to such agreements to reduce wages or lay off personnel
in case of distress. Nonetheless, national union leaderships would still negotiate each labor
contract. Since unions have virtally no internal democratic procedures, local workers are not
effectively represented. Therefore, while the changes to date are significant and the new
legation would be a step in the directin of increased flexibility, amending the law of labor
associations remains the main unfinished business.6 The Bank suppots the Government's
objective of intoducing greater flexblity into the labor market so as to create more
opporunities, especially for low income workers, and will be undertaking ESW to analyze more
fuly the implications of the new legsative proposals and related labor market issues.
The iDnovations of the employment law-fixed-rm contracts, firm-level agreemes, nd industy-ide
unemployment insrance-wer hobbled by tbe failure to amend the law of labor iations. As a rest.
i firms can offer fixed-erm contas only if sanctioned by collective agreements on the national level; (i)
fim-level wag agreements must be negotiated with natonal unions rather than local wkers'
representatives; and (m) unemployment insurance must be intoduced dhro  collective agreements and
cannot replace severance pay obligatios.



- 14 -
Insitutienal Sth"Sqte'dng
32.  Rekdndling growth requires not only reforning public finances, policies, and entises
but also improving the institutional capacity of government to implement the refoms and provide
high-uality sexces   This is not only vital to help the private sector become more
internationally compettive, it is also necessary to improve the welfare and productivity of
Argenina's citizens. The poor, after a decade of slow growth, require access to improved social
services to increase their skills, productivity and inoome leveis. This can be done only if
Argentina's public institutions can either recover from years of neglect or (in the case of new
responsibilities) be rapidly developed-particularly in the areas of public education and health,
regulatory capacity, technology transfer, and environmental enfoxcement.
33.   Sodal Services. Argentina's social services have been particulady affected by weak or
changed institutions. Poor targeting and the austerity-induced erosion of basic heakh seices
have stalled progress in reducing maternal and infant mortality and malnutrition. The poverty
belts surrounding the cities of Buenos Aires and Rosario and in the less developed northern
provinces have been hardest hit. The Government has also recently decentalized major
responsibility for health services to the provincial level. To be successfid in enhancing service
delivery, however, the provinces will require assistance to improve teir  aemet capability.
34.  Beginning with a proposed project ta help the provinces provide better health and
nutrition assistance to mothers and children, Bank assistance would target vulnerable groups in
the uban poverty belts and the underdeveloped northern provines, in close collaboration with
prvincial authorites. This would be followed by more comprehsive regional projects,
beginning with the Greater Buenos Aires region (where the largest conce.tration of poor lives),
and then expandig to the poor Northwest provinces, and later to additional regions as
necessary.
35.  The Bank is also concemed with national health care issues. At present, the unions
administer a compuLsry wage tax of 4.3 percent of GDP with minimal public supoeion, high
adminisve costs, and poor service.  Since coverage is mosdy for unionized labor,
approximately half of the population is left without access to public health insnce. A reform
of this system would allow affihiates to choose their isurance companes, permit new entry,
mandate a minimum benefit package for a uniform preum, provide a sound regulatory
framework, and make access to a national health insuance progam universal  Under the
SSMTAL, the Government has prepared a draft law that would break the monopoly of unions on
the supply of mandatory health inace. Although poltal opposition to such changes is
stong, and the challenge which the Government will face in trying to obtain the necessary
lgidaftive support should not be undersmated, our dlge will continue in 1993.
36.  Public educadon serices have also both deteriorated and been devolved to the provinces.
The Bank is working with the Government on a possible loan to help provincial authorities
improve secondary education, responsibility for which was transferred in late 1992. At the
university level the authorities are preparing a major financing reform to introduce tuition



- 15 -
charges and student loans for low-income students. This is needed to improve the quality of
higher education and reduce implicit subsidies to the educated middle-class (1.7 percent of
GDP), an action the Bank has long advocated.
37.  The federa govenment spends about US$1 bllion annually on houshg subsidies through
its FONAVI program, among the laqest of its public investment programs. In effect, the
program provides middle class housing subsidies to builders and buyers because of excessive
contractual costs and poor collection perfornce. The Government tried with the help of the
Bank in the late 1980s to redirect the program towards the poor, but the effort failed. Not only
were vested interests politically strong, an already weak fedeal housing institution was
undermined by a greater decentliion of the housing program to the provinces. The latter
often have even weaker housing institutions. The Bank was eventually forced to cncel a related
housing loan. Nonetheless, in its Public Fnance Reiew and on-going discussions, the Bank
continues to maintain a dialogue on the issues.
38.  Energy and lnr.  Endowed with substantial deposits of hydrocbons,
particularly gas, past governments reserved development of these resources to state-owned gas
and oil companies. Development was slow and considerable resource rents were passed on to
favored suppliers and private oil companies. Electricity service deteriorated gradually thrugh
poor management, prices were suppressed as part of unsuccessul stabilization efforts, and
increasingly costly hydropower projects raised public investment requirements.
39. Argentina has undertaken major changes in its energy institutions since 1989; it now is
among the most advanced of developing counties in privatizing state energy enterpnses, and has
also done some innovaive work on regulatory frameworks to guide competitively the newly
privatized firms. New legislation has been passed for deddlty, gas, and pdmklewa. In all
three areas, production has been atomized to permit competition between producers of gas, crude
petroleum, and electicity. In electricity and gas, the transmission systems have been or are
being sold to owners with limited links to producdon firms, and the distribution systems sold
consistent with regulatory oversight of prices and qualit. The international and domestic sale
of petroleum and petroleum products was greatly libealzed. The state oil company, YPF, has
been restructued while seling off marginal assets. YPF is the only state enterprise the
Government will keep as a going concern and privatize via gradual share sales, beginning in
1993. The Bank has supported these efforts via PENAL I and H, as well as intensive supervision
of SEGBA V.
40.   For the new systems to work, the Govemment must rapidly develop and stengthen the
new regulatory institutions. The first effort to develop an autonomous reguatory agency-in
telecommunications-demonstrated the difficulties that must be confronted. A poor choice of
commissioners combined with the difficulties the new agency faced forced the Government to
intervene the telecommunications commission, use a consulting firm to cover its responsibilities,
and gradually restaff the commision. The Bank is discussing with the authorities a possible
regulatory loan to follow up the development and s ening of these new agencies. The
Bank would also continue to support the completion of already advanced energy projects to



- 16-
ensure that ultimately prvatized sectors do not suffer from supply or environmental problems.
The Govemment, with support from the Bank and the IDB, is expediting completion of the
Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project, which will help prevent supply shortages. The Bank and IFC
are also worlkng with YPF to develop a pollution program that would be supported both before
and after its privatization.
41.   For decades, public investment in tMnspoeadon, water and other WAnfit   has
been too low, and public assets have deteriorated along with the services they provide. The
Government has completely rrgazed the institutional responsibilities for these sectors through
privatization-railways, airlines, Buenos Aires' water and sewerage, ports, and selected road
concessons-and decentralization of responsibilities for roads and water and sewerage to the
provinces. Efforts are continuing to privatize the national maritime comipany. The provinces
will have an increasing role in most of these sectors. While the Federal authorities continue to
administer the national roads system, the provincial governments are expected to participate,
particularly in road and port system planning and maintenance. In water supply and sewage,
decentralization began earlier in 1980s.
42.   The Bank's objectives are to help reinforce provincial authorities' administative capacity
to perform their new roles as well as help establish adequate competitive and/or regulatory
frameworks. For the provinces, the Bank would seek to build their institutional capacity through
a series of loans to enable these governments to cope with their extended responsibilities for
infrastructure in the wake of public sector reform. This will be inidated with a proposed project
in road maintenance scheduled for PY94, followed by others in rural infrastructure (irrigation
development), and water and sewage. For the privatized sectors, the Bank will focus on helping
in the privatization process, and the development of regulatory frameworks. The proposed
regulatory loan would likely include some transport and water agencies, although provincial
agencies would best be assisted through provincial operations.
43. Public Services for Agriculture and Industry. Argentina's natural resource-intensive
and skill-intensive tradeable sectors stand to gain from trade lbealiation, deration,
improved access to investment finance and infrstructure development. However, the
deterioration of public services-such as agricultural research and extension, technology
dissemination, standardization, quality testing, and vocational training-has led to a loss of
competitiveness by local producers. The deterioration in the supply of these services needs to
be reversed to unlock the full gowth potential of tradeable sectors. The Bank plans two
opratons (for agricultural and indistrial services resectively) to help restore the supply of
research, technology transfer, quality control and vocational trining.



- 17 -
Foste,ing Pdvate Sector Growth
44.   As its public sector is reduced in both scope and impact, Argentina's future growth will
depend on an expanding and dynamic private sector. The Government has begun well a process
to end the many distortons ta repressed and misguided past private economic activity; it is
now attempting to improve the few key public serces that can support modern private
enterprise. But the key to private investment-which will be vital for the sustaining the ecoaomic
recovery just beginning-will be the capacity of private investors to marshall unprecedented sums
from Argentina's still weak capital markets.
45.   Over the past four years, the Government has implemented successive reductions in
average tariff levels, quantitative restrictions, and other nontariff barriers to international trade,
while deregulating the barriers to domestic trade and investment. For short-term macroeconomic
reasons, it incr4ased average protection levels last November by about 5 percent, but remains
committed to an open trade policy and has indicated its intention of bringing protection down
as the trade balance improves. The Government also mitigated trade dispersion by lowerng the
maximum effective rate from 38 percent to 30 percent (ariffs plus statistical tax) and raising
minimum rates from 3 to 10 percent. At the same time, average export tax rebates were raised
from 8 to 13 percent, and the system was rationalized to offset the cascading effect of the import
taxes on exports.
46.   During the past two years, the Gov ernment also undertook a major effort to end the
major distortions deterring domestic commerce and investment. The Bank has supported these
efforts; two Trade Policy Loans (1987-88) were instrumental in launching the trade reform
effort, and some of our ESW had underlined the cost of many state regulations deternng
economic activity. Argentina has also been one of the proponents of a regional common market,
PMCOSUR, with Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay. If brought to fruition as planned by 1995,
this ambitious effort would permit free trade in goods, services and factor flows among
members, and is viewed by Argentina as a first step toward a hemispheric common market
arrangement. These efforts are far advanced and the Bank will continue to support the
Government in maintaining an open economy, primarily through our future macroeconomic
dialogue. After an exhaustive review, the Government also abrogated a long senes of
rlations that hac restricted entrance to a variety of activities ranging from gasoline stations
to pharmacies, from steel wholesaling to professional licenses. Finally, it has revised labor
regulations that had detefred employment generation. As noted earlier, more important labor
liberalization will begin once Congrss finishes consideration of new labor legislation.
47.   Nonetheless, as elaboWed in Part II of this report, decades of high inflation have left
Argentina with a shrunken capital market and a banking system geared to financing the public
sector. While major reforms of the banking system and capital markets are underway, these are
being tested rapidly. Not only are the newly privatized firms in need of major investments, to
make up for the years of neglect by the public sector, many prior private firms are eager to take
advantage of the strengthened macroeconomic framework and expand their activities. Until
recently, the Argentine financial markets were able to marshall only modest resources compared



- 18 -
to the country's GDP; over US$SO billion was hld abroad by Argentine savers, and the
currency had lost all credibilit even as a unit of account, let alone as a store of value,
Argentina's stock market was used almost wholly for bond trnactions, and virtually aU of those
were in US dollars.
48.   While the major macroeconomic refirms have reversed this siuation, the need now is
for a rapid development of a rigorous capac  to supervise finamcial markets--to bring
transparency to a sector still dominated by weak financial institutions-and enhance its credibility
to support longer term instruments needed by expanding enterprises. Only some large and well-
run firms are now able to obtain t year terms, while the rest obtain far shorter terms. On
the othe hand, a recent study by a respected Argentine research institute e3timates that only the
newly privadtiz  PEs will need to borrow over US$3 billion yearly in long-tem  funds if their
investment requirements are to be met.
49.   The Bank is strongly supporting efforts that strengthen the mobilization of domestic
savings and their efficient intermediain to investnent. The reform program embodied in the
proposed Fnancial Sector Adjusmem Loan is the cometone of this strategy. As stability
becomes consolidated, the financial system will become stronger, and the demand for long-term
investment resources will increase. Therefoxe the Bank is also now preparing capital markets
development opeaons that would both acceleate the development of longer-term instruments
in the Argentine capital market and improve the regulatory ftamework of the capital market
iself.
Some Arms of Specda Eqpha*
50.   Poverty Alle'4on. The proporion of Argendnes living in poverty doubled from 1980
to 1989.7 This was because growth of employment was stagnant, especally in the periphery
of the major urban areas, and because inflation had a higly regressive impact on real wages of
the poor and their peso savings. The poor are not able to bargain effectively with employrs,
nor are they able to shift savings out of pesos as rapidly as wealthier Argentines. At the same
time, social services failed to cushion the fal of many Argentines into poverty-because few
programs were targeted to the poor even at their highest spending levels, and because fiscal
austerity and inadequate budgetay p mming contributed to their deterioration throughout
the 1980s.
51.   The stuctnul reforms have already made an imporant contribution to poverty reducdon
through their effects on pnce stability and growth. The inflation tax, which routnely averaged
7    World Bank Poveny Ad Iome D1fion s Lain Amca& Dhe &o,y f the 198*, December 1992,
based on UN ECLA and Governmen houseold sorvey, while estimated poverty at only about 7 percent in
1989. Becau of inherent methodologica problems m estimating an absolute poverty line, the trend is
probably more reliable than the exact number. While Argeni's resource and demogrhic configuration
make its absoolut poverty rats among the lowes in the hemisphere, tis esfimate is most probaly
understaed.



- 19-
4-6 percent of GDP annually, has been replaced by efficient taxes, whose incidence falls
prop yotatey greater on the middle and upper classes. New imvestment has already increased
the demand for low-skilled labao in constructon in many urban areas. While open
unemployment is sdll high at 6.9 percent, it has faLlen somewhat from its peak of nearly 8
peroent in 1989, thus incoating nearly 150,000 new worke  into the labor force.
Maintaining economic grow  based on a low inflation tax is a prerequisite for continuing to
reduce absolute poverty.
52.  As the fundamentals of the macroconomic program improve, the Bank's objective is to
devote more resources to assist in sector policy formulation--in health, education and housing-
that wil reduce poverty. Some of this has already been done, through the Sodal Setors
Managmem TAL, the Bank has financed studies of health, education, and social security; the
Public FYnance Review (1993) has prvided a framework for federal social expenditures, and
ongoing poverty study will identify targeted interventions that would specifically contribute to
poverty alleviation. Building on this work, and as indicated in paras. 34 and 36, the Bank
intends to prepare projects to help strengthen the provision of health and education, where
relatively low expenditures can have a marked impact on the quality of life and productivity of
the poor. Indeed, as adjusment lending is phased out, our future emphasis in the social sectors
wil be guided by poverty issues.
53.  Envronment. As the economic crisis recedes, the Government is becoming more
senitive to the adverse long-term environmental impact of existing patterns of natral resource
use and indusil and urban wate disposal. in urban environment, water pollution ssues,
including industrial contaminat  and the state of water supply/treament systems, are
considered most urgent, pardcularly for the greater Buenos Aires area. In rural areas, linkages
between agrcultural pracices and environmental quality (e.g. sodl erosion, control of pesticide
use, forestry production) are prorties. In addition, the preservaion of natural habitats and
species is seen as requiring permanent vigilance and effort.
54.  The ability of the Government to deal with these issues is hampered by weak institutional
arrangements, and a lega and regulatory framework chameteried by numerous laws and
regulations with little effective enforcement. The lack of Government resolve to police itself has
hampered enforcement; in the past, the exent of public monopoly and control over key sectors
of the economy resulted in the Government being the pnncipal contaminator of the environment.
There are also junsdictional problems in frming and enforcing environmental legislation which
vests most power with individual provinces and not the federal government.
55.  An Environmental Assessment in 1991 identified an agenda of problems that need to be
addressed, as macroeconomic and fiscal constraints abate, thus freeing up both senior managerial
time as well as providing resources. The Government has already begun to deal with industrial
pollution via the PERAL 11 wad PEREL. The latter is being used to prepare a project to
strengthen the newly created Secrtaiat of the Environment, an effort the IDB is also interested
in supporting. As noted, the Bank will begin to address YPF's pollution with a possible project
even before its privadzation. Future Bank ESW will focus on areas to support the Government



-20 -
in developing a lega framework that would allow for effective regulation and market-based
solutions. In agriculture, ESW now underway in forestry will review resource management
issues and provide the analytical basis for future lending in forestry and soil conservation.
Levels of Bank Assistance and Relations with Other Crediors
Lening Levels and Composidon
56.  Although an early member of the Bretton Woods institutions, Argentina borrowed
relatively little from the Bank until the mid-1980s, by which time total lending net of
cancelation was only about US$1.6 billion (about 60 percent in energy, 25 percent in
infrastructure, and the balance in agriculture and industrial development). Lending picked up
during 1986-88, with the approval of some adjustment operations, continued heavy support for
energy, and a few projects distributed among other sectors (totalling US$2.4 billion net of
cancellations). The early adjustment loans, in particular those for trade policy reform, yielded
some useful reforms but their overall impact was constrained by the Goverment's inability to
stabilize the economy and control mounting hyperinflation. During 1989-90, new lending was
resaticted to a smaUl tax administration project, although the Bank maintained a very close
elationship with the new Menem Government durng these two years, base on an intensive ESW
program and active dialogue on macroeconomic issues. Since 1991, the Bank has again stepped
up leading to Argentina, for a total of about US$2.6 billion, slightly more than half of which
has been for adjustment support and related technical assistance operatons (excluding the
proposed Financial Sector A4,usiment Loan). Assuming strong macroeconomic and policy
performance, Bank lending to Argentina for FY93-97 could reach a maximum of about
US$5 billion. In the near-term, about half of the program would be devoted to adjustment
lending, but this would phase out in FY94 to be replaced in the outer years by only investment
operations. Roughly 20 percent of the FY93-97 program would be devoted to consolidating
macroeconomic, 60 percent to improving the public capacity to provide social and productive
services (of which one-third would directly alleviate poverty), and the remainder to fostering
private sector growth. Annex XII provides a matrix of the policy issues which are being, or
would be, addressed in the FY93-97 lending program.
57.  Acual lending levels will be dependent on maintenance of a macroeconomic program that
does not resort to the inflation tax. Argentina's transition to sustained stability and high growth
can succeed only with strong fiscal polic) based on the completion of public sector reforms and
detemined. The Bank wil therefore maintain an active macroeconomic work program and
dialogue to help the Government in keeping its program on track. Particular attention will be
paid to the quality of fiscal adjustment, as evidenced by improvements in the tax strucre,
expenditure composition, social security reform, and adjustment in the provinces, as well as
maintenance of trade and financial reforms to date.
58.  Unexpected delays in implementing the reform program could stretch out the period over
which loans could be presented to the Board, and might therefore reduce actual lending below
the maximum US$5 billion five-year lending estimate. A less positive fiscal performance might



- 21 -
slow the progress in improving management capacity and in mobilizing counterpart funds,
requiring a slower-an-anticipated project sequencing. Also, investment project preparation is
likely to encounter difficulties as the transfer of responsibilities to the provinces implies that we
will work with uncertin mechanisms of coordination between junsdictions.
Potefolo Management Issues
59.   The implementation of mnvestment and technical assistance loans approved prior to 1989
suffered from macroeconomic instability, counterpart funding constraints, poor management and
frequent changes in personnel. As the economy stabilized, these difficulties have abated, though
the Government still lacks an investment process on a par with those of other hemispheric
leaders in adjustment. On the positive side, the Government has improved its savings
mobilization, relieving the constraints on counterpart funding. Second, it has steadily improved
its investment programming through preparation of an investment program tightly linked to the
budget. Tbird, through the civil service reform and associated salary increases, management
in the public sector has been gradually improved, although much remais to be done. The
Govenmment and Bank have held two Country Portfolio Performance Reviews since 1990, and
addressed a seies of implementatdon issues. Since then, improved performance can be seen in
agricultural opeations, in technical assistance for power engineering, public enterprise, tax
administration, as well as in the municipal and provincial development projects. In addition, the
portfolio of poorly perfoming prjects designed prior to the reform process was made consistent
with the new strategy during FY92, and moribund projects--Small and Medium Scale Credit,
Housing Sector, and Bahia Blanca Port loans--were cancelled, while loans for electric power
and socil sector management were redesigned. After slight changes, two loans-Gas Utilizaton
and Technical Assistance and Water Supply-were used by the Government to privatize
Argentina's gas company and the Buenos Aires waterworks. For these reasons, the quality of
the portfolio has improved, and the pace of loan implementation has quickened.
60.   However, many tak still lie ahead, such as improving the speed of loan activation and
iniation, and the monitoring by federal authorities of large projects and those with external
financing to ensure timely implementation.  Through our Public Sector Reform Technical
Assistance Loan, we are providing support at the federal level for improving procurement,
budgeting, and monitoring; although, it will take some time before these efforts bear fruit. At
the provincial level, public sector management is weaker still, and will require significant
support. Nevertheless, implementation of many key projects is having a major impact on
Argentina's development prospects. For these reasons, the Region continues to allocate among
the highest resources per project to the Argentine portfolio, both by Headquarters and field
office staff.
Cooperadon with Other Multilaterml Insttutons
61. The Bank has worked closely with the IRf in the design and supervision of adjustment
operations, in formulaing the country assistance strategy, and in ESW. For example, in 1990-
92, Bank and Fund staff have routinely scheduled parallel missions for the PSRL and Standby



- 22 -
reviews, exchanged information, projections and analyses, and held veral briefings in areas of
mutual expertise. To ensure collaboration, the Bank's Board has invited IMF staff to attend its
meetings, and the IMP Board has done likewise; Bank Regional management routinely invites
IMF staff to attend inenal decision-making meetings on major loans and strategy sessions.
There has also been extensive cor,sultation with the IDB, which has cofinanced a number of
investment and adjustment operaons.
IFC and MIGA Activites
62.  IFC's investment strategy in Argentina is to continue to help develop industrial
competitiveness in the face of rapid economic liberalization. The Corporation is helping export-
oriented projects in agro and forestry processing, hydrocarbon devAlopment and infrastrucure
such as railroad maintenance and pons. Domestic industries are being aided through
rstructunngs and expansions with complementary support for infrastructure espeially
telecommunications, roads and power. In addition, IFC would support privatization or
restructring projects tirough fee-based advisory services, direct investment, foreign resource
mobilization, and an actual participation in the management of a privatization fund. IFC is also
considering activities to deepen the securities market through local and international equity
issues, support to local underwritings, investments in closed companies to be eventually opened,
and participation in stockbroker houses. Moreover, IEFC is considering the development of new
products in Argentna, such as leasing and pnvate pension fund maagement. IFC has made 77
direct investments in Argentina, totalling US$768.4 million, of which US$324. 1 million has been
repaid, cancelled or sold. In FY92, there were investments in chemicals, capital markets,
energy, railroads, food and agnbusiness, and malt production. For FY93, approvals for
investments for IFC's own account should exceed US$225 million and twice this amount in IFC
loan syndications. These investments would again cover a wide gamut of activities, with the
largest portion in recently privatized companies including electricit generation, transmission,
and distribution, gas and oil pipelines, railroads, telecommunications and water treatment.
MIGA has also been active in Argentina. including projs in the pipeline, almost US$150
million has already been provided in coverage for opeations in banking and in pulp and paper.
Issues for the Lending Strategy
63.   Consolidating macroeconomic stability is a prerequisite for progress in institutional
strengthing  and fostering private sector-led growth.  In the short-tern, the emerging
imbalances in the current account of the balance of paymants portend a future adjustment which,
as noted above, may take a different form than that foreseen in the Government's present
program. It is the view of both the MP and Bank staff that at present no change in the policy
frmework is warranted other than continued efforts to improve the primary balance. The Bank
will therefore continue to press the agenda outlined above on public sector reform and labor
market flexibility. As in the pas, progress on the fuentals-tat is, the structural reform
agenda-holds the key to lasting price stability. This has been the Bank's stategy since I88,
and te progressive convergence toward prce stabiity and renewed growth leads us to persist
with this approach.



- 23 -
64.   Sgtning institutions also presents particar challeges to the Banl. The post-
adjustment phase in Argentina, with more emphasis on investment lending and the
decentralization of most public services to te provinces, will place greater demands on the
institutiona cacity of the Government, and coordination problems m project design and
plementation will eand geometncally wihi the number of indpendent acts. Bxpezience
wi  the provinces under the ongoing PWncdal and Munkipat Deopmem Procs suests
that many have only a weak capacity to carry out their new soclal sector responsbilities, and
need substantial institutional strengthening. This puts a premium on designing prjects with
simple procedures and strong govemment ownership. It also limits the ability to implement
nationwide progams involving all the provinces. Effective Bank assistance, then, may require
focusing initial efforts on selected provinces-especially those with the highest number of
absolute poor and those with the greatest fiscal imbalances, although we will also have to tale
into consideration implementation capacity. Even then, opaions outside Buenos Aires will
require gater supervision intensity on the part of the Bank.
65.   Within a short while, vrtually all of Argentina's national power, telecommunications,
gas, water, steel, chemicals, and petroleum industries will be in private hands. So will many
infraructure and transport activities-ports, airlines, railways, and the merchant fleet. As
indicated earlier, this will place a major burden on the still-recovering Argentn capital markets,
While limitng direct Bank lending. The Bank will be strongly supportng the Govenment's
efforts to renvigorate the capital markets, but it is possible that the resources required for
needed private investments may not be forthcoming. Argentina's social security reform is still
to be passed by its legislat. Moreover, Argentina's financial histy has been more volatle
than Mexico's or Chile's; it may, therefore, take longer for foreig and domestic savers to
accept the risk of longer-term instruments. The Bank's own exerience with capital market
prqjects is limited; we shall thus be seekdng innovative approaches to the difficult issues
confronting Argentine hJnancial markets.
PART IIL THE HINANCIAL SECTOR
66. This section identifies the problems and constraints hindering financial development
addressed in the financial sector reform program (described in Part o). In recent decades,
Argentina's financial sector has been marked by a steady decline in resource mobilization.
Public sector financial institutions have grown to dominate the financial landscape. For decades,
the Central Bank has been the ultmate source of funds for the public sector and subsidies for
the private sector. Both the Central Bank and public treasuries have suffered from the weak
fiances of national and povincida public banks. Private financial instudtns have, futhermore,
been undermined by the poor macoeoomic and finmcial policies pursed by successve
governments.
A. Resource Mobo
67.   Over the last four decades, monetary expansion and segmentation of resources from the
financial system to finance public sector deficib and subsidies led to increasing uncerainty with



- 24 -
regard to prces and  xcange rates; this uncerainty, in tun, undermied financial
intermediation and stifled term savings and lending. Hyperinfl  and the forced 1990
conversion of savings depst into lower-valued public bonds damaged confidence in the
financial sstem. The size of the finandal system (mead by the ratio of M2 to GDP) reached
its lowest point ever in 1990, approaching 5 percent, down from over 40 percent in the early
1940s (see Graph 1). The total amount of bank credit declined from around 40 percent of GDP
in the early 1940s to 10 percent of GDP in 1989, with about half being chmnneled to the public
sector. Argentine bank provided less than 10 percent of business finance and virtually no
resources were generated by the equity and bond markets (see paras. 82 and 83). As a result,
owners' equity became the primary source of finance for productive mvestments. Corporate and
personal savings were channelld into either real assets or off-shore financial instruments. In
fact, holdings of Argentine financial assets abroad are above twose held in the domestic financial
institution     Since these responsive capital movements quickly arbitraged interest rate
differentals and erors in economic policy, they undermined investment financing by banks,
which restricted themselves exclusively to short-term loans.
Graph 1
ARGENTINA - LIQUID ASSET TRENDS
1940-1991
ao% ;    0 i  I  .IIII - ST   -::1               I
30%: :::  I:                 I --I:  III: ::  I: I
10%
40  46  60  66  60  a5  70  76  80  86   91
- Mi/GDP  -  M2/GDP
68.   Pwor macrecoomic policie also distorted interest rates. Unstale inflation led to
widely flucng intrest rates, frequently soarng in response to shaply increased expectations
of inflation (see Graph 2). By way of example, free rates (bankers acceptances) remained low
and stable at a monthy level of around 2 percent up to the mid-1970s, but fluchd from 2
percent to 139 percent between 1975 and 1990. Succesitve speclation about the value of the
domestic currency, coupled with unexpeced swgs in inflation, also led to unstable real rates,
whih varied from -5 ptent to 5 percent before 1975 and flucuated subsequently betwn   -27
percent and 7 percen between 1975 and 1990 (see Graph 3). Monthly ntermediation spreads
of above 2 percent were common since 1990, resulting from high lending risks and



- 25-
intermedatin costs. Unetanty of asset yields brought about the shor^t     of matdit  of
domestc         l in m         to about one week  efctvely hlting al aciviis in bond
marke.
Grph 2
Monthly Inflation and Lending Rate
1988-1992
Percentage Points
88.6   88.12   89.8   89.12   90.6   90.12    91.6   91.12
Year and Month
Inflation Rate     Lending Rate
G>raph 3
Real Lending Rate
1988-1992
Percentage Points
100
sCo
88.6   88.12   89.6   89.12   90.6   90.12   91.6    91.12
Year and Month
Real Monthly Rate



- 26 -
B. The Banking System
The Central Bank
69.  During recent decades, the Centrl Bank acted as an important istument of government
intervention. In the mid-1970s, baning intermediation was centralized, with commercial banks
pasg deposits to the Central Bank and then providing credit on the basis of allocated Central
Bank rediscounts. After the mid-1980s, the Central Bank became an important source of
servicing government bonds and of rediscounts to finance public ban  (primarily for housing
and pocal enditures). Because of noa-performing Central Bank rediscounts/loans, a
liability struct demanding payments on the basis of market interest rates, and the need to
finance an ever-increasing interest bill by new borrowing, the Central Bank becme severely
decapitalized and incapable of carrying out monetary policy, contributing to the causes of the
December 1989 hyperinflation. The Central Bank's domestic debt was subsequently eliminated
by the forced converion of commercial lank savings deposits into long-term external Treasuy
bonds salled BONEX. About 4 percent of GDP was forcibly converted into the  long-term
bonds-which were denominated in US dollars but had a market value initally less than half their
face value-thereby diminating Central Bank losses which had been generated by interest due
to commercial banks.
70.  The 1991 reform, via the Convertbility Law, essentially tuned the Central Bank into
a currency board, limiting its domestic lending through the requement that the monetary base
not exceed iteratonal resev. To reestabLish the Central Bank as an effective monetay
authority free of non-monety functons (e.g., tradefinancing and liquidator of bans) and
achieve its depoliticization, a new Charter was debated in Congrss during much of 1992 and
was finally approved in September 1992.
Public Banks
71.  Argentine bankig has been dominated by national and provincial public banks, holding
about 60 prcent of credit and deposits and owning about 40 percent of all branches. The share
of deposits at public banb increased from 40 percent to 60 percent during 1988-1990, as a resut
of the relatively higher interest ates 1hey offered to secure resrces for the public sector.
Tbese public bank have conitetly sought objectives other than profit maximizaton, including
the financing of public budgets and public entepises, politically-motivated credit allocation and
the distribudon of subsidies in the form of loan amounts, interest rates, maturities and collection
efforts. Politically motivated decisions and de-fct bankrtcy protection led to a disregard for
adverse financial results. Sub-standard loans of public banb were recently estimated at 52
percent of their total loans, as compared to 9 perct in the prvate bank. Profitability of public
banks is also poor due to oversafing and other iniiencie. Public bank employees amounted
recenty to about 57 percent of total bank employment, and public bank employees per branch
exceed those of private bank levels by about 60 percent As a result, labor costs at public banks
account fOf Up to 80 percent of operating costs, compaed to about 50 percent for all private
bank.



- 27 -
72. As a result of poor resource mobilization and performance, public banis came to depend
heavily on Central Bank financing. By mid-1991, Cental Bank rdiscounts to public banks
represented 37 percent of the public banks' liabilities as conmwed to 2.6 percent in the case of
pnvate banks. The inadequate financial management of public bank became a burden to the
Central Bank, which made substantial losses (the quasi-fiscal deficit) because its interest income
was below its interest costs and portfolio losses (see also pam. 5).
73.  National Baks. Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (BNA) is by far the largest bank, with
assets of about US$10 billion and about 13 percent of both domestic lending and deposits.
BNA's operations, fully guaranteed by the Government, have served the agricultural and foreign
trade sectors, but its chief role has been diverted to that of a lender to the public sector: 70
percent of total assets are directed to the public sector. BNA has been required to perform the
dual role of a development and commercial bank. Development baing included acting as tax
and payroll depository, providing liquidity and credit to the public sector (inluding public
enterprises), undertaldng emergency lending and acting as market leader for the modeating of
interest rates. This emphasis on development banlang has led to a loss of focus on financial
results and caused BNA to yield a low return on capital and to deteriorate into a vast
bureaucracy with an antiquated organization and systems. Operating costs are bigh, many
branches have a low productivity, and credit management is poor. (For further details on BNA,
see Annex IV.)
74. Banco lipotecario Nacional (BHN) has served as an important pillar of the Government's
housing programs since the 1940s. While the Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda (FONAVI) was
intended to fund lower-income segments, BHN generally provided housing and constrction
credit to middle-income households. High inflation and low deposi mobiliation caused the
Central Bank to become BHN's sole financier by the late 1980s. The increasing emphasis on
social concems provoked a weakening of BHNs financial status, leading to portfolio yields
below funding costs, sub-standard collecon performance and high opeating costs. Insolvency
set in during 1988/89, requiring a major resucuring of its debt to the Central Bak, operations
and lending stategies. (For a full account on BHN, see Annex V.)
75.  Banco Nacional de Desanrollo (BANADE), with assets of US$4.4 billion, was created
in the 1940s to provide Argentine industry with long-term loans. As in many other developing
counties, BANADE, as a Govenment-owned bank, suffered growing government interfrence
which led to poor credit policies, lax loan collection, and outright corruption. Res ng
efforts to convert it into a second-tier institution were abandoned and closure is under way.
76.   Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguro enceforth called WCaja") with consolidated asset
of US$1.4 billion, was created in 1915 as a postal savings institution, but now provides both
bankng and insurance services. Its banking operations have been performing poorly on account
of large lending to govermnt and public enterpnses. In contrast, insurance operatins appear
profitable, favored by a large market sbare (13 percent) and its ability to place insurance
contacts directly without brokers. Caja serves a mass clientele and counts on about 5 million
customers. (For a full account on Caja, see Annex VL)
77.  Provincial B   . Princial ba  play a major role, accounting for about 26 percent
of total system assets. The provincial banks comprise one major bank in the province of Buenos
Aires itself, Banco de la Prvincia de Buenos Aires (BPBA), and a furer 29 (including



- 28 -
municipal banks) in the other provinces. While there is some variability within the provincial
banks, in general they are in poor financial condition as judged by their capital adequacy, asset
quality and efficiency. BPBA is Argentina's oldest commercial bank and the second lrgest with
330 branches and 15,000 employees, but it remains financially precarious. The financial decline
of the provincial banks can be attibuted to their primary mandate to lend to provincial treasuries
and enteprises without due regard for banlkng pnnciples. More than 60 percent of the credit
needs of provincial governments were satisfied by provincial banks in 1990. Pressured by the
need to fund provincial finances and low deposit mobilization, many provincial banks became
highly dependent on Central Bank rediscounts to continue their operations. At their peak, such
rediscounts stood at about US$1.6 billion in June 1991. The Central Bank has encountered
difficulties in recovering rediscounts from the provincial banks, in one recent case-the
liquidation of the provincial bank of La Rioja--it recovered none of its outstanding loans. In the
past, the Central Bank has found it difficult to close non-performing provincial banks since many
are governed by provincial constitutions and/or laws which often mandate their existence. In
practice, provincial constitutions or laws dictate the key factors influencing provincial bank
operations-juridic form, choice of management and their removal, and merger or closure-so
that provincial laws have usually prevailed. The redressing of the precarious provincial public
finances is a precondition of a lasting rehabilitation of provincial banks. (For further detaUils,
see Annex VIII.)
Private Banks and Bank Supervision
78.  Banking Structure and Performance.   Between 1950 and 1985, private bank
employment tripled while real deposits stagnated. Excessive physical expanson, including over-
branching, was encouraged by subsidized Central Bank credit, controlled interest rates on
deposits, and profits from the inflation tax. Furthermore, investors were attracted to the banking
sector by the Central Bank's 100 percent deposit guarantee regime, which encouraged a high
degree of interlocking ownership with non-financial firms and banks, as well as excessive nsk
taking (see Annex VII for an analysis of deposit protection).
79. In the early 1980s, several institutions went bankrupt as a result of portfolio impairment
due to sharp changes in relative pnces (some of the bankruptcies may have been encouraged by
the then applicable 100 percent deposit guarantee). During the later 1980s, libralized interest
rates, the reduction of subsidized credits, and increased taxation through non-remunerated
reserve requirements, reduced the incentives for fuirther banldng growth. Although the number
Of private banks thus decreased from 179 to 139 during the decade, and employment decined
from 66,000 to 60,000, the number of branches increased from 3,800 to 4,500.
80.   Overall, private banks have performed better than public 's. Non-performing loans
amount to 9 percent of their total loans, far less than in public banks (52 percent). Private banks
have come to rely on fees for financial services as a main source of revenues. Today, private
commercial banks are still recovering from the shock of the January 1990 conversion of savings
deposits into public bonds, and hold large volumes of Treasury obligations created in the wake
of that conversion.  Furthermore, they are suffering as a result of lower inflation rates and
lower spreads. Hyperinflation had previously endowed banks with part of the inflation tax on
demand deposits. As prices stabilized, this important component of bank profits has been
removed.



- 29 -
81.  Bank Supervision. The poor capitalition of the baning system has been furither
encouraged by traditionally weak regulton and lax enforcement of prudential standards. The
SuPerintendency of Financial Entities (SEP), a departnent of the Central Bank, has been a weak
institution and received little managerial attention as a result of an apparent lack of Govenmuent
commitment to supervision. Historically, SEF's practies regarding loan classification and
provisioning were both lenient and inconsistently applied. Various norms regarding accounting,
liquidity and solvency, control systems, credit evaluation, liability regulation became overly
complicated and increasingly ineffective. Inadequate intenal or zation, staffing and data
processing contrbuted to ineffective processes.
Capital Markets
82.  Although a market for equities and bonds has existed in Argentina for many years, it was
virtually dormant for much of the last three decades. In 1991, the value of the daily volume of
equities trading was, for instance, only US$4 million compared with a figure of US$50-60
million in the 1940s and 1950s. Furthermore, the number of firms listed on the stock exchange
declined from a peak of 620 in the 1960s to about 170 today.
83.  Until recently, holdings of private marketable securities had been virally non-existent.
Most eqwties were held by controlling shareholders and issues of corporate bonds had been
exceptional. Several factors explain the weak private capital marlet. Macreconomic policies,
which created risks with regard to interest rates, foreign exchange rates, foreig exchange
availability, and government creditworthiness, discouraged investors and coporations from
financial commitments on a long-term basis. Taxes on capital market transactions amounting
to between 3 percent to 4 percent of the value of the asset in a round trip transaction (buying
and selling) have discouraged new issuance of secuntes and have dnven securities-trading
off-shore. The structure and incidence of withholding and capital gains taxes have also created
incentives for investment in government securities or bank deposits. Meover, development
of contactual savings was discouraged by legal and regulatory constraints, which hindered the
development of institutional investors such as pension and investment funds. The forced
placement of government secunties to finance the public sector deficit also crowded out the
prvate securities market. The securities markets have also not, until relatively recently, been
subject to a legal and reguatory framework.
PART ]IL FINANCLAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
A. Overview
84. Major financial sector policy reforms, principally to reduce the public sector's
involvement in baning, have already been initiated. Interest rates of private banks have been
detmined freely since 1987, directed credit has been waning, mnetay emission has been
restrcted through the Convertibility Law and major capital market distortions have been
removed. The downsizing of national and provincial public banks is under way. Structural
reforms, however, are not complete, and need to be extended and mantained at the institutional
level. Additional reform measures aim to shift financial intermediation away from inefficient
and insolvent public sector banks towards private financial institutions and markets. Financial
institutions will, in tum, be subject to more thorough supervision; they will be required to meet



- 30 -
minimum capital requrements of the "Basle" standard and minimum provisioning requirements.
These reforms will both encourage sector efficiency as well as reduce the moral hazard to the
govemment emerging from failing financial institutions.
85.  The Argentine Congress approved, in September 1992, a new Central Bank Charter
which prohibits the Central Bank from issuing bonds, paying interest on deposits, lending to
financial institutions for purposes other than short-term liquidity and increasing its holdings of
treasuty oblgations by more thn 10 percent per year. No explicit deposit insurance will
henceforth be provided to limit bail-outs at the public sector's expense, a cause of large losses
in the past. The new Central Bank Charter, drawn up with Bank assitance, increases
commitment to stengthened banking supervision and enforcement. Institutionally, however, the
Central Bank needs substantial strengthening.  New  organizational strutures, improved
compensation levels and staff rationalizations have been initiated, but positive results can only
be expected in the medium term. A major deficiency pertains to the accounting system which
has been considered insufficient for an external audit. As a first step, accounts will be
reconstructed to allow auditing and subsequently a new accounting system will be introduced.
This work is being carried out in cooperation with the IM and is being supported by the
PSRTAL. As a Second Tranche condition of this LoaIn, the accounts of the Central Bank
as of December 31,1992, wil have been audited in a manner satisfctory to the Bank. As
a Thrd Tranche condition, the Centnl Bank will have approved a new accounting system
and a pbla for Its Implemeation.
B. Reduced Involvement of the Public Sector In Banking
86.  To limit the need for any future Central Bank and/or budgetay commitments, the
Government is reducing its ownership of financial institutions. BANADE is being closed and
Caia is in the process of being privatized. BNA and BHN will stay within the public sector but
be further rationalized. Specific restuctunng at the level of individual public banks has been
under way since 1991.
87. BANADE. Major staff reductions (from 3,000 to 600) and branch closings have been
completed. An exhaustive revw  of the feasibility of converting BANADE into a second-tier
bank yielded the conclusion that BANADE had deterioated irretrevably. Therefore, the
Govnment decided to cease aU BANADE opewatons. The method of lihqidating BANADE
includes: (i) transferring the BANADE function-of supporting industrial development-to BNA;
and (ii) selling or otherwise disposing of BANADE's assets and liabilities. The sound assets
(about 25 percent of the total) will be taken over by BNA and the remainder will be liquidated
by the Central Bank.
88.  BHN. In addition to major staff reductions (from 4,100 to about 1,000) and branch
closings, BHNs debt to the Central Bank has been renegotated snd reduced substantaly. As
a consequence of this debt reduction, improved portfolio recoveies and lower operating costs,
BHN's dsposable cash flow (after debt service and opetg epenses) was consderably
strngthened and is esfimated at about US$150 million for 1992. This new cash flow will
primrily serve to complete the funing of its yet uncompleted housing progams (about 20,000
units). New BHN lending commitments will be on a second-tier basis only, and at tems to
cover fnding costs, the cost of operons and a positive return on capital (for further details
see Annex V). As Second and Thh  Tranche condiions, cnim          be provided that



- 31 -
no first-tier leding has occurred. Further, as Second and Third Tranche conditions, any
BHN lending sball be through financl i    es  (so-caled "Second-Tier Lending")
and granted only on the basis of terms covering borrowing costs, operating expemses and
a positive return on capital Fially, as a Second Tranche condition, BHN wlll design
rnanial perfornnce standards to be applied to BHN management and to be monitored
by the Government as owner of BEN. As a Thrd Tranche conditlon, BEN will Implement
the financial performance standards.
89. CaJa. The privatization process is well underway. Major staff reductions have already
occurred (from 5,000 to 3,000) and a law has been approved by Congress sanctioning its
piivatzaton. Legal advisors, auditors and financial advisors have alrezdy been retained and the
preparation of bid documents is under way. Market interest appears substantial and the plan is
to complete sale of the majority of shares during the second half of 1993. As a Second
Tranche condition, the Government shall issue bid documents offering the sale of the
majority of the shares of Caja. As a Third Tranche, the sale of Caja shall have been
completed.
90. BNA. To maintain financial flexibility and to be able to meet unexpected financial needs
until the Govenment's strucural reform program is substantially completed, the Government
wishes to retain full control over BNA. At the same time, the Govemment is aware of BNA's
inefficiencies and is supporting its ronaization. BNA has completed initial and decisive
measures: most importandy staff has been reduced from about 18,000 to 14,000, via an early
retirement program, geneting opeting savings of about US$50 million per year. On-going
measures include improved contacting procedures, organi     realignments and, most
importantly, negotiation of new incentive-based compenson schemes for BNA staff. To
strengthen further financial discipline, BNA will be defining financial perfomance standards
(e.g., earning an adequate return on the government's equity) limiting financial semvices to the
small- and medium-size productive sector; this would leave to the prvate banks the large
corpoate sector. In additon, to clarfy BNA's commercal bank competitiveness, its services
to the Government will be eviewed for their costs and benefits (the so-called "Government
Services Study"). As a Second Tranche Condition, the Government will provide evidence,
satisfactory to the Bank, to limit BNA's role and giving priority to private sector lending,
define rinincial efficiency standards, and continue Ike rationaliation plan. As Third
Trancbe Condiion, BNA wM have compLed with the earlier coients on a more
lmited role, efficiency standards and rtonalon plan and have completed the
Government Services Study, Inluding an action plan for its implnn.
91.   Provincil Banks. Lacing direct juisdiion, the Govemment's overall strategy in
dealing with the provincial bans has been to tighten financial standards and survismy pressure
through a regaizaton of their relatonship witi the Central Bank and the Superintendency of
Banks and to liit their exosure to their respective Govenments. As of February 1992, the
Cental Bank restricted provincial and municipal bank lending to their respective public sectors
to the sum of their own resources (equty minus fixed assets) plus public deposits. As Second
and  hid Tranche, release conditions, the Central Bank would account for the compliance
by the provincial banks with this lending limation. As noted above, the provincial banks
have been virtually cut off from access to Central Bank rediscounts. Even the rediscount
window for liquidity shortages is not available for most provincial banks as the mammum that
can be borrowed for up to seven days-6 percent of deposits-is below their outstanding



- 32 -
rediscount amounts. Since January 1992, the Central Bank has initiated a program of loan
recovery from the provincial banks. This will requi-e the provincial banks to repay gradually
all rediscounts. These banks are also being required by the Centrl Bank to adhere gradually
to the same banidng regulations as the commercial banks. This means that provincial banks
ultimately must: (i) maintain reserve requirements on public sector deposits (which are currently
exempt) at levels equivalent to those paid by commercial banks on similar deposits; and (ii) meet
the "Basle" capital standards. The Central Bank is proposing a phased period of adjustment on
both regulations. As Second and Third Tranche conditions, the Central Bank will: ()
confiwr that rediscounts have been granted only for liquidity purposes; and (ii) account for
the compliance by provincial banks with new reserve requirements on public deposits.
Reforms at the national level have spread to the provincial banks. At least four banks (San Luis,
Corrientes, Rio Negro and Chaco) are being privatized. Other major provincial banks
(Mendoza) are pursuing significant restructring. A forthcoming Provincial Reform Adjustment
Loan will support a series of provincial public sector reforms aimed at enhancing the strength
of provincial finances and supporting further restructuring of provincial banks.
C. Strengthened Banking Sector and Bank Supervisory Framework
92.  The need for improved bank supervision is made even more recessary as explicit deposit
insurance by the Central Bank has been eiminated. Under the Convertibility Law and the new
Central Bank Charter, the Central Bank will be unable to assist insolvent banls and insure
depositors. Insolvent banks will need to restructure, or close, and depositors will merely receive
limited protection (up to US$3,000) through first-claim-rights on Central Bank reserves of the
failing bank and third-claim-rights (after secured debtors and labor) on other assets. Experience
in Argentina has taught that explicit deposit insurance has not achieved its goal of maintaining
confidence and has caused large Central Bank losses. The Government has concluded that a new
explicit system, administered by a new organization separate from the Central Bank, would rum
a high risk of repeating past public bailouts. Improving supervision-cum-ttansparency is
considered a better alternative which would promote prudential behavior by bank managers and
owners, and depositors. The Government will keep this new deposit protection system under
review and promote appropriate private sector insurance schemes (for furither details see Annex
VII). To ensure transparency for investors, as a Third Tranhe condition, wide publication
of frnancial statements by financial institutions will have been introduced.
93.   The Govemment has committed itself to move towards a type of supervision that will
increasngly stress on-site inspection by the external auditors of financial institutions. Under ths
approach, the SEF's off-site supervision would identify institutions with substandard indicators.
These institutions would then be inspected by one of SEF's on-site inspection teams. This tea-m
would assess both the institution's financial condition as well as the work of the institution's
external auditor. SEF would implement on-site inspection of other financial institutions on a
random sample basis. Inspection by sampling would reduce costs to the SEF, which currently
aims at 100 percent annual coverage.
94. This model is appropriate for Argentina given its still weak civil service and budget
constraints. Greater involvement by extenal auditors for on-site inspection is made possible by
the well developed private auditing profession in Argentina. Implementation of this model will
take place in a regulatory environment that already provides for mandatory extemal auditing but
where SEF inspection has been insufficient in both quantity and quality. A key requirement of



- 33 -
is approach is a strengthening of the external auditing function to ensure that it effectively
improves the depth and quality of the information (particularly by subnittang long-form audit
reports). The Cenural Bank has already prepared new draft regulations in consultation with the
Bank. As a Second Tranche condition, a satisfactory new auditing regulation will have been
made effective.
95.  The Government's commitment to supervision is set out in the new Central Bank Charter,
which will entrust the task of supervision to a superintendent appointed by the Executive Branch,
and with strong enforcement powers. Bank closure will be the only remedy delegated to the
Central Bank Board. The Superintendent will be able to issue cease-and-desist orders; to remove
or suspend bank management; and to request closure to the Central Bank board. These key
enforcement powers are presently entrusted to the Central Bank President. As Second Tranche
and Third Trache conditions, the Central Bank wi confirm that SEF has undertaken ful
inspections of virtually alU public and private banks and that remedies have been applied
on public and private banks which are not in compliance with, inter alia, capital and
provisioning requirements.
96.   Minimum provisioning requirements were improved. Previously, these requirements
were limited to non-guaranteed loans under judicial proceedings or to bankrupt borrowers, and
to guaranteed loans to bankrupt borrowers. New prudental regulations establish minimum
average provisioning rates on loans as an increasing function of the level of default risk.
97.  The Govemment also intends to improve inspection methodology and tools, by exerting
a better quality control over external auditors, introducing improved and uniform on- and off-site
inspection procedures. Improved quality control of external audits will be achieved through
more stringent training requirements for eligible external auditors and periodic supervision of
auditors' work. Uniform on-site inspection reports will replace the existing haphazard formats;
this will be done in the context of the new supervision manual which SEF is currently preparing.
Improvements in off-site supervision methods should achieve earlier identification of poorly
performing banks.
98.  While the quantity of manpower at SEF is adequate, it will be necessary to increase both
commitment and skldl levels. Increased commitment will be encouraged by SEF's stronger
institutional role and by improvements in salaries, which have substantially declined. Skills will
be improved through  'tJing programs that are being designed in the context of the PSRTAL
component for SEF. A iull revamping of computer technology used in the ieceipt and analysis
of information is another major focus of the PSRTAL.
D. Revitalization of the Capital Market
99.   A confluence of positive factors, catalyzed by the initial success of the stabilizaton
program provided a significant stimulus to capital market activity in 1991. New issuance of both
equities and corporate bonds increased sharply over the lst year. For example, new issuance
of equities on the Buenos Aires Stock Exchange grew from just US$16 million in 1989, to
US$116 million in 1990, and US$355 million in 1991. Moreover equity market capitalization
which stood at US$2.9 billion in 1989 reached US$25.0 billion by June 1992. The bond market
is dominated by Argentine Government securities, especially dollar denominated and highly
liquid bonds. As of March 1992, there were some US$6.3 billion in Government securities



- 34 -
outstanding in the market. However, lega changes have also stimulated the corporate bond
market. Since July 1991, US$788 million have been issued in maturities of up to six years in
both floating and fixed intest rates. Fixed interest rates have been as low as 9 percent and
individual issuances have been as high as US$100 million.
100. On the supply side of the securities markets, the privatization process itself is also givng
rise to major market offerings; some 30 percent of equities market capitalization is accounted
for by the share placements of the northern and southern telephone companies. A major supply
of equities is expected in 1993, through the privatization of the national oil company, YPF.
Demand by investors was strong up to May 1992. However, market indices have fallen sharply
since then, signaling a major correction following Argentina's best perfonnance of aU emering
markets in 1991. In due course, the biggest demand for securities may come from the growing
investible resources of the pension funds ceated by the proposed reform of the social security
system. Under this reform, a pay-as-you-go social secmity system will be parially replaced by
a capitalization scheme that will generate a significant pool of long-term financial savings.
101. The securities markets are rcg.Aated by the Comisi6n Nacional de Valores (National
Securities Commission or CNV). CN V is organized along the lines of the US Securities and
Exchange Commission. It regulates all agents that transact in public securities markets and has
the authority to regulate and control the public offering of all secunties (other than primary
issues of the Govemment). While the CNV oversees the  ations of markets, it has, however,
encouraged the concept of self regulation by the main mwket bodies. In anticipation of much
grater activity in the securities markets, CNV is continuing with reforms aimed at facilitaing
the issuance, purchase and tading of securities. CNV has now reorganized to strengthen
investor protecdon and capital market development functions. Under the new organization,
CNV will improve its control procedures through better coordination between the legal clearance
and inspection functions. A specalized judicial area will strengthen enforcement and regulatory
development. Argentina's longer run capital market development efforts include: (i) increased
access to intrational marets through agreements with foreign stock exchange markets,
improved tax treatment of foreign investments, regional capital markets integration, and
introduction of intnational accounting standards; (ii) development of investor protection
procedures (control, information disclosure, ing agencia) and regulation of new capital
market products and capital market specialists; (iii) development of new sources of demand for
securities, including privately managed pension funds and investment funds; and (iv) improved
rules for competition among traders to decrease intmediton costs. IFC is becoming
increasingly involved in capital market tansactions, while the institutional development of CNV
is being supported by the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
E. FSscal lmpact of Reform Meaures
102. Future incremental fiscal benefits are aepected to exceed substntially the fiscal costs.
To a large extent, this positive balance results because major costs have already been incurred.
For insnce, staffing in the national public banks has already been reduced by 12,000 at a cost
of about US$180 million, mostly for severance pay. Another major cost which has already been
incurred are the capital losses of national and provincial public banks. Estimates indicate that
as much as US$3 billion may have been lost on account of poorly performing public bank loans.
On account of bank liquidations the Central Bank is esimatd to have lost at least US$16 billion
in respect of pay-offs to depositors, bank employee swverance payments and funds for continued



- 35 -
bank operto.  At tWis stWe of the reform process, ineremental costs involve minor
expendite related to isutional stenging (Central Bank, Superintendecy of Banks,
BNA and BHN), privatzaton costs in respect of Caja and liquidation costs for BANADE. On
the benefit side, the Central Bank will be relieved of aU bank liquidation activities as these will
now be managed by the judiciary system. Thus, the Central Bank will not be subject to
politically motivated bail-out demands. Further, the Supenntendency will be better able to
anticipate a crisis and therefore be able to intervene at a time when weak banks can so be
restructued or merged. Lastly, the institutional strengthening of BNA and BHN can be
expected to increase the yield on the public sector's equity capital. It is conservatively estimated
that the privatization proceeds of Caja will at least cover all its liabilities. Private banks
requiring restucturing wi}l not be entitled to any fiscal privileges.
PART IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Background
103. The Bank's first comprehensive financial sector review of Argenfina dates back to 1986.
A US$400 million Banlkng Sector Loan was approved by the Board in 1988 but was never
pigned becuse of a faltering macro economy. Another major sector review was completed in
1989 and otier intermittent support was given for public bank restuctug. Learning from past
lessons this new operation is being timed to accompany and reinforce economic stabilizaion.
Also, the loan builds on Cental Bank reforms supported by PSRL and the technical assistance
provided by PSRTAL for institutional support to the Central Bank and Superintendency of
Banks. The Export-Import Bank of Japan is cofinancing this adjustment loan in an amount of
US$200 million equivalent.
B. Loan Amount, Borrower and Implementing Agency
104. A fast-disbursing loan of US$400 million equivalent is proposed. The loan would
disburse in three tranches. In addition, there would be set-asides of up to US$200 million. Any
funds not neded for set-asides would be reallocated to the First Tranche. Asumig that all
US$200 million would be required for the set-aside, then the First Tranche would amount to
US$5.0 milion. The Second Tranche is set at US$95 million and the Third Tanche at US$100
million. Because of many significant str a reforms already caried out and the need for the
government to assemble import documentation, it is proposed to permit retoactive financing for
up to 20 percent of the loan amount (excluding set-asides) for payments made on or after
October 15, 1992; depending on the size of set-asides, retroactive financing may thus range from
a minimum US$40 milLion to a maximum US$80 million. The borower would be the Argentine
Republic and the implementing agency the Ministry of Economy and Pubbic Works and Services
(hereaftr, referred to as the Ministry of Economy).
C. Lean Conditions
105. The Second and Third Tranches would be conditioned on the Govenmeut maintaining
a satisfactory macroeconomic performance as detailed in the Letter of Development Policy
(Anne II) and a public expenditure program consistent with the IMF's Extended Mund Pacility.
The Development Policy Letter further detils financial sectr issues affecting Banco de la



- 36 -
Nacidn, Prvincial Bans, Superintendency of Banks and Deposit Protection. The Secretauy of
Economy of the Ministry of Economy was designated to both monitor and ensure progress, by
te different instituttons in meetng the Second and Third Tranche conditionality.
I. Conditions for Second Tranche Release:
A. Government to:
* confirm that all prior key sector reforms have not been reversed. The Iey
reforms are understood to be: (i) liberalization of interest rates; (ii) elimination
of forced investments and directed credit; (iii) adherence of Central Bank to new
Charter; (iv) issue of regulations on "Basle" capital requirements; (v) issue of
regulation on provisioning; (vi) closure of BANADE; (vii) effectiveness of
regulation limiting provincial bank lending to the public sector; (viii) effectiveness
of regulation equalizing reserve requirements between public and private banks;
(Lx) effectiveness of regulation providing for repayment of provincial bank debts
to the Central Bank; and (x) divestiture of public banks.
B. Concerning Central Bank:
s submit satisfactory audit of its balance sheet as of December 31, 1992;
* confirm that virtually all banks have been fully inspected by SEF, or external
auditor, and that SEF has applied remedies on public as well as private banks not
in compliance with capital and provisioning requirements.
i  issue regulations, satisfactory to Bank, to strngdten external auditing functions;
*  confirm that no rediscounts have been provided to provincial banks other than for
liquidity;
* account for compliance by provincial banks on adherence to lending limitations
to the public sector;
*  account for compliance on adherence by provincial banks to regulations setting
new reserve requirements.
C. Concerning Caja:
* confirm that bidding documents for the sale of the majority of shares have been
issued.
D. Concerning BHN:
* confirm that no first-tier lending has occurred;
*  confirm that any second-tier lending has been at terms coveing borrowing costs,
operating expenses and a positive return on capital;
*  design financial pefomnce standards.



- 37-
E. Concerning RNA:
* comply with initial reform program; provide evidence, satisfactory to the Bank,
to: (i) limit BNA role to give priority to private sector lending;
(ii) design financial performance standards; and (ill) continue the raonalizaon
pla.
II.   Conditions for Thrd Tranche Release:
A. Government to:
* confirm that all prior key reforms have not been reversed. The key reforms are
understood to be: (i) liberalization of interest rates; (ii) elimination of forced
investments and directed credit; (iii) adherence of Central Bank to new Charter;
(iv) effectiveness of regulation on "Basle" capital requirements; (v) effectiveness
of regulation on provisioning; (vi) closure of BANADE; (vii) effectiveness of
regulation limiting provincial bank lending to the public sector; (viii) effectiveness
of regulation equadizing reserve requirements between public and private banks;
(ix) effecdveness of regulation providing for repayment of provincial bank debts
to the Central Bank; and (x) divestiture of public banks.
B. Concerning Central Bank:
* confirm that new accounting system and implementation plan has been adopted;
*  confirm that virually all banks have been fully inspected by SEP, or extemal
auditor, and that SEF has applied remedies on public as well as private banks not
complying with capital and provisioning requirements;
*  confim that regular disclosure of financial statements of financial institutions has
been implemented;
* confirm that no rediscounts have been provided other than for liquidity;
* account for compliance by provincial banks on adherence to lending limitations
to the public sector;
*  account for compliance by provincial banks on adherence to new regulaons
setting new reserve requirements.
C. Concerning BHN:
* confirm that no first-tier lending has occurred;
*  confirm that any second-tier lending is at terms providing a positive retun on
capital;
* implement financial perfomance standards.
D. Concerning DNA:
* comply with earlier commitment on limited role, adopt financal efficiency
standards and ionali   plan;
* complete -Government Services Study" and provide action plan to implement
recommendation.



- 38 -
D. Procurement, Disbus , and Audit
106. Prorement and Disbusement. Loan proceeds-other than those needed for
setasides-would be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of general import (goods and
relevant foreig services), excluding goods financed by other bilateal agencies, luxury goods,
military equipment and other goods specificaly prohibited in a negative list defined under the
Standard International Trade Classification (SITC) or equivalent classification. Contracts below
US$5,000 would not be eligible for Bank financing: this threshold would be consstent with
saisactory access by small- and medium-size importers. For commodity imports under existing
contracts, relevant expenditures would qualify for reimbursement under the loan in an amount
not to exceed the reference average per unit FOB price published in international commodity
markets. The Closing Date would be December 31, 1995.
107. A Bank pourement assessment concluded that the public sector, government agencies,
autonomous entities, and large private firms follow competitive procurement practices fuUy
acceptable to the Bank. However, small- and medium-sized firms with limited international
exposure do not nonnally follow acceptable procurement procedures. A new pement law,
prepared with the support of the Bank, has recently been submitted to Congress.
108. Therefore, imports made by ministries, public enterprises, and private importers above
US$5 million would be procured through simplified ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines. This threshold would be consistent with the anticipated sizes of contracts and the
qperience of the borrower with Bank procedures. Pwcurement for contracts below this
threshold will be as follows: (i) public-sector contacts below US$5 million may be caried out
according to the standard procedures of the purcasing institutions; and (ii) private-sector
contacts below US$5 million may follow established commercial practices acceptable to the
Bank and requinng as a minimum two price quotations solicited from at least two eligible
suppliers (except cases in which direct contrcting is appropriate under the circumstances
specified in the Bank Group's procurement guidelines).
109. Accounting and Audking. The Ministry of Economy would be responsible for
maintaining loan accounts, and for preparing and submitting withdrawal applications.
Disbursements from the proposed loan would be made on the basis of a summary from the
Ministry of Economy detailing individual import tansations in each relevant period, together
with a certificate of payments of the amount involved, and of the eligibility under the loan.
Applications for withdrawals will be consolidated and submitted in amounts not less than US$1
million. Contracts valued at above US$5.0 million would be disbursed against full
documentation; disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures for contracts
below that sum. The Mintisty of Economy will maintain sepaate accounts to record and
monitor loan disbursements. All records and accounts in support of statements of expenditures
will be audited in accordance with geneally accepted auditing standards and submitted within
four months following the disbursement of each Tranche. Second and Third Tranche releases
will be conditioned to the receipt of the audit referring to the prior tranche.
E. Benefits and Risks
110. Benefits. There are three major benefits stemming from the reform program; fiscal (or
quasi-fiscal) savings, an end to distortionary subsidies, and a more agile and efficient financial



- 39 -
system. The reduced public owneship of bank wil reduce the fical cost requred for ther
continued, inefiint op os. To the exent prvni barnk are encuagd dther tO close
or be sold, the program wil bring fiscal savings and discipline to the provinc  as well. Part
of the reason Argenina's productive sector is so distorted has be  the povsion of subsidized
credit through the public nationa (and provincial) baking sytem. While subsidized creit has
ended, the major institutional reforms now underway will help en   there is less capacity or
incentive to retogress. Finally, the reform will incre  confidence and resoure mobilizon
and improve the allocation of financial resources in the economy, thus increasing the ovea
efficiency of financial intermediation. This will be achievd by a shift from the public secor
to more competitive private sector financial institutions. Tlghter bank regulato  and an
enhanced superion capability wil lead to a better caitalized and more competitive baking
system. Reforms relating to the capital markets will increas the avalbilt of longer-term
funding for the private sector.
111. Risks. The major risk is a return to economic instability that would undermine the
refom of a sector that is highly vulnerable to shifts in confidence. ITe financal position of
public bank could deteriate, posibly foring a wave of emergency financing by BNA and
dimming the prospects of privadzing the Caja.  nstability would also lead to further
eteriorion in the quality of commercial bank portfolios and bring about a downturn in activity
in the fledging capital market. It could also intensify the strong politica prees to slow
down the reforms of the public baning system. A further risk is the bureaucrtc letagy that
would work in favor of the maintenance of the status quo in a financ  system that has served
some interest groups well in the past. Such lethargy might also impede efforts to improve the
reguatory and supervisy fiamework for the baning system. The stong support, to date, in
the executive and legisative branches for the Converbility Law and the new Central Blank
Charter diminish the probability of these events in the short term.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
112. I am satisfied that the prposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and woud be consistent with the approved guidelin  for Bank sporL   The
reommendations for the inclusion and reeas of debt set-asides up to US$200 million in this
proposd loan has been ommended in the President's Report No. P-5914-AR datd December
11, 1992 on Debt and Debt Service Reducton Loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
AUachmtnts
January 25, 1993
Washingb, D.C.



A   ot A DJMN IAN
MATRIX OF IJIWCIAL SCU RHODE FOUCE
ACIWIIY                                   R          IM NACtED                  r          OR SBCNDUTANCEE                             FOR THUtDIRANCH
TO DAT
A. Materecocsnsm  ptogram               *ASaued to aggegat Slyoa Busca program aW extrn         0 Complhacewith -year raeoecomnde    0Copiaewd3yaracsnol
fingwish Wm    P ao t DNW k il oaes of MFP             program.                                 jPan.
3. Monay Secr isoan                     0 la_ es r       WeSeahd, morde *regultico              0 Noe aveaubs of key p    etin .         0 No evesas otter  prer reflom.
llberadi:sdlonofrecwca price an muak determined.
* C _al Rank redwsa_t raioaszd.
* Nw rdlacouss fo shoet sum lquiity puQrps Only.
A. Cad Blank Rorm                       0A a   Cera Dak Chamw was promulgate  gIv i                BCRA to submit stfctory audit of         BCRA to appove gw aoulngsysemant                4
tbo Cued BookfNdovial                                  blance sheet  of DeceaSes 31, I992.      acIon plan for its npleetin                         0
3.  Suengsbeulgot8upedutndecyof    0 S               e of FinaniBal  Sena bas been give a       0 BCRA to onfirm that virU.t  all           DCAt onfim ta viualy  l baUnb   hab
Fiancial E                          bihgher degre of eanfocempower. Regulatioo lad to    batb have been bUly inspctd by BEV ao    bee foly ipcted by SIer external aior att
improve cailton  of bk (lALE standard to be            extea audit  a  tE ht S   has a E        that S     as appled readie en pubisc swel s
grdualy achived by 1996).                              remedies on publi a we as pivato bank    pivet bas whch a- net In eanpliancwith
wh    am  a In compliance widh capial    cpil and proisoigregu
.                                                            ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~and proiinn   - .-
* Now  gplat    oan povisIonIng i-ed.
* Now  gplatos an ext        aldir sad discsue of    *     DCRA to lsu rtions, aioe toy    0 DCRA o chieve ads ory regu  disles
fiaucal aems  drfed ia consultation with Dank          to Bank, to  rengtben extal audiing      of flau_aa atenu        of an banks
_ _ _ _ _   _    _     S    a n       d s~~~~~~~~~~~~flatn..
Q DA.co Naelom  of Desrolle         Sd                     c
* 1(c  ranc cosnscmltd.                                                .
*T Liquidaton of DANADE under way.
(I) Ca do Abom y Segu  (Ca)             * Ca  peatzaio low apprved by Conrss.                    C*   to Issu  nvatoo to bid for So e       Caja to complet lal of m1ajy of Sna
majority of Sares.
* Majo stff redluctions completd.
* Preparaion of bid  document  under way.              W__    _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _      _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _



ACIM:                                     DBPORM ENACrED                                FOR SECOND TRANCJE                           FMR TOM RtNCHB
i______________               __                 ,       , TO DATE
Oli D.ucoRltOsdoNaclAMl tDN                 Mjor Gtaff inutons om pleted.                     0 Conflem tha no "*tlet huIts alsa       # Cooflenwiha so ilet.d atla  od ha occwuiud
* Msjorbuachcloaingacomplaon.
* Joofin dlt any accoed4ot leadlqb      *0 Cana dht ay mcand4wlenlp  iast tmm
* D aaeung bla  owcd by Congrany:    Uat tm to ye  postiv retr on capta.   to ie  posie ome on aia.
lSdI_b  be othalsb of aecoqMlegn.
* Dsg fiacia prfamece smandals.   0   Implen tanc ipalpe ousasards.
(0) Daem  deo l Nacida Argeti  (ONA)   * mor aff reto            comped.                      * DNA to coAply wibh ratonulion          0 DNA to comply with Bahd rale, to adop
pla; to ppo e gm la  of MNA  1a; to    fials' petancs"  saddso. and to eawtu
* Radpesarlo. pla idd.                                defn fina        peane adabrds           aioallzaapln
* Tegmof ei c foe sudy, to  view cstbefaof                                                     0 DNA to abnk study ea govu n servic  ao
mv  m. to                   in owe     wlation _o pe to hInlsa _romlactlaou.
-_    _._.          _.        __        ,an                                                  _      _ _            _
B. R     tofPovInalB  ns                *a                    * ad. Rway.
* New Cena Danudswcui d          aee d.              * CRA to coda. th  no  dlacous_          0 UCRA to confirm da no rdisc t hav been
ha  bee proddat Is for lidity    pnvi"dd oMe dka fr liq .
* Rqaymme of otading Coen Dak* M            All
loa_ under way.
* Su_aWa compl e wih blni  imiatis to public   S UlA to acoug for coplia e on               *      CRA toaccot for comp_In  onde        eto
"dct.                                                 aece to ledn lmio  to publi             ledng          to pblic   o.
rector.
* Subsadn  compace wih   reas  in amv                 * DCRA to aoun for com e on              0 BCRA to acooent fr compflnce on adherae to
.equIremen  Pul deposit to acwh    equyih Wm          adhereto sw resev  equemens.             new  reve rq_ur      .
.                 <'V
M ISS . .           R
audi for firs eassche.                  second taa.



- 42 -
4.                                                    Ppg1 of7
y eAady e9muici  e49Wwo
ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
World Bank
Washington, D.C
Dear Mr. Preston:
1.       This   Letter  of  Development  Policy  describes    the
overall  economic  reform program of the Argentine Government 'as
well  as  specific  sz.eps  to  deepen  further the reforms in the
financial  sector.   o  meet  these  objectives,  the  Government
requests continued technical and financial assistance from the.
World Bank for its full implementation. We would like to take
this opportunity to also present the macroeconomic framework
which complements the reform program.
Macroeconomic Framework
2.       Price   stability   remains   the   centerpiece  of  the
Government's economic program in achieving sustained growth and
productivity. Toward this end, the Government has made important
progress in 1991 and 1992. Monthly price increases dropped from
over      30%   at   the   beginning  of  1991  to  approximately
international   rates   by   mid-1992.  Although  consumer  price
inflation rose in the first quarter of 1992, as a result of
demand pressures associated with the strong recovery in 1991,
the increase in the value-added tax (VAT) by 2 percentage
points, and seasonal factors, the Government has designed its
monetary and fiscal policies with the objective of reducing
inflation to international levels for the remainder of 1992 and
into 1993. The Government intends to achieve an operational
primary surplus (before asset sales) of US$3,0 billion in 1992,
US$4,4 billion in 1993, and US$3,6 billon in 1994. These amounts
have been calculated to be sufficient to service projected
interest obligations once a debt reduction arrangement has been
concluded and are consistent with projected available financing.
If these levels of primary surplus prove insufficient to obviate
inflationary financing the Government will undertake further
fiscal adjustments. Monetary policy, consistent with the Law of
Convertibility  passed  in April 1991, will be designed to expand
the money base consistent with increased money demand resulting
from real growth and international inflation, and the associated
increase in net international reserves.
3.       Price  stability  and  sustained recovery of growth will
be achieved only if lasting structural reforms are undertaken in



- 43 -
Pag 2 of 7
the  public wectr   TeGvenen'   veal  eom  rgrmi
y tAoy  y a" a46 
the public sector. The Governtment 's overall reform program in
achieving its objective of price stability is embodied in two
broad areas: (i) structural improvements in the public sector
--improvements in fiscal management, revenues and expenditures,
and deepening of financial sector reforms, and (ii) policy
reforms that would foster private sector activity -- continued
commitment to maintenance of flexible and open markets free of
domestic regulations and major external trade barriers, and with
a strong financial sector to improve intermediation.
I. Structural Improvements in the Public Sactor
Federal Public Finances
4.       The   Government   has  given  increasing  attention  to
structural   improvements   in   public   sector   revenues   and
expenditures.
(a)  Federal   Revenues.  The  Government  in  December  1989
implemented a major tax reform that improved efficiency
and provided additional revenues from the VAT; the
legislation   would   be   maintained  without  allowing
additional   exemptions.  The  Government  has  provided
fiscal   bonds   for   firms   that   received   special
promotional tax incentives and will reduce benefits for
firms that have not complied with original contractual
obligations under the promotion regimes.
Capital   revenues  from  the  privatization  of  public
'enterprises   and   concessions,  which  yielded  US$2,3
billion in cash and an additional US$7,2 billion in
debt reductions in 1990-91, are expected to generate
about  US$l,9  billon  in  1992, and will continue to be
used  to. reduce  debt  (external  and  internal) or for
labor  indemnizations  rather  than  spent  on recurrent
costs.
(b)  Federal   Expenditures.   The   Government   has   given
increasing   attention   to  restructuring  the  Federal
Government. The program includes, among other things:
(i) improvements in the incentive system facing federal
workers; (ii) reductions in federal employment in the
central   administration   and   decentralized  agencies
(other than teachers and net of increase of DOI staff
comparing to 1990 program, of about 120,000 by end
1992);   and  (iii)  establishment  of  a  modern  civil
service  payments  system.  To  improve  its expenditure
controls  and  budgetary  processes,  the Government has
submitted to Congress and Congress has approved a
modern  law  of  Financial  Management  and  Performance
Control  that  will provide  comprehensive budget limits



- 44 -
AN 1E&
Page 3 of7
34 CIea4y      d   A
for the entire nonfinancial public sector, and an
adequate internal control systems and ex post external
auditing. Furthermore, the Government has prepared a
Law of Public Procurement and Asset Management that
will be submitted to Congress, which will eliminate
many of the distortions contained in the Buy Argentine
legislation. At the same time, the Government has
introduced changes in cash management and accounting
systems,   placing   government   accounts   on  a  more
transparent basis.
For   1992/93,   the   Government   will   ensure   that
expenditures are consistent with its projected program,
or less, should projected revenues not materialize, as
provided   for   by   Decree   1823/91.  For  1993,  the
Government will propose a budget to Congress that
maintains  current expenditures consistent with those in
its three year program, and that continues its efforts
to improve the quality of expenditures.
Financial Sector Reform
S. Major financial sector policy reforms have been initiated.
Interest rates of private banks have been determined freely
since 1987, public sector involvemeait in banking (including
Central Bank reform) has been reduced, monetary emission was
restricted and capital market distortions have been removed.
This confirms that no reversals are planned vis-a-vis interest
rate   liberalization,  elimination  of  forced  investments  and
directed    credit,    and   regulations   on   "Basle"   capital
requirements. To extend the structural reform, the Government
wishes to highlight its concern and policies in the following
areas:
* The Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (BNA) has a long history
of   having   contributed   significantly   to  the  economic
development of Argentina. However, the hyperinflationary
process and the unstable macroeconomic environment during
the last decade caused a downgrading of the BNA organization
and administration as happened to most of the banking
system.
To rehabilitate the BNA, the Government has already taken a
number of initial and decisive steps to control operating
costs and target new lending to the private sector. Staff
retirement   programs   and   cost  reductions  in  areas  of
procurement     were    completed    and    office-technology
improvements  and renegotiation of new and productivity-based
compensation packages for BNA staff are under way.
The  Government  wishes  to  maintain  control  over  DNA  to
IC          complement  the  private finance  system, lending at interest



- 45 -
Page 4 of 7
YAa4y Q9hW6 A1AW
rates which gradually converge to international levels. The
Government's mandate of BNA will adjust to the BNA's Charter
and   will   be  clarified  with  a  view  to  set  financial
performance standards and to achieve a positive return on
capital. Lending to the Public Sector will be limited
according to the BNA'S Charter.
Furthermore, BNA will continue its program of institutional
strengthening    and   consolidation   aiming   at   improved
management of loans, overhauling information systems and at
enhancing the productivity of its branch network.
* Provincial Banks. In addition to the promotion of fiscal
and   structural   reform   at   the   level   of  provincial
governments, the Government will encourage the restructuring
of the provincial bank sector. To expose provincial banks to
financial discipline and competitive forces, the Central
Bank will continue demanding the repayment of rediscounts
granted    earlier;   banking   regulations   governing   the
provincial   banking  sector  will  be  reviewed  further  to
eliminate  any  remaining  privileges (such as branching) and
regulations will be applied by the Superintendency of Banks
to ensure even-handed treatment vis-a-vis other banks. In
addition, major restructuring efforts are required at the
institutional level of provincial banks: employment costs
are high, in many cases exceeding 100% of total income;
technology is outdated; branching is exce3sive, driving up
other administrative costs. Privatization (i.e.selling more
than 51% of the shares) would be the most effective way to
create an interest group which would exert constant pressure
to generate positive rates of return. The Government will be
considering providing assistance, financial or otherwise, to
promote   the   privatization   and  major  restructuring  of
provincial banks. Excluded would be measures which are
suject to quick and easy reversal such as mere staff
reductions.
*   Superintendency of Financial Entities and Exchange Houses.
Despite significant efforts in the past, bank supervision
needs   strengthening.   The   Government   has  strengthened
regulation   through       enactment   of   improved   capital
requirements  that  are  consistent  with  Basle  guidelines;
tighter limitations on lending by provincial banks to the
public    sector;    uniform   regulation,   inspection   and
enforcement for public and private banks; new prudential
provisioning  requirements and expanding the role of external
auditors  and  making auditors responsive to the needs of the
Superintendency  of  Banks.  The new Central Bank Charter has
endowed   the   Superintendency   of   Banks  with  increased
enforcement   powers.      In  addition,  major  institutional
improvements  will  be  carried  out by developing inspection



- 46 -
^                                     ~~~~~~~~ANNa n
Page 5 of 7
policies and work programs, making no distinction among
public and private banks, by improving skill-levels and by
strengthening     the      institutional     apparatus.    The
Superintendency will be strengthened with updated computer
technology, off-site inspection system, uniform inspection
reports,   improved   staff   capacity  and  motivation,  and
training in systems auditing and in the update inspection
procedures.    Resources  from the World Bank's Public Sector
Technical   Assistance  loan  will  be  deployed  to  finance
training   (in  inspection  procedures,  financial  analysis,
banking practices and economic analysis) and design and
implement an automation plan.
*   Deposit   Protection.   The   experience  in Argentina  with
explicit deposit protection has been negative. Large losses
were the consequence. Therefore, the Government has put in
place an implicit system (e.g.giving preferential access to
Central Bank deposit up to US$3,000), which places a greater
responsibility on depositors, bank owners and managers.
Concomitantly,   the   bank   supervision  process  is  being
enhanced and public disclosure of financial information
regarding banks expanded. These actions are being taken to
reinforce the overall soundness of banks and to enable
depositors to make better informed decisions regarding the
degree   of   safety   afforded   by  alternative  depository
institutions. At the same time, the government recognizes
the special advantage conferred on public sector banks by
virtue   of   their   state   sponsorship,  particularly  the
advantage enjoyed by public banks in terms of deposit
safety. In furtherance of the government's objetive to
reduce the role of the state in the financial system,
government will monitor the evolution of the system to
ensure that the growth and soundness of the private banking
system has not been jeopardized as a consequence of these
actions. Specifically, in order to safeguard the ability of
the private banking sector to mobilize an increasing share
of   deposits   at  reasonable  costs,  the  government  will
monitor, among other indicators, interest rate differentials
on comparable instruments and trends in market share between
the public and private banking sectors. Should adverse
trends   emerge,   the  government  is  committed  to  refine
policies and to take actions, including supporting efforts
by   the  private  bankins  system  to  develop  a  privately
operated system of deposit protection designed to enhance
deposit   mobilization   and   to  reduce  the  risk  premium
associated with such deposits.
+             1I. Policy Reforms for Promoting Private Sector Activity
Maintenance of an Open and Flexible Economy
6.       For  the  past  several  years,  especially  since 1989,



-47 -
^  ~~~~    47 ~~~~~~ ~ANNEX n1
Page 6 of 7
Argentina has been engaged in a major overhaul of its economy in
order   to   eliminate  the  institutional  obstacles  that  have
constrained the flexibility and responsiveness of the private
sector. Trade liberalization, public enterprise and open market
reforms constitute the new direction of the economic program.
(a) Trade Liberalization: The Government has made rapid
strides towards opening the economy, both in terms of
flows of trade, capital, and technology. Taking into
account recent measures, the import tariff structure
has   been   simplified  and  the  average  tariff  rate
lowered; import tariffs are between 0 and 20 percent.
Export   taxes   have   been   eliminated,   almost  all
quantitative restrictions and discretionary procedures
that slowed the entry of trade, capital and technology
have been removed. The Government will keep the economy
open   to  international  competition;  and  will  bring
Argentina's antidumping provisions in line with the
respective GATT Code. Moreover, the MERCOSUR treaty is
now being implemented. Two regional tariff cuts have
already   taken   place,  and  it  is  the  Government's
intention, as specified in the Treaty of Asunci6n, to
reduce all intra-MERCOSUR tariffs to zero by January
1995,  while    eliminating all other Intra-market trade
barriers.
(b) open market economy: The Government has eliminated
substantial controls on prices, wages, and interest
rates as well as a complex network of subsidies and
implicit taxes. Much still remains to be done on state
reforms and opening of the markets. The Government's
reform program is not only to reduce the size of the
public sector, but also to avoid the transfer of public
to private monopolies when attracting new capital,
management   and   technology.   To   complement   other
pro-competitive   initiatives  already  undertaken-trade
liberalization,      privatizations,      deregulation-the
Government Intends to improve the existing Competition
Law to avoid undue ownership concentration and be more
proactive to ensure a-dynamic and competitive private
sector.
IyC



- 48 -                         ANNXR
Page 7 of 7
Q#W&%Id0 we woerni.a
Y4 M - E y     'ER' Qa(4CE
World Bank Sutort
7.       The  above  presentation  demostrates  the  depth of the
Government's overall public sector reform program. The
Government believes that financial assistance from the World
Bank is essential to continue and complete its financial sector
reforms.
since     yors
m      rf /
December 8, 1992



- 49 -
_inTOi  1: DUINA- Uwa.uswm12-mO
onp uiusoURIMwIssqiin"flsd054PM
1s191    IlW       tS9S-      1          m 19Iw                                   io 21t000             001
NdlmAceounW
wP grot                                              as 6.      0         4.0        4.1       4.1        4.2       4.2       4.5        4.        4
ow1hdpvow1 *np48M wm                       6.        0         (14        0.8        1.7       1.7        1.7       1.6       1.         18        2.1
MP OtJS bEN                              1#UA      15352      16.6      1"         106.s     211.0      220.8     247.0     2.         28.8       312.2
% ShwoGOP,
Towl lrNwtm                             12.5       14.0      15.S       1o        16.5       17.0      17.        16O       1s5        1t0       190
PrIw±.                                  10.0      12.4      1          14.3      14.7       15.1      15S        15        16.2       16.5      164
PiIO                                     1.8       1.6       2.0        1.7       1.8        1.0       2.0        2.2       21         2.        2.
Nd6w S&*W                               10.4        0.6      12.2       13.0      15.        14.2      14.0       15.7      164        172       17.6
Pdmb                                    11.9       7.7       OA        11.7      124        12.e      11         13.4      1t5        14.1      14.1
P1bG                                    (00)       1*        2.5        15        12         15s       1          2.3       2.8        .1        3.
Foign Saui                               2.1        4.4                   .0       2.9       :A         2.6        2.        2.1        18        1A
ICC  oved)                                 10       t1.         4.7      35.         39        4.0        4.0       42        42         4.2       4.
PSmdaremuhb^m%darutP:
TGtiCunenWR.IEIUS- 14.1                             17.0       1a1       1a6        186       1Q5        11.       1A4        16A4      1          16
TOWOC mt      ntEdzwsv                    152       15S       1"       1.         158      1is?        156       1t         16.1      14.0       14.7
kt E   NSpdw                              3.4       1.         2.0       2.4        2.4       2.4       2.4        22        2.0        1.n        1.5
s8d"Soua    simkp                         (0.1)      0.5       (0)        (1.)      (1.)       (1.5)     (1.1)      (04       (04        (0.4      (0A)
PE Non-1 1m t Sa*rm                        0.5       02         0.5       (4        (04        (1.0)     (04        (0        (04        (04       (040
P1besing                                  (04        1.9        2A        1.         12        1.5        1.8       2.        2.8        3.1        3.5
Caph lRemum                                12        1.         0.5       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
cabiEbenJu                                 16e       1.6        2.0       1.         1.6       1.9        2.0       22        2.5        2.5        2.8
Norig d PtMoSeawr                         (1.S)      1.6        o         (0.4      (04        (0.4      (0.5)      0.1.      0.4       o0         0.9
Qum-Fba   &M*w                             0.0      (04)        0.1        02        02        0.         0.        0.3       0.4        0.4       0.4
Ovd       s                               (          1.6        0.0       (         (0         (0.1)      0.0       0.4       0.8        1.0        1.5
Mmom
P*"    W                                  2.1       SA   2n     8        2.0        1         2.0        2.1       22        2.4        2A         2.5
P     ixw      gU5m MoE"#               2.A86     5,178      4,7       3,6058     5657      4.296      4.856     5.52       6,s5        M4       7,658
PwAdftwPftm &f*9(USSmIsQ                1,221     82         4,403     5,685      5,687     4,26       4,856    s552        SAN       .0S4       7.6se
frterAt5EldnowJS Mmw                    4.60      2,685      3,425     4,354      4,751     5,060      5,447     5,561      5,812     5223       4,609
PMwySuphCWVRadobl                        s1A      1922       15s8.      842        772       84.4       82       103.7      1225      133.1      156.8
E<a3NF8(magreow1hw                        2.2       1.7       aai        0.2        6.        6.t a 7   6.7        6.8                  6.8 n     09
EsowdGNFF.uROIO5P                         11.0      102        10.3      10.7       10.0      112        11A       11.7       12.0      12.3       12.6
InoetsNFS (l       hrat                   65.7      43.2        1 A        .3        4.        4.7        4.6       4.6       4.8        4.9        4.0
o                                          6.7      11.5       11.0      107        10.7      10.6       10.8      1010.9          1     1.J i0    11.0
Trade BduoJS    wlor                     4.,07    (1.139)      84         578       081      1,422      1X3       2,511      5,179     5,968      5,125
CMtAooiatB           S      4           (,748)    (170       (6582      (5.425    (U7        (5091)    (6,08      (5,2      (5.60      (5.8      (4.387)
CopilA¢oount8QJS$m illX                  G5,452    9,878      0,S70     025        6.477     6.791      6.82      6SAW       ,439      65         5,187
P1Mo                                    5,746      PM        5.142      (45"      (114       (54        t6         8V7       20        (150     (1,975
Pitha                                   1,704     10,100    6S        8,675      6         7,124      5.013     5.791      ,251      62M        7,161
Chat  ACGdlarmiOWYCUtf GDP                           (4.4      (3.5)      (4          .        (148)     (11)       CL4       (1.)      (14h       (1.4
Ddtioime
Total DObt J8$wt*                       67.09     91,04    01.111      04.195    101,914    106.S3    108,677    110844    112.087    112,420    112M2
TOW P1oS.mDebt                          6.145     70.16?    75447      75,774     75,428    7,4        78,534    7716    73.805       71,138    67.355
Fergdnbt                               0.84     6am         60.103      *7       59,7      5MM88      65,145    50,464     5692      58.178    K5w46
OamotDt                                 2SO0    18,s?       15.344    15.817     15,41     17561      1s8       162s2      14,113    12,06      11,400
T*w P OADd*tww1twP                        46.       51.7      44.7       41A        58*       562        3s5        0.7      27.7       24.6       21.6
T*W  Debt m* 0CWt GOP                      4A         6o        48        52         65        5.9        6.        62         8.1       6.1        4.9
P1dw,ra40WC    O PoI                        .2        o         2.        28         2n.       3.0        S.7       52          .0       2.9        22
Pm6ureCmdtria mGor        i_Rwa          20.7      16.        14.0      14.8       155       1.1        19        17.4      16.5       16.        12.0
PSCagoRioforPr dd.CretM                  1793      42.4       297.0     155.1      1.        168s.      160.8     207.8      24.6      275.0      82
Mm_qdPdm;
ComuUobiionirdm(umiai>~)                  150       11*         7.0       a93.0      5.        5          3A        5     .8 5s sn8
PO  ,m    sRa Mnds (187m1Or               890 .e0a            65.        6n         6a"       6ss        ea"       esa"       on        es9       6sn
UWReI                                      73        s.         4.        6          02        6          7.        7.0       7.0        7.0        7.0
M1g>uNtWOP                                 5A        7.0       7.1        7.1        7.1       7.1       7.1        7.1       7.1        ?.1       7.1
WTPMbofquu  s                 tt.Tzy1n 109 aPEb  ir_c p
b/PdmuyS 9 c  d Fo  t r56Pb@fthP1ic 8r.
qtPgm ehOMMOW9kt, 1D.                 S    N0     (at4
d/    mnly tm1m                'figl   ad _iftmdo
elP.dod  qU 3R



- 50 -
AIV
rwir2
ARGENTIA
FINANCIAL SETOR ADJUSTMNT LOAN
BANCO DE LA NACION ARG1NTINA (BNA)
1.               Badkgroumd. Alhough DNA has been In exisu ce for more than 100 yeas, its anT
Charter dates back to 1978. Its primary objective is one of a development bank supporting the f
of agriculture, foreign trade, other commercial nd indust    activies and the promotion of an orderly
regional development. While BNA is expected to earn profis, the level of profitability has been a
secondary objectve. BNA benefits from a number of privileges, the main being ta all operations of
BNA are guar eed by the Argeine Republic. Other priveges include ta foreign curreny holdings
of state entities be deposited with BNA, exemptions from a number of miscellaneous taxes and restrictions
in lending practices (tax exemption on fixed assets, accelerated foreclosure facilities), and nt being
subject to the Laws of Financial Entities when BNA opeates abroad as a private corporation. Curnty
BNA holds about a 13% share in deposis and loans.
2.               FInanal Performane. Summary balance sheets and income statements are presented
below:
inIolMxmOF
(b*1oUmh1nofUS$)
Fer 9 manls ended               Yearenled
Sep30 (u _uk)                Dearber3l (sudted)
1991                   1990              1989
918,695           676,814            496,772
ovunmsdeecuuias                                              217,194            621,248            434,433
Lam                                                         7,461,005          6,108,5S3          5,167,787
BuhLy in other coymanies                                       5,429              5,638             19,960
ak prmlisees, .quein   and mnisesansoa" -m                   761,400            86,201             3M2467
Oherw em                                                     546,117            967S77             98476
Total gusts                                                 9,909,840          9,226,031          7,319,995
Deposis                                                     4,206,816          3,164,725          2,292,3=3
Odter Iabfide                                               3,930,089          4,166,177          3,971,033
PAovWiuoM                                                     34,820             36,308             29,468
8,171,725          7,367,206          6,292,034
Caidta stock                                                 229,970            339,481                S22
Squlty ad&utmnt=s                                           1,006,949           927,156            685,447
PMoft remysc                                                  489,593           538,246             119,525
Retained mad.8.                                                11,03            53,938            221,667
1,732,11           1,81              1,027
Totsl IAabiUedu aUtl barehlMdn' eq*t                        9    3909,540      9,226,031          7,319,995
FrnWAImc kllb                                               1,098,840          3,043,114          3,052,910
naWclalwpeamnlhra                                            (734,342)        (1,718,415)        (2,122,137)
Lowan lmovio -                                                (60,940)          (244.486)          (128,524)
OCher inoon                                                  IS2,654             176,669            44,052
Opemtihgexpeases                                             057,425)           (514,838)          (231,052)
haneko$Minome                                                 38,375             45,882             53,391
* oeflmaaa-_                                                  (34,160t          (124,813)          (104,740)
monaxtyadJustmnts                                             MA67)             fiQL(MO 10
Not Inome -be1n Inloma tsx                                    12,331              7,552            3541977
In-ome tax                                                         0.              0__k              GML
Ndt beome                                                     12,331             56MAN8            3555



- 51 -
ANNE
3.           Main Assets and Liabilities. Of all loans of $6.1 billion as of December 1990, only
29% have been directed to the private sectr whereas $4.5 billion or 71% have been benefiting the public
entities and enterprises. These public sector credits, however, include $3 billion for which BNA acted
in the past as a funding channel for the Treasury by raising the funds from intrational commercial
banks and then relending them to public sector entities. The terms of the $3 billion public credits follow
the principles applied to the refinancing of commercial bank debt of the Argentine Republic and other
public sector borrowers: debt service is to commence in 1994 and end in 2006 (the so called General
Refinacing Agreement or GRA). Loan loss provisions have been set at 5% of the tot loan portfolio.
No loan loss provision was established for credits to the public sector and enterprises as the Argentine
Republic is the guarantor of such loans. Therefore loan loss provisions are maiy reated to private
sector lending and would account for about 17% of private sector credits. Among the main liabilities
figure deposits and other intemational credits. Total deposits of $3.1 billion, raised In domestic and
foreign markets in equal proportions, are denominated in foreign C70%) and in local currecy (30%).
Liabilities to the intenational public banks such as the Interamerican Development Bank and the World
Bank amount to about $2 billion representing 55% of other liabilities. The Govermment's equity is
carried at a book value of about $1.9 billion.
4.           Profitabity. BNA earned in 1990 a profit of $57 mfilion or less than 0.5% on its book
equity. Loss provisions have, most likely, been understated, because of deficiencies in setting provisisns.
Foreign branches have been quite profitable and appear to have compensaed losses in domestic
operation. One major reason for poor profitability is the high operating costs which in 1990 reached
$510 million or almost than 10% of total loans. By any standard, this is excessive.
S.            n ent and Organization. The chief executive, the vice president and all 10
detors are nominated by the executdve branch of government. Staff totals about 14,300 of which about
2,800 are employed at the head office in Buenos Aires. About 500 employees are active in the foreign
branches. And 11,000 are distnued in more than 500 domestic branches. The organiation is t
heavy and incmntves for producvy  are few. Operating and information systms are outdated and
require urgent updatng.
6.           Iltlal Reform Program. Since the beginning of 1991, BNA has bee implementing
initial reforms with the assisuce of reputable management consultants. An ealy retirement progrm
was put into effect and led to a staff reduction of about 4,000 employees. All fancing was provided
from internal funds and the total costs was eimated at about $60 million or $15,000 per employee. As
a consequence, annual personnel costs are expected to derease by about $50 million. Other reforts
include cost reductions in areas such as transfer of funds, transport and cleaning services. Ornizaonal
measures include the streamlining of managerial levels and the implemention of a new productivity-
based     on   scheme. Reviews are under way to determine the least cost solution to upgrade
office tehology. Furthermore, the branch system is being studied with a view to detemine levels of
producivity and consequent branch realignment. In parallel to these Iiti reforms, DNA has been
cosidering defining more clearly its role, its relationship to its shareholder and the need to emphasz
more promnently the earning of adequate raes of return on capital.



- 52 -
ANNEXV
ARGENTINA
FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTMNT LOAN
BANCO HUP'lECARIO NACIONAL
SUtMMARY OF ACTIVITIS 1988-1992 AND FUTURE PROSPECTS
I. EVOLUTION TOWARDS AN INSIR1MENT OF NATIONAL HOUSING POLICY
1.          The Banco Hipotecario Nacional (BHN), founded in 1886, became a premium mortgage
bak in Argentina during the first half of the 20th century with a reputation that pmted issuing bonds
on foreign exchanges. Commencing in the 1940's, the govemment began to use the BHN as an
instrument to execute its national housing policies. Housing needs were divided into three income based
segments. The private banks would finance the wealthy; a National Housing Fund, the Fondo Nacional
para la Vivienda (FONAVI), started in 1973, would house lower income families using fimds collected
from a then applicable payroll tax; and the BHN would provide housing for the middle class.
2.           BHN's new role was reaffirmed in 1980 with a new charter that explicitly states that the
BHN would execute housing initiatives of the executive branch through the Ministry of Economy. By
1984, BHN management began to grant loans at concessionary terms to meet a self-imposed definition
of housing affordability. As the BHN began to lose deposits, the Central Bank, the Banco Central de la
Rep6blica de Argentina (BCRA) rapidly increased its loans to BHN.
3.           Excessive costs of a bloated bureaucracy of over 4,100 employees (reduced to 1,200 by
July 1992) contributed to the increasingly precarious finances during the 1980's, but the BHN became
iretrievably insolvent towards the end of 1988 because the cost of BCRA funds exceeded the yield of
the mortgage portfolio.
IL     =E SLIDE TO INSOLVENCY
The financial crisis of the 1980's
4.    Inflation indexation of the mgg=  loan potoi, over 80% of BHN's assets, drove payments
to unaffordable levels. Several concessionary adjustments negotiated with the borrowers that included
interese rate reductions and maturity extensions, reduced the yield. In spite of these concessions,
collection performance did not improve and hovered around 75% of amounts faling due. Delinquent
payers were not vigorously pursued. Dispositions that permitted BHN to foreclose without resortng to
the delays of court proceedings were extremely infrequent. hnflation and lack of finds extended the
construction peiod and delayed recovery so that by June of 1988, construction loans amounted to 36%
of the mortgage portfolio. In summary, low yields, lackduster collection performance and lengthy or
delayed construction amounted to weak portfolio administration.
S. From 1986 to 1988, Ioan became the sole source of BHN financing. Savings deposits decresed
from US$1,034 million or 48% of liabilities in 1986 to US$349 million or 8% of liabilities in 1988.
During this period, loans increased from US$1,069 millions (49% of liabilites) in 1986 to US$3,900
millions (89% of liabilities) in 1988. Begining in 1986 BHN was unable to pay interest or capital on



- 53 -
Fag2 ot4
its loans with the BCRA, leading in 1988 to a BCRA freeze of new BHN housing projects and a
suspension of financing except for amounts necessary to complete projects under construction. During
1989 the BCRA suspended all financing including projects under constuction.
Neative netwot
6.    During the three years 1986 to 1988, BHN began a series of annual deficits that resulted in a
decrease of net worth from a positive US$212 million to a negative net worth of US$784 million in 1988,
a three year loss of US$996 miflion. An endemic interest rate gap between an underperforming and
underindexed mortgage portfolio and the inerest of BHN's obligations to BCRA, coupled with excessive
expenses created this crisis.
m.    IREORGANEZATION AND  E :PTLZ IO
Emerffg=  M==ure
7.    In March of 1990 Decree 435 announced sweeping reforms affecting the financia sector of
Argendna. Articles 1 and 2 prohibited the BCRA from lending additional funds to BHN and ordered
BHN to suspend its retail activities.
Permanent measures
a. BHN K1fgfnkhiQ Law
8. TIis law was approved by Congress in September 1992: it ratifies the BCRA renegotiation with
BHN (see paragraph 9), provides for a reindexation and debt relief in BHN's loan portfolio, contines
income and capital tax exemptions on housing activities and modifies BHN's charter. The significant
changes to the BHN Charter will:
a.    Remove the federal guarantee of futre BHN borrowing;
b.    Reduce the Board of Directors from 8 to 6 persons;
c.    Stipulate that the BHN will orient ("orienjar) its housing operations as a wholesale bank
("banco mayorista);
d. Specify that BHN will finance only social housing ("vivienda social unica-) occupied by
the owner;
e.    AuthorLie BHN to borrow domesticaRy or overseas with prior approval of the Executive
branch, but grats the right to issue mortgage secured debt instruments without executive
approval for amounts not exceeding 50% of the mortgage portfblio;
£     Reestablish the right to open interest bearing deposits;



- 54 -
g.    Within a wholesale profile (*perfil mayorista), authorize any acdvity available to
commercal banks;
h.    Obligate BHN to initiue foreclosure pmceedinp when delinquency reaches 5
installments; and
i.    Requre BHN to allocate 15% of its annual dis    _for a smal cities housing
program.
b. Reneodation of BHN deb
9.    lhe BCRA conceded a reindxing of BHN's debt from June 1989 to April 1, 1991, the date the
Convertibility Law became effective. By applying the BCRA finmce index based on the BCRA interbank
interest rate, the balance of US$4.9 bilion as of March 1991 was reduced to US$802 m im  payable
over 20 years in increasing montly insllmens sring at US$2.4 milion at 2.6% annual interest from
July 1989 to March 1991. Starting April 1991, the annm  interest converted to the a e interest rate
of BHN's loan portfolio excluding amounts capitalized, approxmately 3% during th period April 1991
to March 1992.
10.   After applying US$8 million payment and other small adjustmen  and the BCRA absorption of
a BHN receivable from the Mitry of Economy of US$92 million, the negouated adjusted balance as
Of March 1991 was US$702 million. The BHN has paid the monthly matuities and as of June 1992 has
reduced the debt to BCRA to US$686 million.
c. Adjustent to BHN morge loans
11.   The loan portfolio was reduced to reflect the effects of changing the index to a construction index,
a special bonus program for advanced repayment and other items. These provisions listed below
amounting to an asunding 56% of the mortgage portfolio, are preliminary estimates prepared in early
1992. Subsequent events (such as a rapid recovery of real estate values) indicate these provisions are
materialy overstated and require fiuther study.
Provisions for mortane loans April 1991
(millions of US doUars)
Amou4t
Effect of reindeCing to constuction index   $  474
Early cancellation bonus and reduction of
balances to estimated sales value           552
Provis  for bad debts                         414
Special hardship forgiveness                  138
Provision for builder claims and other        249
Tota Apri 1991                        S   am
Iation adjusted to December 31, 1991   S   L



- 55 -
hp4 .14
d. Net w  ea
12.   lhb net eff  of thesn ad       (US$4, 100 million less US$1,827) increases BHNs net worth
by US$2,273 million durn the perio 1989-1991. In other words, the accumulateld =gWj  n  worth
of US$784 milon as of December 31, 1988 was ut med ino a         net worth of US$ 1,487 by
December 1991.
IV. 1LQS PS  FOR TB
13.   Rehnforced collection effot improved loan portfolio monffly cash flow from US$11 mfllion
(73% of amounts fing due) in June 1989 to US$18 million (85% of amounts falling due) in March
1992. Further, in eary 1992 mangem    authorized an ann   capiizaon of Ierest of 6% applied
monhly at .S% per month Ihe average interest rate of mortgag loas as of June 1992 is 3% plus the
6% captaliztion for a total of 9%, which stll is wel below the limit of 12% specified in the
ConverVtily Law. Impwved co              o ected to come onse    in lat 1993, cooed
Imovements in collection efforts and an energetic application of the foredosure   e  should
result in a reduction of overdue accounts and further increases in collections. Ihe 1992 budet forecasts
Intenal cash flow vlable for lead    of approximaely US$150 million, Icuding US$50 million of
mon-mortgag portfolio relaed income such as insurance premiums, renta income and disbrement
commissions from FONAVIT and the Income tax authorities (DG0).
14.   The cash flow for 1992 and 1993 wil be used to reactvae stalled projects for some 20,000 uIts
requirin an  tmate Invesn of US$109 million each year. BHN did reWond to emergendes with
an US$6.0 mion 9%  nrascture loan to flooded part of the Prvinc of Cdrdoba and apWved a
US$250 tousand project at 10% to finance homes damaged by a bomb attack tat destroyed the Israeli
embasy in eay 1992. Other than these two emergencies, responses, BHN has not aurized any new
major housig projects, no new retail lending projects are being considered.
BHN prcrto for secod tier lending and issues
15.    he lkey test for BHN is to covert sucoeslly from iks tadition of on s ry raleng
to a financial instiuton capabls of attng long-term funds from ivests. Divod by law from
goveent                BHN must mow demonstrate a financiad probity to the martlace t
cmmands public confidence. BHN wll reWire major  1in    ona imprvements to gain investor
confidence. Punvatizaton may ultaely be requied.



- 56 -
Fagols fS
ARGENTINA
FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT WAN
PRIVATIZATION OF THE CAJA NACIONAL DE AHORRO Y SEGURO
BACKGROUND
1.         ne Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguro (henceforth referred to as Caja') is a state-owned,
st dat uteed enterprise that performs banking and insurance operations. Created In 1915 with the
name of Caja Nacional de Ahorro Postal, during its first years the Caja operated in postal savings, which
offered a popular vehicle for channeling large amounts of small savings through the postal system and
tageting the lower-income segments of the population. These deposits were invested in government
securities. To further its social orientation, the Caja later started making personal loans to low-income
borrowers.
2.         In 1945, the Caja initiated its insurance operations by offering life insurance coverages and
introducing group life in the local insurance market. In the early 50s, it began to sell automobile
insurae, and later on the Caja expanded into other general insurance products. By 1980, the Caja was
also providng the usual range of banking services.
3.         Since it began operating in the insurance field, the Caja records two separate net worths
wihin the same institution, one for banling and the other for insurance, each having distinct operating
and accountng structures, although sharing some activities such as finance, accounting and legal.
4.         Now, the Caja is a major factor in the Argentine banlkng and insurance markets. With a
customer base of about 5,000,000 dients, its presence is quite considerable throughout Argentina. Caja
enjoys a positive image in the market. Though its banking activities are not profitable, the results of its
insurance operations are sufficient to make the Caja profitable on a consolidated basis. Conclusions
regarding the profitability and financial standing of Caja are based on unaudited information. An
assessment by qualified independent auditors will be necessary for estimating the financial situation and
results of Caja. In particular, an evaluation of the adequacy of the technical reserves accumulated by its
insurance operations is essential for this purpose.
S.         In general, Caja is subject to the payment of taxes as any other private corporation.
According to its Charter, at least 50% of its annual profits must be capitalized; and usually 10% is
assigned to social purposes like construction of schools and contributions to hospitals.
6.         Significant reduction in personnel has been under way for some time. In July, 1989, it had
S,132 employees. Employees were offered about one monthly salary times the number of years in
service. As of June, 1992, the number of employees has been reduced to 3,100. The effect of this
reduction was an initial loss of efficiency which later has been recovered. The average cost of this
reduction has been approximately US$17,000 per person. The personnel reduction process started with
employees working at the head office and later continued with the branches. Seven branches have been
closed as a resut of the personnel reduction program.



- 57 -
Paplofi
7.         The head office has 1,800 employees. The branch network comprises 51 offices in all the
provinces with about 1,300 employees. Of these, it is estimated that approximately twotirds are
dedicated to insurance activities while the balance is allocated to bankdng functions.
ERIVATZATQN PlRQGAM
8.         The privatization of Caja is being undertaken within the context of the restucturing of
public banks and also would follow the liberalization of its reinsurance market through the recent
dissolution of the National Reinsurance Institute MNDER), the state reinsurance monopoly. Ihis
liberalization constitutes a fundamental step towards imposing market discipline and improving
competitiveness in the insurance sector. INDER's poor management and inadequate underwriting
practices permitted substantial abuse by many local insurance companies. INDER finally went bankrupt
with half a billion dollars in insurance premium arrears, and a similar amount of unpaid claims. A
hiberized reinsurance market will be more selective in accepting risks and this situationwill likely force
several mergers and closures of poorly-managed insurance companies which sustained their operations
on the basis of implicit subsidies obtained from INDER. The basic rationale for the privatization of Caja
would be that the Govermnent would limit its role to that of regulating and supervising adequately the
private banking and insurance companies mainly to safeguard the interests of depositors and
policyholders. The privatization of Caja also reflects the Government's decision to make a start in
leaving to the private sector the provision of finmacial/insurance services and reflects a rising realization
that mere internal productivity reforms are subject to reversal under subsequent new managements.
Level of commitment to privatuation
9.         The Government has shown a considerable level of commitment to the privadzation and has
taken many significant measures giving due regard to the transparency of the process. In November,
1991, the iuovernment issued a decree declaring the Caja subject to privatzation and appointed an
Interventor to replace the Board of Directors with the spcific mandate of carrying out the necesay
measures to implement the privatization of the Caja. A five-person commission for the privatzation was
formed in March, 1992 with two representatives from the Ministry of Economia and ftree from Csja.
This commission acts as advisor to the Interventor on the privaiaon process. Finally, the Caja
privatzation law was approved by Congress in September 1992.
Progress in the Dreparatory work by privaization consultants
10.       Ihe legal consultants already have assisted the privatization commission in prepag the
terms of reference of the auditing firm and of the financial advisor. They will also provide assistance in
the preparation of the bidding documents and in other legal matters. An important part of their work wil
be dedicated to assessing the magnitude of Caja's liability from outsding lawsuits and selecting those
which should be removed and not included in the sale of Caja.
11.        The auditing firm and financial advisors have been contracted.



- 58 -
Stren Of degmiaoscoritrs
12.        Ma     interest Indicates that potendal investors would be attacted maily by Caja's
isuan  portio and the potenti of its customer base of about five millio   nts. lhe bakln
busine  is affected by a portfolio heavfly burdened with non-pebming oans to the public and privae
sectors, and may have to be removed into a separat corporation The banking frachise ad Cain deposit
base are conidered to add to its atactiveness to potental buyers.



- 59 -
lagp 4 as
ATTACHMENT 1
BANING OPERATION
13.       As of March 31, 1992, Caja's banking assets mounted to US$932 million. Cash and
deposits were US$126 million and correspond almost totally to reserve reqir . Government
securWes comprise US$63 million investments in BONEX.
ITal 4: Financial Sun=
Bmaniig ionsd
(for the nine months endig March 31, 1992)
uU$million
Assets                      932
Loans (net)                660           Interest income              159
Public sector            476           Other Income                   25
Private sector           328            Interest expense             as
Loss provision            145
Other assets               272           Loan lose provision           48
Liabilities                 879           Operating expenses            37
Deposits                   578           Other Expenses                 7
Borrowings from
financial institutions  274            Net income                      4
Net Worth                    53
Notes The above figures are unaudited.
sources Caja
14.       Loans to the public sector represent about 60% (US$476 million) of total lending. This
figure includes a lobn made in 198647 to the Junta Nacional de Granos (G) of US$230 million made
to fiance n agricultural support prgm. Caja's officials state that this loan is almost fily matdced
by a Central Bank rediscount to the Caja. Of the balance of the public sector loans, about US$177 are
noeforming.  However, acordn  to legal reguation, loans to the public sector cannot be
provisioned becaw  it is asmued that they will be repaid because they are guanteed by the
Government.
15.       Loans to local govern    totl nearly US$68 million. Ihis pordon of the portfolio is also
non-perfoming. A loan of US$56 million to Inberama for an amusement park which now belongs to the
Municipalidad de Buenos Aires is also non-eforing.
16.       Ihereare also loans to thpreeprovincial banks amoung to aboutUS$41 million. Of these,
US$28 milion to the provinal bank of La Rioja, US$7 million to Rio Negro, and US$5 milion to
Misiones. These loans were originally short-term, but have been reflnanced at tenyear maturities.



- 60 -
ANNE V
Page S of 8
17.        The portfolio to the public sector also includes a US$12.4 million loan to SEGBA. This
loan Is past due since Jamnuay, 1989 and should normally be fully provisioned for non-recovery.
However, in view of the privatzation of SEGBA, it is expected that this loan will be normalized.
18.        Private-sector lending represented US$328 million in March 31, 1992. Ihe loss provision
of US$145 million corresponds entirely to private sector loans.
19.        The Caja ranks third in the local banking system in terms of deposits in local currency, and
sixth in tems of total deposits. The Caja captures savings largely, 97% of its volume, through its own
offices. About 3% of small deposits are mobilized through postal offices across the country (about 1,000
offices). About twenty years ago, the Caja obtained 30% of its deposits through the postal system.
20.        At present, the Caja captures 3.8% of total deposits in Argentina; 4.3% of total deposits
in local currency and 1.9% of deposits in foreign currency.
21.   About 30% of its deposits are provided to the Caja by its insurance operations; that is, technical
reserves from the insurance business of the Caja are deposited in its banking section. Its deposits are
supplied by a relaively concentrated base; less than three hundred clients provide about two thirds of total
deposits.



- 61 -
ANN =
Fags 6.11
ATIACHMENT 2
INSURANCE OPERATIONS
Intrducto
22.        The Argentine insurance market comprises 215 insurance companies with a total premium
volume of about US$3 billion. Twenty companies write more than 50% of the total premiums and Caja
is by far the largest insurance company in Argentina. It has 13% of the premiums written. It is also the
lrgest in assets, net worth, profits, branch network, and number of employees. Since April, 1992,
several changes have occurred which will affect the operations of the insurance companies in Argentina.
The liberalization of the rei=rce market through the dissolution of the National Reinsurance Institute,
the state reinsurance monopoly, will impose well-needed market discipline. This will be reinforced by
recent changes in insurance regulations which have shifted to monitoring of solvency requiremets, and
have liberaized the setting of premium and commission rates. Previously, the market operated under
minimum premium rates and maximum commission levels without due regard to monitoring the financial
condition of the insurance companies. The above changes should exert a positive influence in the
structure and performance of the local insurance market. There is still the urgent need to complement
the changes in the regulatory framework with an adequate regulatory implementation capacity to ensure
protection of policyholders. This should be done by strengthening fte supervisory and enforcement
capacity of the Insurance Superintendency. The Insurance Superintendency is currently inadequately
staffed and thus unable to monitor the status and behavior of the insurance companies with adequate on-
site and off-site inspection proceduies.
Table 1: Insurance Market indicators
Lest Local Insace Groups
(for the year ending June 30, 1991)
Premiums              Number of      Number of    Policies
(US$               employees       policies        per
million)                                            employee
Caja                     367     13.1       2,033 *          375,070       184
Sud America              114      4.1         592            188,594       319
omega                    102      3.6         628            229,112       365
S. Cristobal              96      3.4         728            233,704       321
Mbrket Total           2,795       100     20,283          4,733,333       233
*    This refers to the number of employees allocated to insurance operations
in Caja.
Source: Caja.
23.        In terms of policies per employee, Caja has very large insurance policies mainly written
for state companies. These policies include generally multiple lines and consume large personnel
resources. Nevertheless, there is sdll considerable opportunity for improvements.



- 62 -
Premnium hnow, by lSne
24.        Automobile inurance represens 38% of the Cjajs insurance portfolio. It is the most
profitable line of business in Caja. It represents a high proportion of its portfolio becae   the Caja sells
this type of inuce at lower rates than most competitors, insuring approximately 260,000 privat
vehicles and 35,000 that are sme-owned. This practice Is profitable because the Caja places its insurance
directly and not through intermediaries, agents and brokers, thus avoiding the payment of commissions,
which nonnally reach 20% of premiums. Furthermore, Caja has an exclusive agreement widh the
Argentine Automobile Club to place auto insurance through its offices. Currendy, 30% of Caja's
automobile business is placed through the Automobile Club. Caja also has a system of transparent and
quick seldement of claims. These factors are critical to its strog and profitable position in the
automobile insurance market.
25.        Life insurance generates 58% of Caja's premium volume and comprises principally group
inurance, a product tat was introduced by the Caja in dte local markeL Although not as profitable as
ts automobile business, life insurance is also an Important source of Caja's profits. Ihe Caja presenly
provides life nance to more than five million persons.
Table 2: Premium Volume by Lines
for the nine months ending March 31, 1992
(in thousands)
Automobile                         US$122,897                   38%
Life                                   184,718                  58
general insurance                       12,062                   4
Total                                  319,677                 100
Source: Caja
26.        Caja's general insurace activities include fire, marine, liabiLity, and other miscellaneous
insurance lines with the exception of automobile insurance which is done by a separate division Genea
insurance operations represent only 4% of its premium income. A private operator would certainly
exploit Caja's customer base to increase production in this lines.
27.        The loss ratiok' of the Caja during the first nine months of FY1992 was 74%. Its operating
expenses (for its insurance section) reached US$61 million during the same period. Ihis implies an
xpense ratio, expenses divided by premiums, of 19%. Adding the two ratios prduc  a combined ratio
of 93%, which results in an underwritng profit of 7% of premiums. This is better than normal.
Usally, hnmce companies produce lower, if not negative, tehi  results which are compenated
11   The los ratio is defined as the percentage of incurred losses to eaned prmums. It is a basic
indicaor of the underwriting perfomance of an insurance company.



- 63 -
AN
hg.SofS
by nvestment inoome. The Caja' insurance opations have geneaed net income of US$34 million
duing the first nine months of FY1992.
Table 3: FianCJal SummarY
Insurace  eron
(fbr the nine months ending Muach 31, 1992)
US$ million
Assets                       455       Net earned premium8          320
Investments                  199       Incurred losses              237
Premium receivables          115
Real Natate                   92       Operating expenses            61
Investment results            10
Liabilities                  250
Loss reserve                 111       Net inACOme                   34
Unearned premium reserve      51
net Worth                    205      _
Note: The above figures are unaudited.
Sources Caja



- 64 -
AN=D
Pages 1 of 
ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
DEPOSIT PROTECIION
1.         Over the past decade the authorities have taklen steps to reduce and ultimately eliminate the
explicit protection provided by the Central Bank (BCRA) to bank depositors. The new Central Bank
Charter represent the final phase in that process, and will result in the elimination of BCRA's explicit
protection for private banks.
2.        In rejecting explicit deposit protection, the authorities have opted to rely instead on their
implicit ability to intervene in the banking system when considered desirable to achieve social or
economic goals. The analysis presented in the following paragraphs suggests that the rejection of explicit
deposit protection in favor of implicit protection represents a reasonable policy decision in the Argentine
context. The elimination of explicit protection for private banks should not diminish the ability of the
authorities to resolve bank failures, will likely reduce moral hazards, and will not exacerbate the potential
for runs on private banks. Government retains the flexibility wo provide ad hoc protection to small
depositors should conditions warrant. Moreover, the sizeable official banks, access to which is widely
available, will continue to enjoy the explicit protection of the national or provincial governments,
mitigang to a large extent potential negative consequences for smal depositors.
3.         The policy decision to cease BCRA protection of private banls arguably places such banks
at a competitive disadvantage relative to the official banks. Such an outcome might run contrary to the
government's objective of reducing the role of the state in the financia sector. Ihe extent tD which
private banks are disadvantaged will depend largely on depositors ability to ascertin the soundness of
those institutions, and government is taking concurrent actions to improve financial disclosure and
enhance bank supervision. Nonetheless, government will need to monitor financia sector trends to
determine the consequences of this policy, and should stand ready to take actions to minimize any adverse
consequences. One such action might be to support the ability of banks to develop a private deposit
protection program.
4.         Explicit deposit protection finded and administered by BCRA has existed in Argentina since
1946, with 100% protection provided since 1974. The system was reformed in 1979 by requiring banks
to pay a premium for the protection and making the system voluntary. Most private locally-owned banks
elected initially to continue to participate in the voluntary system. Over the past decade, the level of
explicit coverage provided under the system has been scaled back several times.
5.         BCRA's experience with deposit insurance has been decidedly negative. The moral hazard
associated with BCRA-backed protection contributed to a large number of banking failures. With some
100 banksinmrvened in the 1980s, the cost to BCRA has been high, bot in tms of paying out
protected deposits and in terms of the burden on human resources associated with manai  the resolution



- 65 -
Pagel 2 of I
of failed institutions. Although virtually all deposits in failed banks were eventually reimbursed by
BCRA, delays in payments to depositors impaired the liquidity of depositors' funds, and during
inflationary periods, impaired their value as well. The explicit protection system thus suffered from a
lack of public confidence and was not effective in preventing runs on private locally-owned banks. Pardy
as a consequence, most banks have now withdrawn from the system. This loss of confidence serves as
a impediment to the potential effectiveness of any revised version of explicit protection.
Prior Syste gof Depst     ion
6.         In Argentina multiple tiers of deposit protection were in existance. Two tiers consisted of
the national official banks and the provincial official banks, both of which enjoyed protection of all
deposits by virtue of the legally mandated and implicit backing by the national or provincial governments.
A third tier consisted of the private foreign-owned banks, which generally benefited from no explicit
protection since they declined to participate in the voluntary BCRA protection program, but many of
which enjoyed the confidence of the public by virtue of their perceived financial strength. A fourth tier
consised of the private domestically-owned and cooperative banks = participating in the BCRA program
and hus enjoyed no explicit protection. -This group comprised the majority of the private domestically-
owned banks. The final tier consisted of eleven banks (primarily cooperatives) participating in the BCRA
program, and which, for this reason, were generaUy perceived as the weakest in the system.
1e New System
7.         The new Central Bank Charter implies only minor substantive change to the earlier system
of deposit protection. The effect is that the limited coverage afforded to the eleven small banks under
the voluntary program will be lost.
8.         The new Central Bank Charter includes provisions for the protection of small depositors.
Local currency deposits up to $3,000 will have preferential access to the required reserves maintained
by the bank holding the deposit. On average, such reserves approximate 35% of the total assets of banks,
and dtus would seem to provide a substantial base of protection. In practice however, such preferential
access may afford little protection, due to a likely deficiency in required reserves at the time a decision
is taken to close an insolvent bank. Required reserves are maiained in two forms, the current account
balance at the BCRA and the bank's own treasury (its cash and balances due from other banks), with
approximately two-thirds of the requirement maintained in the BCRA current account. For several
reasons, it cannot be assured that failing banks would meet the reserve requirement at the time their
license is revoked. First, one-third of the requirement is under the discretionary control of the bank
itself, and would likely be exhausted prior to failure. Second, the BCRA current account is an operating
account used for payments system setdements, and thus can be  hasted  as part of the routine settlement
process. Fimally, since at present BCRA utiizes a one month settlement period for required reserves,
on any given day the account may be depleted without contravening the reserve requirement.,
9.         Thus, the modifications to deposit protection are minor. In effect, they finalize the phase-
out of the explicit deposit protecton provided by BCRA that has been taking place over the last decade.
1/ Essentmay, withi any month averge daily deficient reserves can be offset by average daily excess reserves.



- 66 -
of8n 3 of 7
10.        When assessing the co uces of the elimination of explicit depos  protection in
Argentna, it is important to recognize t  the op perate distinction is not between explicit protection and
no p cdon, but rather between explick proWction and implick procion  Almost invariably,
governments will intervene to protect depoiors should conditions waamt, and implicit protecion munst
be prmed to exist. Moreover, then exists no in aional consensus as t which form of deposit
protection is preferable. lTe merits of implicit and explicit system must be evaluated in light of
individual couny c.
11.        TIhs section asse implicit protecion in comparison both to explicit deposit proteci
systems in geneal, and to the previously existing Argendne systm. The primary focus of analysis is
on the manner in which faflures may be resolved, the degree of prtecton affrded small depositors, the
extent of moral hazards, and the manner in which the threat of bank rmns will be mitigated. Overall,
implicit protection is seen as consistent with the direction of government's financial sectr policy toward
raducing fiscd burdens, minimig the role of the state and BCRA, and enhancing the role of the private
sector.
12.        Ihe aternative merts of implicit and explicit protection in dealing with bank filures differ,
but ex-ante one system is not clearly superior to anotherI Explicit deposit protection systems often
entai clear mecbhaisms for the resolution of faiing banks, in contrast with implicit protection, where
failur resolution tends to be more flexible. Since explicit systems usually provide a pool of finds to
absorb losses in bans, they can promote more expedient action. Under implicit protection, the lack of
a preiousy designated pool of resources can cause delays in addressing problems. LackIng a pool of
himds, the authorities must arrange for the issuance of government paper to absorb the losses, or the
central bank must create claims on itself. Issuing govermnent paper can be a time-consumig and
politically-charged process. The creation of claims on the central bank can have direct montay
consequences and can meet with reluctance by central bank managemenL For these reasons, explicit
proteion arguably facilitates quicker resolution of failures, whie implicit protction offers the advantage
of greater flexibiity.
13.       In the Argentine context, the dmnation of explicit desit protecti  for private banks does
not diminish the ability of the authorities to resolve faflures. The explicit protection system did not
provide a smooth failure resolution  mechnism, nor was the pool of finds creaed by the systm adequate
to deal with the level of lose in the failing bankY  BCRA therefor had been mired in diffilt
processes for resolving failing banks. Shareholders and managers had numerous avenues of recourse
agaist BCRA actions, the process was slow and cumbersome, and the costs to BCRA were great.
1 In eerl, ndeer    systm dke an duu posie slttivm for usolvig failing bankL a) liquidatwon,
ii) assisted purchas or nurge, and ih) capital i*jcton by government, usualy rensatin in  ainlti.
I/ Insufficientfuding is not an mommtrat among exphict deposit protetio syaen.



- 67 -
AwN
14.        In cont, the new Centrl Bank Charter specifies in more detail the failure resolution
process and make clear the allocation of losses. BCRAis role will be more limited and focused. BCRA
is to maetadetemnaionthat the license of a bank should be revoked, and to communicate such
decision immediately to the court Ihe court thereafter assumes decision-making responsibility with
regard to the appropr       of BCRAWs actions and the merit of any appeals by the bank, and appoints
a liquidator to manage the processA Thus, under the prior policy not only is the role of BCRA
minmized, but the need to establish a new state entity to administer falling banks is precluded. Losses
are to be borne by crediors and depositors of the failing bank. in the event of a major crisis however,
governmeit's implicit protection will likely be triggered. There must be recognition of the risk that the
lack of a previously designated pool of funds under the current policy can give ise to large and
unexpected fiscal demands.
Small DqAosito  rctn
15.        Both explicit deposit protection systems and implicit protection can afford coverage to small
depositors. With implicit protection, coverage is less assured if threatened depositor losses are of only
a small scale. The larger the scale of threatened losses, the greater the likelihood that implicit coverage
wi  be trggered. Thus, the absence of explicit protection in Argentina does not imply that small
depositors wil alwys suffer should a bank fail. The government has the flexibility to provide ad hoc
protecdon to any or all classes of depositors should conditions warrant.
16.        Beyond implicit protection, for the foreseeable future depositors in Argeina will have
access to explicitly pre    deposits. National government-backed protecdon is affrded by DNA, and
provicial government-backed protection is afforded by many provincial banks. Between them, BNA and
the provincial banks have an etensive network of branches that provides reasonable access to much of
the poplati  In addition, the private foreign-owned banks afford a source of protection independent
of the national and provincial govenmes.
Moral Hazard
17.       In comparing explicit deposit protection systems with implicit protecdon, explicit systems
are often viewed as giving rise to moral hazrds with regard to the actions of both depoors and bank
managers. In large part it was the expeience of severe moral hazards in Argentna th  precipitated the
rjecdon of explicit deposit protection. Private bank shareholders, managers and depositors benefited
from government-backed protction while bearing litde of the cost of such protection.
is.        Under the letter of the law, this issue has been resolved in Argentina with the rejection of
explicit protection. Bank shareholders in failed banks will lose their investment, bank managers will lose
their jobs, and bank depositors may lose their deposits. In recognizing the existence of implicit
protection, the potential for moral hazrds will persist, though more from the standpoint of bank
managers and shareholders. But nonetheless, the withdrawal of explicit protction has been perceived
as giving rise to an increase in discipline among banks over the last few years. Remaining moral hazards
It s fet dt decios ak  by the cout wil cary mme weigh, and tus wi ficlit expeditious failu
NIwoIUiOL



- 68 -
ANNEX
Pages S of 7
can best be mitigated by improved supervision and improved public disclosure, both of which are beig
pursued by BCRA.
Bank Runs
19.        Explicit deposit protection systems can be more effective than implicit protection in limiting
the potential scope of bank runs. An important factor in the effectiveness of explicit protection in
controlling runs is the credibility of the system.
20.        In Argentina, the explicit deposit protection system for private banks suffered from under-
funding, which impaired its credibility and thus limited its effectiveness in preventing bank runs. In this
sense it differed little from that which might have been experience with implicit protection only. As such,
the elimination of explicit protction should not exacerbate the potential for runs against private banks.
The Potential for Private Deposit Protection
21.        One conceivable alternative to implicit protection or government-backed explicit deposit
protection would be an explicit program funded and administered solely by the banks themselvesY This
section briefly examines some of the major issues involved in a private deposit protection program in
Argentina. A comprehensive analysis of the appropriate design of potential private deposit protection
programs is not attempted.
22.        A private system of deposit protection in Argentina would in effect represent group self-
insurance. In the absence of a government-backed system, it is presumed that the main purpose of a
private program would be to protect small depositors. The program might be voluntary or, alternatively,
all banks or certain types of banks might be required to participate. Ihe program might apply only to
local currency deposits, or to deposits regardless of currency. Since each bank in the program would be
to some extent responsible for the losses of any member of the group, banks would need to have a means
to evaluate the financial soundness of members, and have the power to expel members that posed
unacceptable risks. Similarly, existing members would need to have the authority to approve or reject
banks applying for membership. The program might be pre-funded, or alternatively, losses might be
absorbed by charges against the members at the time of loss. The program might entail limited failure
resolution mechanisms, though more likely this would be left to BCRA and government.
23.        Voluntary private deposit insurance may be of little interest to most of the Argentine banking
system. The national and provincial official banks already have explicit and implicit protection, and the
prospects for elimination of that protection is limited.Y As such, those banks would have litde incentive
to join the program. Similarly, most foreign-owned banks will see little benefit in the program. In fact,
those banks most interested in participating in the program will be those lacking financial soundness. A
voluntary system comprised of such banks would not prove viable.
5/ Anothe altnative, that of bank obaing depoit insurance through indeent third party _ns, has
little potenial in Argtina at this time, and thus is not evaluad here.
{/ Even if explicit protection was eimiated, these ban  woudd still benefit from the cler perception of the
impcit proction aising from their ownehip by the sate.



- 69 -
Page. 6 of 
24.        A mandatory system may be more feasible. 'The acceptability to banks of a  adatory
system will be particularly dependent on the extent to which financially sound members can be called
upon to absorb losses of the financially weak, and the veracity of the means by which the riskWness of
members is to be assessed. If the potential demand on the capital of financially sound members is great,
or the means of assessing riskiness is subject to doubt, the establishment of a mandatory program will
meet with substantial resistace. The absence in Argentina of well functioning means by which to
differeatiate among the riskiness of banks represet   a significant obstacle to the establishment of private
deposit insurance at this time.
25.        Beyond these preconditions, one conceptual alternative is a program that is mandatory only
for private domestically-owned banks. But with the backing of only a limited segment of the banking
system, such a program potentially would suffer from a lack of credibility and financial capacity, and
might prove ineffective in protecting small depositors or preventing runs on private domestically-owned
banks. Moreover, it might exacerbate the potential for the transmission of liquidity or solvency problems
among those banks. To the exent  that the progrm is publicly visible, problems in one member bank
might be perceived as creating problems for all members, increasing the potent  scope of runs against
private domesticaUy-ownedbanks. If the liabilityofmembers ofthe group is stfficiendylarge, problems
with one member may if fact create solvency problems for other members.
26.        The madatory inclusion of private foreign-owned banks would likely increase the credibility
and financial capacity of the program, but could also represent an unfair burden on foreign-owned banks.
Arguably, foreign-owned banks would be less likely to utilize the protection offered by the program, but
at the same time may prove to be the source of financial strength for the system. Nonetheless, a private
deposit inurance that is mandatory for all non-official banks offers scope for further study.
27.        Finally, a mandatory system might be comprised of all banks. In the Argentine context,
such a system would be a quasi-public program, given the size of the official banks in the banking
system. But given the bacldng of the entire banking system, such a program might reasonably expected
to be credible and exhfibit sufficient financial capacity to absorb losses in a limited mbmher of small to
medium scale bank failures. For this reason, such a system Is worthy of serious consideration. Care
would need to be taken to ensure that the official banks did not abuse their sizeable role in the program
to the detriment of the private banks.
28.        Government can promote the abilty of the banking system to develop private deposit
protection by improving the quality of bank supervision and bank disclosure, and government has
committed itself to these goals. Improved bank supervision would serve to minimize the potenal that
extraord iy large losses would be allowed to develop i individual banks. Such losses would likely
prove destabilizing to a private deposit protection system. Improved supeision coupled with greater
disclosure of financial data regardiog banks would promote the ability of the administrators of the system
to assess the financial condition of the membership, facilitating the ability of the system to control it
overal exposure to losses.
E3bhncing the Effectveness of the New Cental Bank CharXr
29.        Small depositors have preferential access to the required reserves ma ined by the bank
takng the deposit. As noted above, the protection afforded by this provision is likely to be limied.



- 70 -
Pug.. 7 of 7
Conceptually, this provision could be strengthened if BCRA was tD endeavor to isolate the required
reserve balance from the bank's current account at BCRA. In practice, however, this presents substantive
difficulties.
30.        To ensure efficient operation of the payments system, BCRA must stand ready to supply
liquidity immediately to ilHiquid banks to enable them to sete. Implicit in a decision to supply liquidity
is at the bank's illiquidity is temporary, and not a symptom of insolvency. lhis is an extremely
difficult judgement and it can be presumed that liquidity will In some Istances be provided to banks that
evenually prove to be insolvent. Under the new Central Bank Charter, all advances to banks by BCRA
must be secured. Thus, at the instance that liquidity is reqied, It is resonable to expect that the
segregated required reserve account would be tapped to enable the bank to se. If the bank in fact
proves to be insolvent as well, the BCRA reserve may be exhausted, and thus provide no source of
protection for small depositors. As an alternatve, previous arrangements could be made for BCRA to
advance fiunds against acceptable collateral for settement purposes. But it would be difficult to ensure
that previously set aside collateral would prove sufficient in the circumstance Inheren i, failing banks,
and again the segregated reserve balance would likely be tapped.



- 71 -
ANV
ARGENllNA
FIANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMNT LOAN
PROVINCIAL BANKS
A. 
1.         Tbrougbout the 1980s high and v ble inflation in Argetia produced a shap decline in
deposis and a subsequent decline in the volume of len    in the commerci baking sector. With high
fied operatig costs in the sector, the decline in len    activiq produced a sap derioration in profis
and forced many private comnercial bans to adjust. The public provincial banks, in contas, avoided
adjustment throughout the decade by resortng to rediscouns fom the Central Bank (BCRA) and tramsfers
from the public sector. Although overaU commercial banking activiy declined   oughout the decade,
the provincial banks expanded their activity, which was concentated in provkig credit to their
provnci govements. Betwee 1985 and 1991, real credit to the public sector through the provindal
banks increased by over 200 percee while total real credit to the private sector fell.
2.         The provinca bank mandate was to lend to provincial treasuries and public enterpries, and,
to a lesser extent, to provide subsidized credits to favored private firms without consideration of profit
crieria. Given that these deficits have been financed with rediscouns, the provincial banks bave been
a sgnificant source of macroeconomic instability, having led to monetary expansion. Moreover, the
proval bank financing of provincial budget deficits has pemitted the provincial goverments to finamce
their exeditr  without the need to tax. As a consequence of poor loan recovery and massive
overstffing, provincial bank pformamce indicators are extremiely poor. Estimated annual operating
losses for 24 provincial banks amounted to US$983 million for the year ending June 1991.
3.         Since the iroduction of the Convertibility Law, in April 1991, the provicia banks' stats
vis-a-vis oher banks in the financia system has deteriorated. The BCRA has eiminat new redisoou
to the sector and is recovefing debts owed by the provincial banldng sector. Wihout access to
redsu  prvincial banks have been unable to obtain resources to fince their respective govenme.
Furthemore, with higher unit operaing cost and poorer asset, provicial banks have been hard pressed
to adjust quicldy to compete with the more efficient private sector in the current economic setig of
falling spreads. As the ultimate guarantors of their provincial banks, provincidal gov em  now find
their banks a liability and are now restructuring and, in some cases, divestig.
4.         Ihe remainder of this annex presents a brief diagnostic of the provincial banking sector and
Identifies meares which would complement the governmen's ongoing reform program in the sector.
Section B provides a description of the sector and how the links between provincial banks and their
provincial governents have affected fte evoluion of the sector over the second half of the 1980s.
Sectton C  amlyzee the financial structure of the provincial baks and provies an estimate % operatg
losses genated for the period June 1990 through June 1991.
B. Evolution of Provincdl Banks During t  180s
The current structure of the provincial bankig system in Argentina daes back to the 1950s
and 1960s when many of the banks were created. Most of the banks were reatd to sevedeom



- 72 -
ANNE m
Pose2 of6
needs of their respective provinces and/or the financing requirements of their respective governments.
While these criteria are established in the originating provincial bank charters, it was not until the mid-
1980s that the provincial banks assumed an increasingly important role in the transfer of credit to
provincial governments and to firms. This section discusses some of the linkages which developed over
the past decade.
JescrliSon of the Sector
6.        In June 1991 the provincial banking system represented about 27 percent of total system
deposits and total assets in the banking system. In total, the provincial banks had 1283 branches and
47,212 employees.
Tab1it: COMMERCIAL BANKS' STATISTICS, JUNE 1991
No. of     No. of      Total       Total
Banks      Branches    Deposits    Assets
-USS Milions-
Prov & Mun              30         1283        3899.2      10250.1
Total System           167         4501       14314.9      39474.4
7.           The provincial banking system experienced a rapid expansion over the second half of the
1980s. Between 1986 and 1991, the sector opened new branches at a rate of 20 per year and employment
increased by over 3,200. Monthly wage costs escalated to 234 percent of montlly income from services
and commissions and employee productivity, as measured by deposits managed per employee, declined
to less dtan 50 percent of employee productivity realized in the private commercial banking sector.
Clearly the banks became providers of employment, as well as credit for their respective governmen.
ProIncial Governments and Demand for Credit
8.           Ihe rapid expansion of the provincial banking system reflected the increasing credit
demands of the provincial administrons and favored firms. With poor prospects for borrowing abroad
or for placing domestic bonds, provincial governments typically relied on their provincial banks to finance
their growing deficits over the decade. Provinci deficits after transfers doubled from US$800 million
beteen 1981 and 1985 to US$1600 million for the 1986-1990 period, and averaged US$1.2 biUlion for
the decade. As illustated in the chart below, provincial bank lending to the public sector followed a
smilar trnd, with the share of credits to the public sector in total credits increasing steadily from 15



- 73 -
Pge3s oft6
percent in 1987 to nearly 50 percent by June 1989Y This behavior contrat sharply with the pfivate
commercia banks during the same period, where voluntary lending to the public sectr averaged less than
2 percent for the period and never amounted to more than 4 percent of totl credits. Lending to the
public sector from the private bank mostly took the form of compliance with high remunerated reserve
requirements.
9.           Provincial bank credits to the public sector were ftequently used to finance the
administraion  of the respecive provinces and public enterprises. The provincial electric company
Servicios Electricos de Buenos Aires (SEBA) has been the primary recipient of over US$2 billion from
the Provincial Bank of Euenos Aires, and the provincial energy and water companies of Cordoba
(Empresa de Energfa de C6rdoba (EPEC) and Empresa Provincial de Obras Sanitrias (EPOS),
respectively), represent nearly 40 percent of total credits extended by the Social Bank of Cordoba.
Additionally, the City Bank of Buenos Aires and the Provincial Bank of Misiones have extended 34
percent and 79 percent of their total credits, respectively, to public enterprises.
10.          Governments relied ewxensively on credit through the banking system to finance their
deficits. In 1990 total direct loans to the provincial governments through the commercial banking system
amounted to uS$1.3 billion, or 92 percent of their total credit needs for the year. National public banks
extended approximately 25 percent of the total, but provincial banks were most important, exending over
US$810 million in total direct loans to the provincial governments for the year.
i1.          In addition to direct loans through the banks, the provinial governments access additional
short term credit through two principal sources: drawing on official deposits, and the unified provincial
checking account (Pondo Unificado). The unified checking account is a combined balance of all official
accounts in each province. Treasuries may draw on their respective funds, up to a specified limit of the
total, to use as a loan without interest charges or a specified maturity. In 1990 Treasuries drew on these
aounts for a total of US$192 million. In addition, governments drew on their deposits to access an
aditional US$88 million in credit. The provinces with the largest shares in bank loans were the province
of Buenos Aires with 29 percent of the total and the province of Corrientes with 24 percent of the total.
Evne ngthe  Lrovincial Banks
12.          The increase in provincial bank lending during the prolonged detization was made
possible largely through liberal access to BCRA rediscounts. As deposits in the provincial banks declined
by over 100 percent in real terms between March 1986 and December 1989, rediscounts to the sector
grew, peaking at 140 percent of deposits in 1989 and averaging approximatly 100 percen of tot
deposits for the period. The provincial banks/provincial governments made a significant contribution to
the hypa tion of 1989, receiving US$1.7 billion in new rediscounts for the year. The largest
beneficiaries of the rediscounts were the Provincial Bank of Buenos Aires with 6 percent and the
Provincial Bank of Mendoza with 12 percent of the total rediscounts.
13.          The abrupt chge in BCRA rediscount policy between 1989 and 1990 reflects the
attempted stabilization episode implemnuted in the beg _ing of 1990. New rediscounts were eliminated
to the sector and deposits continued to decline throughout the first quarter of the year, but the provincia
G./    Data for tde period under view for the Provincia Bank of Buenos Aires and the Municil Bank of Buenos Aires
were not avilable. As the provindal banik of Buenos Ai were impotnt poviders of credit to the pubHc
saor, pectnta in Fiue I shoud be coonsidered as lower bounds although the trend would not cha.



- 74 -
?q04 416
banks did not adjust. Given the pressure of enormous provinial govenment deficits, aveagi  US$1.6
billion for the year Aft transfe, the provinci banks entered the Inte k market to aise fimds- Their
demnd for funds were a factor in the high real interest rates of the period. BY July 1990 the provical
ban  of La Rioja, Canca, and the Provincia Bank of Buenos Aires had become highly indebted on
the  htbank market. In total, the provincial banks rised more than US$500 million on the Interbank
market in 1990. However, he provincial bans sufed large deposi losses beginnin in late 1991. The
BCRA intervened to cover the illiquidity and prevent the crisis from spreading, bailing out the provincial
banks with US$430 million in new rediscounts during the last month of 1990 and the first two months
of 1991. The Provincial Bank of Buenos Aires had become so indebted that its creditor banks in the
private sector formed a club to recover their debts. First semster firs  for 1991 reveal at
notwid   i - I', e increase in rediscounts to the sector in the begining of 1991, the BCRA has
recovered US$76 million by the end of the first semester of 1991.
C. Prvncdal Banks in the Emergng Fliandal Ssm
14.          Provincial governents are seeking to limit their exposure to loss making isutions
which no longer have access to discounts to finance provincial deficits through resturing andlor
privazation. This section analyzes the fmancial structure of provincial banb and provides an estima
of annual operaing losses generated between June 1990 and June 1991.
P8biil Balnk Assets
15.          Most pvincal bank assets consist of loans; of these, 55 percent are loans to the public
sector. Prviil banks with the highest ewposure to their governments include the prvincial banks of
Corrientes with 71 pecent, and Catamarca with 88 percent. It Is no coincidence tha these are the same
provinces which had average annual deficit to GDP raios well above the 1.9 percent average for the
rovinces throughout the past decade. The Provinci Bank of Buenos Aires, with 62 percent of aU assets
in the public sector is extremely concentrated; most of this exposure has resulted from loans to the
provicia electric company which were partly used to finance construction of a power plant.
16.          In the private banks total loans also constitte a large share of assets, at 52.2 percent, but
only 0.5 percent of total assets are loans to the public sector. Provincial banks with loan ratios near the
privae sector average are the municipal bans and the provincial banis of Mendoza, Chaco, Neuquen,
and Sua Juan, where the provici bans were partly used to extend agricultua credits and to subsidize
private firms. In the case of Chaco loans are highly concentated in the cotton sector.
17.          The practice in Argentina has been to condr all loans to the public sector as
performing, evan though they are In many cases well overdue. Even now, reportig procedures vary
across provinci banks and many are not In a position to provision fully against poor debts to he public
sector. In the case of La Rioja (now closed, for example, 98 percent of loans were reported as normal
and approxltely the same share of the loan portfolio was extended to the treasury.
ntlW  uk UnbNte
18.          A review of provici  bank liabilities revs the extent to which the banks have
dqended on sources of finance othern pdvate deposis to continue opeaton. Based on data for June



- 75 -
ANNKm
pweS Sod6
1991, the provincial banks have been highly dependent on sources of funds other than private deposits,
while the private banks finance more than 50 percent of their transactions with deposits from the private
sector liabilities in the bankm belonging to the group of underdeveloped provinces, and least Important
in the provincial banks with the highest concentration of rediscounts in total liabilities are Rio Negro with
57 percent, Santa Cruz with 31 percent, Entre Rios with 31 percent, Salta with 61 percent, Tucuman with
37 percent, Chaco with 34 percent, Corrientes with 66 pecen and Misiones with 71 percent.
19.          Public deposits have been the second most important source of funds In all of the
provincial banks, averaging 11 percent of their total assets. Banks which have a high concentration of
public deposits in total liabilities are the Municipal Bank of Rosario at 67.4 percent, Tierra del Fuego at
35.3 percent, and San Juan at 33 percent. Public deposits have been most important in The Provincial
Bank of Buenos Aires, where they represent as much as 52 percent of total liabilities and 88 percent of
total deposits in the institution.
20.         Piven the regulatory framework which prevails in Argentina, public deposits were a
lucrative source of funds for the banks since they did not receive intest and they carried, until recendy,
a reserve requiremnt of 0 percent. The provincial banks have preferential access to these funds: 62.8
percent of total public deposits are mainained in the provincial banks and only 1.5 percent are held in
the private bans.
21.          Private commercial banks have been much more successful in attrating dollar deposits
an the provincia banks. During June 1991, dollar deposits represented 26 percent of total provincial
deposits, contrasted with 66 percent in the private banks. Seventy percent of total financia system dollar
dposits are maintained in the private banks, whereas the provincial banks have captured only 16 percent
of these deposits. Of the provincial banls, the two banks in Buenos Aires have been the most successful
in capturing doLar deposits, with 3 percent of total deposits in The Provincial Bank of Buenos Aires and
6 percent in the Municipal Bank of Buenos Aires.
22.          Between April and September 1991 total dolar deposits in the system have grown fiom
US$5.1 billion to US$7.1 billion, with 19 percent of that increase going to the provincial banks, 23
percent to federal official banks and 58 percen going to the private banks. The disrbuon of the rapid
growth in dollar deposits since April 1991 reveals the uncompetidveness of the provincial banking sector.
An Estimation of Ograting  msses
23.          An estimate of operating losses of the provincial banks yields another measure of the
pressure eerted by the faiing baniks on public resources and the extent to which the provincial bas
need to adjust in the new envionment. The previous discussion revealed Importa deficiencies in the
finani structre of the banks. A compounding factor on perfomance has been overstg in the
sector has also adversely affected performac-labor costs average 70 percen of total cost and icome
from services and commissions covering only 25 percet of totl opern cost.
24.          In 14 of the 24 banks reviewed, financi costs exceeded total income for the year that
is, even if operating costs were zero, these banks would have lost money. The provincial banks of
Corrientes, Misiones, Salta, Entre Rios, and Jujuy had the highest finacial costs in toal income for the
period June 1990 to June 1991 all exceeding 200 percent. This result is partly due to the practice of
capitalizing interest payments on debts owed to the BCRA, but it also reflects the impact of distress



- 76 -
ANNEX v
borrowing on operating performance. The results of the calculations show that the total operational
deficit for the 24 banks for the period June 1990 through June 1991 was US$983 million in 16 of the 24
banks. These losses were financed through rediscounts, interbank borrowing, and increases in public and
private deposits.
25.          The share of costs in total income reveals the highly negative impact of overstaffing on
operating performance. In every bank in the sample, labor costs absorbed at least 60 percent of total
adjusted income. In the case of Misiones, labor costs exceed total adjusted income generated for the
period. Only the provincial banks of Neuquen, Chaco, and Mendoza have reasonable wage costs in total
income, all below 10 percent.



- 77 -
ARGENTINA
FINANCLIAL SECrOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Ilmetable of KaX Evets
(a) rmie taken to prepare:                   10 months (with Bank involvement dating back 5 years)
(b) Prepared by:                             Argentine Government in cooperation with the Bank
(c) First IBRDi mission:                     1987
(d) Appraia mission departure:               July 1992
(e) Date of Negotiations:                    October 1992
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness:      February/March 1993
(g) List of relevant PCRs and PPRs:          N.A.



- 78 -
AS=
ARG;ENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTM           LOAN
TIRE STATUS OF IBRD OPERAITONS IN A IA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1992)1/
Loan or                                                           Amount (less
Credit Fiscal                                                     cancelatons) Undisbrsed
Number      Year        Borrower          Purpose                 (US$ milLion) (US$ million
Fully dibrsed Loaws (32)                                               3,174.9        0.0
2592        1985        YPF               Gas Utilization &
Techn. Assistance            180.0        35.6
2641        1986        Argentina         Water Supply                   60.0        36.0
2751        1987        Argenti_          Power Engineering              14.0         0.2
2793        1987        Argentina         Smal & Med. Scale Cr.          68.1         4.3
2854        1987        Argentina         Power Distribution            276.0        169.2
2920        1988        Argentina         Municipal Development          120.0       94.7
2970        1988        BNA               Agriculture Credit            106.5          1.0
2984        1989        ArgeMina          Social Sector                  28.0         13.0
2997        1989        Argentina         Housing Sector                 30.0         0.6
3015        1989        Argenina          Tax Admin. T.A.                 6.5          1.0
3280        1991        Argentina         Provincial Development        200.0        195.5
3281        1991        Argentna          Water Supply                  100.0        99.0
3291        1991        Argentina         PERAL                         300.0        148.4
3292        1991        Argentina         PEREL                          23.0         17.7
3297        1991        Argentina         Agricultual Senices            33.5        29.9
3362        1991        Argentina         Pub. Sector Refonm T.A.        23.0        20.0
3394        1992        Argentina         Pub. Sector Reform (PSRL)     325.0        162.5
3416        1992        YPF Sociedad      Hydrocarbon Engr.              28.0        24.0
Anonima
3460 ai     1992        Argetina          Second Tax Administrion        20.0        20.0
3520 2t     1992        Argetina          Yacyreta II                   300.0       300.0
35i1 2a     1992        Argentina         Flood Rehabilitation          170.0        170.0
TOTAL                                                                  5,586.6
of whih has been repad                                                1,722.1
TOTAL NOW OUTSTANDING                                                  3,864.4
AMOUNT SOLD                                                               12.8
of which has been reraid                                                 12.8
TOTAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                                         3,851.6
8==C=
TOTAL UNDISBURSSD                                                                 1,542.6
==CS2
1/ Does not reflect tbe final cancellation of the Housing Se&or LoaL
Z/ Not yet effective



-79 -ANEX
ARGENTINA
STATEMENT OF IFC TNVESTIENTS
As of September 30. 1092
(USS MiSon)
Ordind Gross Comitments        Hold  Held by Undisbursd
rFsa Yea                                                               IFO   IrC   Paftiai-            by   Partici- (Inaludng
Commited           Oblir                       Type   suwins           Loan Equity  pants   Tol    IFC    pant   Partcipantt)
t16             a/ AclnderSA                   Stol Produc@s             2.90     -     076    3e6       -        -           -
1960            at Pepelers Rio Pauan* SA.     Pulp and Pap             3o00      -       -     3.00     -        -           -
161             at FadeaasA                     MotorVeh. &Aceossoins    1.23     -     0.28    1.51     -        -           -
162              a/ PoeSAlC                     Petrochemials            3.05     -       -     3.OS      -       -           -
1965,72         a/ Ce<lJ Argentina              Pulp and Paw            S.25      -     425   12.50       -       -           -
1969            of Editorial CodaS A.           Printng and Pubushing   4.60    2.00    0.40    t.00      -       -           -
1098,75          8/ ODalmSideroSAIC             Iron andSSt"            14.75     -     2.25   17.00      -       -           -
1971,73         aI Calwa Avella.eda $A.         Cement                   5.50     -       -     5.50     -        -           -
1971484,/a88        Apargals SAIC               Texliles and Shoe       37.53    5.00    7.50   W0.43   10.35     -          1.63
1e97785         a/ SWex S.A                     Food mndFFood roes      21.00     -       -    21.00      -       -           -
J7&'811182f87193   JuanMineW SA.               CMet                    35.50    4.50   67.5C  107.50   16.60    14.53       4.50
i8a$1971/89"i       MauhSA.                     Pulp and Par            24.50    4.2    3.00   31.75   18.40      -          0.08
'1479.2182/792      IpeoA.                      Petiooehoicals          21.00    1.10    9.00   31.10    1.00    8.25        0.00
1979183/84          AlpeS SA                    Food & Food Process      521    1.60      -     8.81    1.61      -           -
198416              PefoquimicaCuyo SA.         Chemicl &Petochem.    21.00    4.00   21.00   46.09   14.55    11.84         0.40
1986                Rop-a                       CapitalMarket             -    0.05       -     005    0.05       -           -
1986            a  AtanortSA                    Chemicels                7.00    1.00     -     8.00      -       -           -
1956/87             Sadcr                       Capil Makes               -    2.05       -     2.05    2.00      -          1.00
9i899le             Sanc Robet SA.             Capita Markets           26.00    2.00     -    28.00   16.57      -          7.40
1908                 arovagloyZowraquln        GeneralMantuttrw:ng     13.00      -       -    13.00    7.58      -           -
1987100             Hidra il                    Crude Petal.&Nat Gas    80.00     -    2760  107.60   13.91      3.84
1987/9C,91          TerminWa SA.               PottfadlltZ. 1Z50    0.00    0.00   12.50    8.54                 000
1$88                As1 CAPSA Lindero          Energy                  12.38      -       -    12.38    3.75      -           -
1988                sung* y Sam                Food and Food Process    40.00     -       -    40.00   24.00      -           -
i9S8                Aroor SAIC                  Genra Manufatuuig      12.00      -       -    12.00    6.00      -           -
198;93              Bridas LnderoSAPIC         Energy                  55.60   15.00   60.00  130.60   50.00      -           -
19888               SaN                        Owev.Finance            20.00      -       -    20.00   16.89      -          340
19"8,2               anoooRioCL(SRLP)          Oev.Finance             50.00      -       -    50.00   47.00      -         18.05
1988.92             Chirete                    Chemlca&Pefrohehm.         -    6.62       -     6.62    6.61      -          1.86
1980                Com. Geraldo lnvesiones   FinaneilSevi                -    0.10       -     0.10    0.10      -          0.09
i989                Chluidoa                    Energy                    -    4.5        -     4.95    4.90      -          0.12
19S9                AIC                        Securitiesnanal instt      -    2.00       -     2.00    2.00      -          2.00
1-9i                Banco Frances,              Owv. Finc               15.00     -       -    15.00   15.00      -           -
1989,92             Astr CAPSA                  Energy                  50.00     -    43.00   93.00   38.55    43.00
199                 CIP                         Financial Srvices         -    0.07       -     0.07    0.07      -           -
1990.91             Petrokn                     Chemicals& Pekochem.    20.00     -    11.00   31.00   20.00    11.00         -
19.9                Bancode CroditArgentino    Financislvlce              -   10.00       -    10CO   10.00       -          5.50
1992                Polbuw                     Chemieas                   -    7.00       -     7.00    7.00      -           -
1992                PetoleraArgentfe San Jorge  Energy                    -   17.00       -    1700   17.00       -          0.86
1992                MSA goet                    CapitalMarkets            -    0.18       -     0.18    0.18      -          0 02
1992                Frigoroo lop4aten          Slaughtering. Preparing  12.00    1.00    6.00   1900   13.00     600         600
1992                OleaginoosO"to             Sunflower Seed Agribus.    20.00   -    15.00   35.00   20.00    15.00
TotalIe  C4mm enmt b/                             654.90   91.47  278.63 1025.00
Lees: Cancellations. Trminatons. Raymwt & Set     304.50   19.60  165.16  489.26
ToWl Commitnts Now Hdld el                        350.40   71.87  113.46  535.73  422.27   113.40       82.90
Po"elnct Commrneitm:
Perolers Argenina San Jorge  Energy                15.00   10.00   35.00   eo.00
(Huabalo soak)
COeto                      Chemical & Pctrochernica    .00    -    11.00   19.00
anam  Pie CL (BRLPa         Oevelopment Finace        -       -    20.00   20.00
Malrla Pan"                Agribushess             12.00      -     6.00   18.00
FenoPrs P-mp_sno           lnlrauture              11.00    2.00   16.00   20.00
kg. Emerging arket         Financial Sevis            -    4.00       -     4.00
sub-t"Ol                                          46.00   16.00   8.00  150.00
Todl CommItmen_ Held and Pending Commibens    3040   87.7  201.40  68873
Toal Undisbred Commtmnt                            40.8S   10.05    2.00   8290
a/ Investmem  which hav been fulk cancelled. terminated, written-off sold, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Gross Commitments cwtd Oa Wov*d and signed poActs.
c/ Hel Commitmen    onsiod dicburid and undisbursed ivefaterme.



-80 -                                    XII
Page 1 of 2
Poi  Insues In Proposed FY93-97
Lending
Objectivewlnstrument                          issues
Consolidatng Macroeconomic
Reonn
Public enterpnse reform    *  Divestiture of all PEs owned by Ministry of
Defense
* Imprved anti-trust regulation
* Improved flexibility of labor contracts
Re-establishment of external   *  Support for debt agreement between Argentina
creditworthiness              and commercial creditors
Provincial adjustment      *  Reform of provincial finances
* Downsizing of provincial governments
*  Transfer of public service responsibilities to
provinces
*  Privatization of provincial enterprises and banks
InsIitionid Stiengthening
Energy and Power           *  Privatization/concessioning of electricity
transmission and distribution
*  Restruching of National Nuclear
Commission/priatization of unfinished nuclear
power project
*  Completion and privatization of Yacreta
* Establishment of regulatory frameuerks and
agencies
lansport                   *  Road concessioning/transfer to provinces
* Privatization of ports
*  Removal of botlenecks in export corridors
Provincial and municipal   *  Developing capacity to plan, build and maintain
development                   infrastructure
Ruml infrastructure water  *  Improved water management
supply, and swerage        *  Improved living conditions and sanitation in urban
poerty areas
* Strengthen regulatory ftamererk for priAtized
vytems
Agricultural, industial    *  Restoration and reform of applied research,
services                      extension, vocational training and quality control
* Restructuring of national institutes including
partidal user fee financing
*  Libetion of trade in consultant services



-81 -
Page 2 of 2
Objective/Lnstnmient                           losuts
Matemal and child healt    *    rgeting of social assistance on vulnerable
and nutrition                  groups
* Reduction of maternal and infint mortality and
malnutrition
* Improved delivery of social assistance
Health                     *  Tansfer of public services to provinces
* Refocusing on basic health care
* Reforming national health insurance program
Education                  *  Transfer of secondary education to provinces
* Introduction of university tuition
Rural environment          *  Sustainable use of natural resources
*  Pricing and regulatory framework in forestry
o Management of native forests
* Soil conservation and chemical use
* Property issues
Urban environment          *  Market-based solution to water pollution problem
* Industrial pollution control
Festedng Pdvate Sector
Development
winancial sector adjustment   *  Liquidation, privatiaton or downsing of federal
and provincial commercial banks
* Enforcement of minimum capital and provisioning
requirements
* Improved disclosure of bank financial statements
*  Implementation of Cental Bank reform
Capital markets development  *  Improvement in term intermediation performance
* Secondary market development
*  Improved regultory management and enforcement



