Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15461
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3558-AR)
MARCH 19, 1996
Public Sector Modernization and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - Peso
1991 (Since April 1)      1.00  =      US$1.00
1992                      1.00  =      US$1.00
1993                      1.00  =      US$1.00
1994                      1.00         US$1.00
1995                      1.00  =      US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFJP       Administradores de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones - Pension Fund
Administrators
BANADE   Banco Nacional de Desarrollo - National Development Bank
BCRA       Banco Central de la Republica Argentina - Argentine Central Bank
BHN        Banco Hipotecario Nacional - National Housing Bank
BNA        Banco de la Nacion Argentina - Argentine National Commercial Bank
BPBA       Banco de la Provincia de Buenos Aires - Bank of the Province ofBuenos Aires
CAJA       Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguro - National Savings and Insurance Bank
CNV        Conision Nacional de Valores - National Securities Commission
DDSR        - Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DGI        Direccion General de Impuestos - National Tax Authority
EFF        - Extended Fund Facility
ESW        - Economic and Sector Work
FONAVI   Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda - National Housing Fund
FSAL       -Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP        - Gross Domestic Product
IDB        - Inter-American Development Bank
IFC        - International Finance Corporation
IMF        - International Monetary Fund
LIBOR      - London Interbank Offered Rate
PE         - Public Enterprise
PERAL      - Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PEREL      - Public Enterprise Reform Execution Loan
PSRL       - Public Sector Reform Loan
PSRTAL    - Public Sector Reform technical Assistance Loan
SECAL      - Sector Adjustment Loan
SEF        Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras - Superintendency of Banks
SSMTAL   - Social Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan
VAT        - Value Added Tax
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ...............................................                                                                                  i
Evaluation Summary ...............................................                                                                      ii
PART  I.  Program   Implementation  Assessment ...............................................   I
A. Background ...1............................................ 
B.   1993-94  Performance                         .............................1.................. 
C. The Mexico Crisis                                           .............................                           2
D.  Program   Objectives:  Design  and  Evaluation .................................. 3
E.  Achievement of Objectives ...............................................                                           6
F.  Major Factors Affecting  the  Project .                                . ............................................. 8
G.  Bank  Performance ...............................................                                                  8
H.  Borrower Performance                                           ............................................... 9
I.  Program Sustainability, Assessment of Outcome and
Assessment of Outcome                                       .............................                        9
Key Lessons Learned                                        .............................                         9
PART II. Statistical Annex ..1.............................................. 
PART III. Comments by Borrower and Co-financier ....................................... 20






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3558-AR)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial
Sector Adjustment Program in Argentina, for which Loan 3558-AR in the
amount of US$400 million equivalent was approved on February 16, 1993 and
made effective on the same day, a remarkable signal of borrower ownership. The
responsible Division Chief and Taskmanager were Messrs. Paul Meo and Stefan
Alber, respectively.
2.    The loan was fully disbursed about 15 months ahead of the original
Closing Date of December 31, 1995. The first tranche was disbursed in March
1993, the second in December 1993, and the third in September 1994.
Cofinancing for the project was furnished by the Export-Import Bank of Japan in
an amount of US$200 million equivalent.
3.    The ICR was prepared by the Public Sector Modernization and Private
Sector Development Division and was reviewed by Mr. Orville Grimes, Project
Adviser. The borrower and cofinancier provided comments which have been
incorporated into the ICR and are reproduced (unedited) in Part III. This ICR is
based on file material and on perspectives gained from our continuing
involvement in financial sector operations.



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 3558-AR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    This Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) was timed to provide
another building block in support of Argentina's ambitious structural reform
program, which had been launched by the Menem Administration in the early
1990s. The Bank's assistance for structural reforms was built on extensive
sectoral studies published as the following reports: Banking Sector Report
(1986); Social Sector in Crisis (1988); Tax Policy for Stabilization (1989);
Financial Sector Review (1989); Reforms for Price Stability and Growth (1989);
Provincial Government Finance (1990); Argentina: Towards a New Federalism
(1992); Finance Review (1993), and other sectoral studies of agriculture,
industry, energy, transportation, and water services. Reform implementation was
then reinforced by a substantial rise in Bank lending such as: Trade Policy Loans
in 1987 and 1989; Provincial development and adjustment loans (1990 and
1995); Public Enterprises Reform Adjustment Loans I and II in 1991 and 1993; a
Public Sector Reform Loan in 1992; a Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan in
1993; and a Capital Markets Loan (1994). Further, a series of technical
assistance loans complemented adjustment lending and provided continued
analytical underpinnings to reforms (for all related loans - see Table 2).
Program Objectives
2.    The FSAL was designed to consolidate and advance the progress in
reforming the financial sector. The success of prior macro and sectoral reforms
was predicated on the recovery of private sector investments for which resource
mobilization by the banking system represented a major constraint. Decades of
high inflation had shrunk the private banking system while encouraging a greater
presence of public banks, both federal and provincial. With the strengthened
macroeconomic framework, private firms were expanding investments and the
FSAL was expected to stimulate the private banking system to increase resource
mobilization. Finally, the FSAL was timed to coincide and support Argentina's
"Brady Deal," its debt and debt service reduction arrangements.



iii
3.    The FSAL's specific objectives were to: (i) reduce the role of the state in
the financial sector; (ii) strengthen the banking sector and its supervisory
framework; and (iii) provide resources for Argentina's debt and debt service
reduction arrangements. To achieve these objectives, the Loan Agreement and
Letter of Development Policy required the maintenance of a macroeconomic
policy framework consistent with the objectives of the FSAL, and satisfactory
progress in carrying out agreed actions described in Part I of Schedule 5 (Second
Tranche disbursement conditions) and in Part II of Schedule 5 (Third Tranche
disbursement conditions) before each tranche release. Reform progress was
predicated on steps already taken in the areas of monetary reform, the new
Central Bank charter and restructuring, supervision and regulation of banks, and
restructuring of public federal and provincial banks.
Implementation Experience and Performance
4.    The FSAL's thrust was to bring about major restructuring or closure of
the four large federal public banks: the Argentine National Commercial Bank
(Banco de la Nacion-BNA), the National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de
Desarrollo - BANADE), the National Housing Bank (Banco Hipotecario
Nacional - BHN) and the National Savings and Insurance Bank (Caja Nacional
de Ahorro y Seguro - CAJA). This was fully achieved. Other FSAL objectives
of continuing reforms in the Central Bank, the Superintendency of Banks and
provincial banks were also met in a timely manner and the final, third tranche was
disbursed on September 2, 1994, well ahead of the original Closing Date of
December 31, 1995. Given the progress of institutional strengthening,
Argentina's banking system was in a stronger position to withstand and recover
from the sharp 1995 shock to its banking system brought about by the Mexican
crisis.
5.    Furthermore, the "Brady deal" supported by the FSAL, as well as
Argentina's major reforms, contributed during 1993 and 1994 to consolidating
Argentina's return to foreign credit markets and the subsequent inflows of foreign
private financing.
6.    The FSAL was designed around reform actions that could be easily
monitored. Bank performance and fast-track processing benefited from intensive
previous sector work in Argentina, especially in the restructuring of the Central
Bank and the major federal public banks. With respect to disbursements, the
Bank required the auditing and control procedures on import documentation and
debt documents in keeping with Bank guidelines.
7.    The borrower was strongly committed to FSAL reforms throughout loan
implementation and complied in a satisfactory manner with all loan conditions.



iv
Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
8.    The overall outcome of the FSAL is satisfactory as attested by the
implementation experience and performance. The major question concerns the
longer-term sustainability of an ancillary aspect, namely, a reduced public sector
role in deposit insurance and liquidity financing given the financial sector's
vulnerability to sudden and abrupt shifts of confidence, a risk clearly discussed in
the Memorandum of the President. The 1995 Mexico crisis brought about a
sharp drop of confidence, prompting massive deposit withdrawals (especially in
weaker private and provincial banks), stretching the capacity of banking
supervision and exposing the lender-of-last-resort capacity of the Central Bank
under Argentina's Convertibility Plan. However, given the progress of
institutional reforms and of banking supervision, the banking and financial sector
was better able to weather the crisis and is now well on its way to a recovery.
While the Bank and the IMF had tried to encourage more provincial bank
reforms when preparing the FSAL--such as more forceful actions by the
Superintendency of Banks--the political will had not sufficiently matured at the
time of loan preparation. The Mexican crisis quickly turned many provincial
banks from financial sources into obligations; this caused provincial governments
to forcefully seek Bank support for the privatization of as many as twenty of their
banks. A new loan to support this effort (Provincial Bank Privatization, Loan
3878-AR) was approved in May 1995. While the restructuring of federal public
banks and Central Bank/Superintendency institutional improvements are unlikely
to be reversed in the medium-term, there are ancillary FSAL areas in which the
public sector has modified its position and increased its role, such as on deposit
insurance and financial assistance by public financial institutions. With Bank
assistance, another Trust Fund was created to promote the consolidation of the
banking system (Bank Reform Loan, 3926-AR).
Lessons Learned
9.    The main lesson of the FSAL concerns the value of an early beginning of
a policy dialogue on financial sector reforms, of deepening the understanding of
policy options and of systematic opinion-building towards a substantial consensus
on remedial actions.
10.   The second lesson concerns the importance of a continuing and long-
standing working relationship with national authorities. The Bank's credibility
resulted in quick and substantial agreements on historic institutional changes such
as major public bank restructuring, BCRA strengthening, modernization of
banking supervision and following-through with Basle-type norms on capital
adequacy and loan portfolio classification and provisioning.



v
11.   A third important lesson for future operations is that sustainability' of an
objective of a reduced public role, such as in areas of deposit insurance and
liquidity assistance to the banking system, is not assured despite initial
government commitment, in cases where systemic risks threaten the banking
system.
12.    The fourth lesson is one learned many times before. Adjustment loans
should measure reform progress by focusing only on a limited high priority set of
actions to which the Government is firmly committed. Fortunately, the FSAL
was so focused.
1 Sustainability concerns the probability of a project maintaining the achievements generated in
relation to its major objectives. In evaluating sustainability as likely, unlikely, or uncertain,
major factors, such as the following, should be taken into account: borrower commitment,
policy environment, institution management effectiveness, economic, technical, financial and
environmental viability, social impact, local participation and incentives for participants to
sustain the project.



-T  '
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    More than four years have passed since Argentina, emerging from the
severe economic crisis of 1989-90, adopted the Convertibility Plan in April 1991.
This innovative plan restructured Argentina's economic landscape. From
extreme hyperinflation, the country moved relatively quickly to an annual
inflation rate of 3.9 percent in 1994 and 1.6 percent in 1995. Output and
productivity increases were remarkable until 1995, with annual Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) growth averaging 7.7 percent. The GDP fell by an estimated 3.7
percent in 1995 but positive growth is expected to resume in 1996. The initial
consumption-led boom has matured into a healthy pattern of investment and
export-led growth. Privatization of state assets has been far-reaching, and much
more successful than expected. Economic restructuring with a rigid labor
market, however, has resulted in increased unemployment, currently about 16
percent. To deal with problems caused by an initially overvalued exchange rate,
the Government has launched a number of microeconomic reforms, particularly
in labor legislation, with the aim of reducing labor costs and increasing
productivity.
2.    The Convertibility Plan was part of a comprehensive reform program at
the national level including reforms of the state and financial institutions,
privatization, and extensive market liberalization. Central to the Plan was the
conversion of the Central Bank into a quasi-currency board; the Argentine peso
was linked at par to the US dollar. While fiscal adjustment has occurred at the
federal level, provincial fiscal deficits persist, mainly because of the continued
inability of provincial governments to contain current expenditures and
sufficiently increase their own-source revenues. The combined fiscal deficit of
the provinces was equal to 0.7 percent of GDP in 1994.
B. 1993-94 Performance
3.    With the dynamic evolution of the economy, demonstrated by a shift in
consumption to export-and investment-led growth, GDP in 1993 and 1994 grew
by 6 percent and 7.1 percent, respectively. Gross fixed investment reached 20
percent in 1994, associated with increased national and foreign savings. Exports,
which were affected by declining international prices in 1992-93, rose by 20



2
percent in 1994, with manufactured goods exports exhibiting particular
buoyancy, growing at an average of 27 percent in 1993-94. Better international
prices for grains and improved economic conditions in Brazil contributed to
export growth. In 1994, imports grew at the fast pace of 27 percent. Imports of
capital goods led the expansion, indicative of the acceleration in investment and
the restructuring of the economy. Financing trade and current account deficits
was not difficult, given Argentina's improved access to international financial
markets until 1995.
4.    With the increased accumulation of international reserves, and the
reduction in bank reserve requirements earlier in 1993, monetary aggregates
expanded at a fast pace. Bank credit also grew at a fast rate, reflecting the sub-
par, but rapidly improving, monetization of the economy. Interest rates on peso
deposits declined from 25 percent in December 1992 to 9 percent by early
December 1994, just before the Mexico crisis began. Interest rate spreads,
although also declining, remained high, indicative of the continued segmentation
and shallowness of the financial system. Towards the end of 1994, approximately
half of Argentina's financial assets were dollar-denominated, and interest rates
and spreads on dollars were much lower than those for peso-denominated assets.
Continued capital inflows sustained the growth in aggregate demand. Liquid
international reserves at end-November 1994 stood at US$14.5 billion, a
significant increase since the end of 1992.
C. The Mexico Crisis
5.    Argentina was particularly vulnerable to the events following the surprise
Mexican devaluation of December 1994, due to its relatively heavy reliance on
foreign capital inflows (financing in 1994 an estimated current account deficit of
3.6 percent of GDP), the inflexibility of its exchange rate regime, and the need
for a strong financial system under the Convertibility Plan. Indeed, Argentina did
not escape the "Tequila" effect; its stock and bond markets suffered precipitous
losses, and the Central Bank lost more than US$5 billion of its reserves between
December 1994 and end March 1995. Partly generated by memories of past
confiscations of deposits, the disruption of the Mexican economy triggered a
banking crisis. Loss of confidence led depositors to withdraw a total of about
US$8 billion from the banking system, thereby causing a major liquidity crisis.
As a result, interest rates increased to levels unprecedented since the onset of the
Convertibility Plan, and in March 1995, the banking system was on the brink of a
fatal run on deposits. The Central Bank, a quasi-currency board since 1991, was
rigorously constrained in its ability to provide liquidity.
6.    With promptness of action--and IMF, IDB and IBRD assistance, the latter
providing two new US$500 million adjustment loans supporting provincial bank
privatization and private bank consolidation--the banking crisis has subsided and
the economy now appears poised for a recovery. Central Bank liquidity lines are



3
now being repaid, the situation of failing banks is being addressed, deposits in the
banking system and international reserve levels have reached pre-crisis levels,
and the stock market has recovered from its 1995 losses.
D. Program Objectives: Design and Evaluation
7.    Back in 1993, the FSAL's general objective was to extend Argentina's
massive structural reform program to the financial sector. Prior to the FSAL,
actual financial sector reforms had progressed only sporadically and partially.
While the Bank had strongly encouraged reform in prior years in the context of
loan supervision and sector work, the actual restructuring of BNA, BANADE
and BHN had not advanced significantly. However, the Central Bank charter
was modified in the wake of the 1989 Financial Sector Review, and initial
institutional modernization including that of the Superintendency of Banks' was
then supported by the Public Sector Reform Loan (3394-AR) and the 1992
Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan (Ln-3362-AR). After the
FSAL, financial sector assistance continued with the approval of a Capital
Markets Loan in 1994 (Ln-3709-AR) and the Provincial Bank Privatization (Ln-
3878-AR) and the Bank Reform Loan (Ln-3926-AR), both approved in mid-
1995.
8.    The central focus of the FSAL was to reduce the participation of federal
public banks in the banking system, to further strengthen the Central Bank and
the regulatory system. Loan conditionality also required a macroeconomic policy
framework consistent with the objectives of the Program (Schedule 1, Sections
5/6(c) to the Loan Agreement). The FSAL reforms were considered essential for
the mobilization of external and internal resources needed in unprecedented
amounts to finance the backlog of deferred investments and the need of
privatized enterprises and sectors. Stimulating the recovery of private sector
dynamism and private banking system, on which Argentina's future growth
depended, was a major aim of the program.
9.    The FSAL's specific objectives included: reducing the public sector's role
in the financial system; strengthening bank solvency as well as the supervisory
framework; and providing resources for Argentina's debt and debt service
restructuring with foreign commercial banks. Some key reforms had been
initiated before Board presentation of the FSAL:
*  Monetary Reforms: liberalization of interest rates, elimination of forced
investments and directed credit, and implementation of the new BCRA
charter;
* Regulatory Framework and Supervision: issuance of banking regulations
modeled on the Basle regulations for solvency, minimum capital requirements



4
and preparatory steps for the provisioning and new regulations on external
audits;
The restructuring of public banks: liquidation of BANADE, preparatory
steps for the privatization of CAJA; the limitation of BHN to second-tier
operations only, BNA's initial downsizing actions and incipient regulatory
reforms affecting the provincial bank sector.
10.   The prospect of the FSAL caused authorities to break with past in-action
and to accelerate public bank restructuring which had been long considered and
which had been supported by the Bank's own technical work, as well as by major
consulting studies. For instance, BANADE had been seeking restructuring
alternatives but concluded on the basis of a major consulting study, and the
Bank's persistent advice, that liquidation was the only alternative. The FSAL
accelerated appropriate liquidation steps such as drastic staff and branch
reductions. Banco Hipotecario had failed as a.first-tier lending institution on
account of poor loan quality, and was seeking a revitalization as second-tier
bank. The Federal National Mortgage Administration of the United States
provided valuable technical assistance in preparing the ground for a credible
second-tier institution and an increasing capacity to securetize its lending. Banco
Nacion had suffered from excessive bureaucracy and lack of focus in its major
services. With the help of a major consulting effdrt, it narrowed its business to
those it had a competitive advantage (agriculture and small business), began
significant early retirements and streamlined its organization including the
upgrading of its banking technology.
11.   The Program's specific conditions were described in Part I of Schedule 5
to the Loan Agreement (Second Tranche disbursement conditions) and in Part II
of Schedule 5 (Third Tranche disbursement conditions). They required:
(i)    The Central Bank - to submit a satisfactory audit of its balance sheet
and to introduce a new accounting system;
(ii)   The Superintendency of Banks (SEF) - to produce evidence that it had
inspected virtually all banks operating in the country, and had begun
enforcing new capital requirements and provisioning norms for all public
and private banks as well as required banks to take remedial action when
needed; that regulations had been issued strengthening the external audit
requirements of financial institutions in line with the new prudential norms
issued by SEF; that regular disclosure of accounting statements of
financial institutions had been implemented; and that no rediscount had
been provided other than for liquidity purposes;
(iii)   Provincial Banks -The central bank to provide evidence that it had not
provided rediscounts, except for liquidity needs, to provincial banks and



5
that these banks had complied with lending limits to the public sector, and
also had adhered to new regulations on reserve requirements;
(iv)   The National Savings and Insurance Bank (CAJA) to sell the
majority of voting shares controlled by the Borrower to entities not
owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Borrower;
(v)   The National Housing Bank (BHN) to implement a new lending policy
with no first-tier lending and with second-tier lending to be provided at
terms that covered borrowing costs, operating expenses and a positive
return on capital. BH-N to design and implement financial performance
standards.
(vi)   The Argentina National Commercial Bank (Banco de la Nacion) - to
limit its role in the economy and give priority to private sector lending
with emphasis on the small- and medium-size productive sector; and,
second, to comply with its reform program, including staff reductions;
design and adoption of financial efficiency standards; implementation of a
rationalization plan; completion of a study reviewing costs and benefits of
providing services to the Government (Government Service Study) and
provide an action plan to implement the study's recommendations.
12.   To meet the needs of Argentina's debt and debt service reduction
program, the FSAL's Loan Agreement also provided that the Borrower use a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan for the implementation of the Debt
Reduction Plan. Schedule 1 established a Category 2 for a set-aside of loan
proceeds of up to US$200 million. A reallocation of the set-aside fund was
permitted under the Loan Agreement if deemed appropriate.
13.   The Bank had worked closely with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) in the design and supervision of the Bank's adjustment operations, in
formulating the country assistance strategy and in carrying out economic and
sector work. Early in 1992, the Government reached an agreement with the IF
on a three-year program under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF). The main
feature was for the Government to achieve a primary surplus before privatization
of about 2 percent of GDP to meet debt service obligations without recourse to
the inflation tax. Fiscal performance under the EFF was satisfactory during
1992-93, but some programmed targets for the fiscal accounts were not met in
1994. The IMF approved an extension to a fourth year of the Extended Facility
(EFF) and increased its amount in March 1995. In September 1995, Argentina
drew US$383 million and the IMF review of the third 1995 quarter is under way.
Bank and Fund staff consulted each other during the preparation of the FSAL
and thereafter. The Fund staff, while supportive of the FSAL, requested Bank
staff to attempt to reform the weak provincial banks. While Bank staff agreed
with the need for provincial bank reforms, the fact that the provinces were the



6
decision-makers in this area, and the national government had limited influence
with them at the time, restricted Bank capacity to include more far-reaching
reforms.
E. Achievement of Objectives
14.   Macroeconomic Policies. The FSAL followed a series of adjustment
operations geared to solidify the stability of the Argentine economy and eliminate
its chronic macroeconomic imbalances. Macroeconomic results of the package
of reform programs have been positive. Inflation dropped substantially (only 1.6
percent in 1995), the public sector deficit was drastically reduced and GDP grew
up to the end of 1994. This progress was interrupted by the Mexican crisis in
1995, but economic growth is expected to resume in 1996.
15.   Sectoral Policies. The FSAL made reforms happen which had been
repeatedly and amply discussed within prior sector work and which had been
included in prior lending (adjustment and technical assistance loans). The major
prior reforms related to the approval of a radically new Charter of the Central
Bank (BCRA) which, on one hand, prohibited BCRA from issuing bonds, paying
interest on deposits, lending to financial institutions for other than short-term
liquidity purposes, and increasing its holding of Treasury obligations by more
than 10 percent a year. Also, the Charter required BCRA to strengthen banking
supervision and the enforcement of prudential regulations. After much debate,
the Charter had not provided for deposit insurance or direct public assistance in
liquidating banks (President Report, para. 92 and Letter of Development Policy,
para. 5, Deposit Protection). At least up to the end of 1994, the FSAL had
accomplished its broader objectives in the financial sector of: (i) reducing the
State's role in the financial system; and (ii) strengthening the banking sector's
solvency as well as its supervisory framework were accomplished. Up to the end
of 1994, the banking system expanded in terms of assets, deposits, loans and
asset quality improved as well.
16.   Institutional Reforms. Finally, BANADE was closed; CAJA was
privatized; BNA limited its role in the economy and emphasized lending to small-
and medium-size private firms; BHN abandoned first-tier operations; and BCRA's
operations were strengthened as well. These are significant accomplishments.
However, the reduced public sector role in deposit insurance and of BCRA
liquidity financing had to be reversed in view of the 1995 banking crisis. The
Central Bank provided in 1995 about US$1.6 billion in increased liquidity
financing to private and public banks. Also two new government-run Trust
Funds were established to assist with the restructuring of provincial and private
banks with a targeted capitalization of up to US$3.75 billion and partially
financed by two new Bank loans for a total of US$1 billion.



7
17.   With respect to the objective of strengthening the banking sector's
solvency and the banking supervisory capacity, institutional development has
progressed significantly. The Superintendency engaged in a major overhaul and
institutional upgrading. Several senior managers were hired, several hundred
new inspectors were recruited and trained and supervision policies modemized.
Also, the regulatory framework was further enhanced by placing restrictions on
affiliated lending and on total lending to any single borrower. Also, reporting
requirements were modified for banks to deliver reports on a consolidated basis.
While the banks' liquidity has suffered from the Mexican crisis and the
consequent massive withdrawal of deposits, Government actions (deposit
guarantees, support of consolidations, mergers and liquidations) have been
successful in returning the system to pre-crisis levels. The quality of supervision
of banks (President's Report, para. 92 and Letter of Development Policy, para. 5,
on the Superintendency of Financial Institutions) is much improved with a
stronger organization as well as with an improved regulatory system. Indeed,
were it not for the 1993/94 actions, training, and institutional strengthening, the
Argentine bank supervisory system would very likely not have been able to
handle the 1995 crisis.
18.   The 1995 banking crisis prompted a major consolidation in the banking
system. Thirty-four banks were either absorbed by other banks or liquidated.
The total number of banks fell by about 20%, to 134, as of September 1995. The
major consolidation took place in the cooperative sector with a reduction of 28
cooperative banks or 74%. The newly formed Bank Consolidation Trust Fund
provided financial support for about 13 bank consolidation transactions. Given
the pressures of global competition, improvements in banking technology, further
consolidations are likely but may take time to materialize.
19.   Provincial banks. The limited objectives of complying with the tighter
regulations on public sector lending, repayments to BCRA and reserve
requirements were achieved. It took the massive liquidity crisis, in the aftermath
of Mexico, to overcome earlier political resistance and prompt stronger reforms.
The fiscal distress of the provinces, combined with the growing distress of
provincial banks, finally forced provincial governments to seek urgent World
Bank assistance for their bank's privatization. The privatization of eight
provincial banks is now underway, with four privatizations completed and one
bank closure finalized.
20.   Restructuring of the External Debt. This was an important sub-
objective of the loan. A set aside of up to US$200 million in support of the
DDSR package with foreign commercial banks was provided under the Loan.
This was in addition to a Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan (1993) for
US$450 million. Under the agreement with the commercial banks, all eligible
commercial bank debt was restructured; about one-half of Argentina's total public



8
extemal debt. Of the FSAL funds, eventually only US$85 million of the US$200
million were needed to meet the financial requirements of the "Brady Deal."
21.   Overall Assessment. The FSAL was well focused, with a specific
conditionality appropriately designed for achieving the objectives of the loan and
which were easily monitorable. The strong commitment of the Borrower to
FSAL reforms was also important in the program's achievements; this was also a
contributing factor to the short preparation and execution time for the FSAL
program. Substantial compliance with loan conditions was achieved well before
the original Closing Date, and tranche disbursements were completed on
September 2, 1994.
22.   Social Objectives. The FSAL operation had no particular poverty
objective; it addressed only banking issues.
F. Major Factors Affecting the Project
23.   The anticipated bureaucratic lethargy and resistance to reform did not
materialize. The authorities, did in fact, move ahead speedier than anticipated.
The President's Report did identify the risk of returning to economic instability.
As a consequence of the Mexico crisis, this event materialized after project
completion in early 1995, and did indeed threaten some accomplishments of the
Loan. However the Government acted forcefully to counteract the fiscal
deterioration, to seek intemational financial assistance and to stabilize the
financial system. While the banking system was shaken severely, it survived and
has now recovered.
G. Bank Performance
24.   The design of the project components supported priority adjustments to
which authorities were fully committed: reduction of public sector banking,
resource mobilization to the private sector and the soundness and solvency of
financial institutions. Furthermore, the operation was consistent with the
objectives of the Bank's country assistance strategy.
25.   Preparatory work through appraisal required as little as 39 staff weeks,
as prior sector analysis and lending helped to put the financial problems into
perspective. Potential risks confronting the implementation of the FSAL were
correctly identified.
26.   Bank supervision missions visited Argentina regularly to monitor progress
in implementing the FSAL with three missions absorbing 41 staff weeks.
27.   Disbursements took place against imports procured according to Bank
procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in the legal documents. Those



9
disbursements related to the set-aside for the DDSR also were properly
accounted for all import documentation was audited in a satisfactory manner by
Argentina's state auditor. All audits resulted in unqualified opinions.
H. Borrower Performance
28.   Macroeconomic performance was satisfactory as serious attempts were
made to eliminate the public sector deficit and its inflationary financing, which
were chronic sources of macroeconomic disequilibria. This commitment remains
strong today as proven by the courageous and prompt actions taken to confront
to the 1995 Mexico crisis.
27.   Financial sector performance was also satisfactory as policies and actions
were clearly sensible choices. The Government strongly acted to implement all
reforms and complied in a satisfactory manner with program conditions.
I. Program Sustainability, Assessment of Outcome and Lessons Learned
28.   While institutional changes are considered sustainable, the sustainability
of reducing the role of the public sector in the financial sector remains vulnerable
to a macroeconomic deterioration and sharp falls in confidence. Should such
events re-occur, it is likely that public banks will assume at least temporarily, a
heightened role in providing liquidity financing. BNA, in particular, could lead
this approach, both because of its size and because of the Central Bank's
restrictions under the Convertibility Plan. The rest of the FSAL's public bank
restructurings, however, are likely to endure. BANADE is certain to remain
closed.2 CAJA is unlikely to be re-nationalized. BHN is not only expected to
remain largely a second-tier bank, it is expanding its securitization initiatives as
originally hoped. Also, Central Bank and Superintendency reforms are unlikely
to be reversed.
29.   Assessment of Outcome. The overall rating of the program is
satisfactory. It achieved its objectives in a timely manner.
30.   Key Lessons Learned. The main lesson of the FSAL concerns the value
of an early beginning of a policy dialogue on financial sector reforms, of
deepening the understanding of policy options and systematic opinion-building
towards a substantial consensus on remedial actions.
31.   The second lesson concerns the importance of a continuing and long-
standing working relationship with national authorities. The Bank's credibility
2 To alleviate a perceived remaining market failure, the Government created in 1992 the Banco
de Inversi6n y Comercio Exterior, S.A. (BICE) as a second-tier bank to lend long-term for
investment and foreign trade. BICE remains in the early stages of development and has yet to
be fully accepted by the banking community.



10
resulted in quick and substantial agreements on historic institutional changes--
such as major public bank restructuring, BCRA strengthening, modernization of
banking supervision and following-through with Basle-type norms on capital
adequacy and loan portfolio classification and provisioning.
32.    A third important lesson for future operations is that sustainability3 of an
objective of a reduced public role, such as in areas of deposit insurance and
liquidity assistance to the banking system, is not assured despite initial
government commitment, in cases where systemic risks threaten the banking
system.
33.    The fourth lesson is one learned many times before. Adjustment loans
should measure reform progress by focusing only on a limited high priority set of
actions to which the Government is firmly committed. Fortunately, the FSAL
was so focused.
3Sustainability concerns the probability of a project maintaining the achievements generated in
relation to its major objectives. In evaluating sustainability as likely, unlikely, or uncertain,
major factors, such as the following, should be taken into account: borrower commitment,
policy environment, institution management effectiveness, economic, technical, financial and
environmental viability, social impact, local participation and incentives for participants to
sustain the project.



I I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
FINANCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
I1. STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Studies Included in the Project
Table 6A:    Program Costs
Table 6B:     Program financing
Table 7:      Compliance with Legal Covenants
Table 8:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:      Missions



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of          Substantial     Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
objectives
Macro policies                 X
Sector policies                X
Financial objectives                                                       X
Institutional Development      X
Physical objectives                                                        X
Poverty reduction                                                          X
Gender issues                                                              X
Other social objectives                                                    X
Environmental objectives                                                   X
Public sector management       X
Private sector management                                                  X
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability        Likely             Unlikely          Uncertain
x
C. Bank performance        Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                         X
Preparation assistance                                 X
Appraisal                                              X
Supervision                                            x
D. Borrower                Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
performance
Preparation                                            X
Implementation                     X
Covenant compliance                X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of        1   Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory       Highly
outcome                   satisfactory I           I                 unsatisfactory
|      F    ~X      IlI



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan                           Purpose           Amount        Year of         Status
l ________________________________   ___________________    (US$  million)   Approval      (12/31/95)
I. Banking Sector Loan               Banking                    400         1987    Canceled
2. Trade Policy I&II                 Trade reform               500         1987 &    Disbursed
(Lns 2815 and 2996)                                                       1988    Disbursed
3. Public Enterprise Reform I&fl     Privatization of public    300          1991    Disbursed
(Lns. 3291 and 3556)              entrprises                 300          1993    Disbursed
4. Public Sector Reform I            Fiscal Revenues and        325          1991    Disbursed
(Ln 3394)                         expenditures, and
| _________________________          B C R A
5. Tax Administration I and II       Tax administration         6.5          1989    Disbursed
Following Operations                                          20          1992    Undisbursed $2.8 M
(Lns 3015 and 3460)                                 .
6. Capital Market Development        Capital market             500          1994    Undisbursed
(Ln 3709)                         development
7. Provincial Reform Loan            Provincial reforms         300          1995    Second Tranche
(Ln 3836)                                                                         disbursed
8. T.A. Capital Markets (Ln 3710)    Improvement of capital     8.5          1994    Undisbursed $7.2 M
T.A. Public Sector Reform (Ln 3362)   markets                 23          1991    Undisbursed $1.0 M
9. Provincial Bank Privatization'    Privatization of           500          1995    Second Tranche
(Ln 3878)                            provincial banks.                               disbursed
10.Bank Reform Loan2                 Private bank               500         1995    First Tranche
(Ln 3926)                         restructuring                       |          | disbursed
1/ Approved in May 1995
2/ Approved in July 1995



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle      Date Planned        Actual Date/or
Duration
Identification (Initial Executive                   1992
Project Summary
Preparation                                         10 months
Appraisal                                           July 1992
Negotiations                                        October 19 - 27,
1992
Letter of Development Policy                        December 8, 1992
(if applicable)                                                         l
Board Presentation                                  February 16, 1993
Signing                                             February 16, 1993
Effectiveness                  Feb./March 1993      February 16, 1993
First tranche release                               March 1993
Second tranche release                              December 1993
Third tranche release                               August 1994
Loan closing                   December 31, 1995    September 31, 1994
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Thousands)
FY93            FY94             FY95
Appraisal estimate                    205             300              400
Actual                                205             300              400
Actual as % of estimate               100%            100%             100%
Date of final disbursement                                            9/02/94



15
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined         Status         Impact of Study
at appraisal                                              l
1. Review of BNA's financial    Determine costs and benefits  Completed    Conclusion: BNA does not
services rendered to the Borrower   of services provided by BNA          significantly subsidize the
and preparation of action plan  to public agencies                       Government and is not
being subsidized
Table 6A: Program Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)                 Actual (USSM)
Item           Local       Foreign       Total     Local       Foreign       Total
Costs        Costs                  Costs        Costs
1. DDSR]'               -          200          200                     85           85
2. Import financing     -           200          200         -          315         315
Total                               400          400                    400         400
1/ Debt and debt service reduction
Table 6B: Program Financing
[   Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual estimate (US$M)
Source        Local      Foreign     Total     Local      Foreign     Total
costs      costs                 costs      costs
IBRD/IDA                        400        400                   400        400
Cofinancing           -         200        200         -         200        200
Total                 -         600        600         -         600        600



ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 7 - Compliance with Legal Covenants
Agreement Section                                     Subject                                   Type       Present         Fulfillment                  Comments
Status           Date
Schedule 1, 5(c) and 6(c)    Macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with the objectives of the  10          C        December 1993        Second and third tranche condition
program                                                                                       August 1994
Schedule 1, 5(a)             Progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program     10           C       December 1993        Second and third tranche condition
and 6(a)                                                                                                                   August 1994
Schedule 1, 5(b)             Actions described in Part I of Schedule 5 to the Agreement have been taken,  10      C        Ongoing              Second tranche condition
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
Schedule 5, Part I           I. Financial sector reforms underway to continue being implemented       10          C        December 1993        Second tranche condition
2. Furnish certified, audited copy of BCRA's balance sheet of December 31,  10       C        December 1993        Second tranche condition
1992
3. Confirm that at least 97% of banks operating in the borrower's territory  10      C        July 1992 to         Second tranche condition
have been inspected by SEF or audited by an external auditor acceptable to                    December 1993 -
SEF with opinion on the financial statements consistent with the provisions                   Ongoing
of paragraph 5 below.
4. SEF to initiate remedial action against banks not in compliance with  10          C        December 1993        Second tranche condition
BCRA's regulations, including but not limited to those relating to minimum                                                                                  0'
capital and portfolio provisioning requirements.
5. Regulations to be issued by BCRA establishing rules to strengthen     10          C        December 1993        Second tranche condition
external auditing of financial institutions in Argentina.
6. Borrower to confirm that no rediscounts have been provided by BCRA to  10         C        December 1993        Second tranche condition
provincial banks other than to cover liquidity needs; disclosed the degrees of
compliance by the provincial banks and the municipal banks with lending
limits to the private sector, as required by BCRA's Communique No. "A"
1932 of February 6, 1992; and disclose the degree of compliance of
provincial banks with BCRA's reserve requirements.
7. CAJA's majority of voting shares owned by Borrower shall have been    10          C        December 1993        Second tranche condition
offered for sale to entities not owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by
the borrower.
8. Borrower to confirm no first-tier lending has been made by BHN in     10          C        December 1993        Second tranche condition
accordance with law No. 24,143 dated September 23, 1992 and that any                          financial statements
BHN's second-tier lending has been made on terms and conditions that cover                    completed.
the costs of raising funds by BHN, its operating costs and a positive returm                  Ongoing.
on its capital.
9. Borrower to furnish to the Bank the proposed financial performance    10          C        December 1993        Second tranche condition
standards to be applied by BHN in order to achieve a positive rate of return
on its capital.



Agreement Section                                      Subject                                    Type       Present          FWlfillment                  Comments
Status            Date
10. (i) Take all actions necessaiy to ensure that BNA provides on a priority           C        December 1993          Second tranche condition
basis, loans to small and medium size productive firms in accordance with
BCRA's definition, and to enterprises engaged in foreign trade;
(ii) to define the financial efficiency standards for BNA's operations, and to
continue compliance of BNA's reform program as established in the
borrower's letter to the Bank.
December 1993
11. Furnish to the Bank a certified copy of the audit report referred to in  I         C                               Second tranche condition
l Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of the Agreement in respect of the financed out of the                                                                   D
proceeds of the First Tranche.
Schedule 1, 6(b)             Actions described in Part II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been     10           C        August 1994            Third tranchecondition
taken, in forn and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 5, Part 11          1. The financial sector reforms referred to in the Borrower's letter shall have  10     C        August 1994            Third tranche condition
been or are being implemented, as the case may be.
2. BCRA shall issue a resolution adopting a new accounting system and     10           C        August 1994            Third tranche condition
setting a timetable for its implementation.
3. Confirm that at least 97% of banks operating in the Borrower's territory  10        C        August 1994            Tbird tranche condition
have been (i) inspected by SEF or (ii) audited by an external auditor
acceptable to SEF with opinion in the financial statements consistent with the
provisions of paragraph 5 below.
4. SEF to initiate remedial actions against banks not in compliance with   10          C        August 1994            Third tranche condition
BCRA's regulations including but not limited to those relating to minimum
capital and portfolio requirements.
5. BCRA shall have disclosed the financial statements of all banks operating  10       C        August 1994            Third tranche condition
in the territory of the Borrower.
6. Borrower to confirm that no rediscounts have been provided by BCRA to  10           C        August 1994            Third tranche condition
provincial banks other than to cover liquidity needs; disclosed the degree of
compliance of provincial banks and the municipal banks with lending limits
to the private sector, as required by BCRA's No. 'A' 1932 of February 6,
1992; and disclose the degree of compliance of provincial banks with
BCRA's reserve requirements.
10          C        August 1994            Third tranche condition
7. CAJA's majority voting shares owned by the Borrower shall have been
sold to entities not owned or controlled, directdy or indirectly, by the
Borrower.                                                                 10           C        August 1994            Third tranche condition
8. Borrower to confinn that no first-tier lending has been made by BHN in
accordance with Law No.24.143 dated September 23, 1992 and that BHN's
second-tier lending bas been made on terms and conditions that cover the
costs of raising funds by BHN, its operation costs and a positive return on its
capital.                                                                  10           C        August 1994            Third tranche condition
9. Borrower shall have implemented the standards referred to in paragraph 9
of Part I of Schedule 5.



Agreement Section                                     Subject                               |  Type |  Present              Fulfillment     |            Comments
I      I   Status             Datel
10. Actions to be carried out under paragraph 10 of Part I of Schedule 5  10          C        August 1994           Tird trnche condition
shall have been continued to be duly carried out.
11. The Borrower shall have (i) carried onJy and fumished to the Bank a  10           C        August 1994           Third tranche condition
study of the review of the financial services rendered by BNA to the
Borrower covering an inventory of those services, the determination of the
costs and benefits of such services through BNA7s new information on
system, and recommnendations on altematives to be followed by BNA in the
provision of those services; and (ii) fumish to the Bank an action plan for the
implementation of the recommnendations of the study.
12. Provide a certified copy of the audit report referred to in Section 3.04  1       C        August 1994           Third tranche condition
(b)(ii) of the Agreement in respect of the expenditures financed out of the
Second Tranche.
ao



19
ARGENTINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs"/
Stage of                    Planned                    Revised                      Actual
project cycle
Weeks        US$          Weeks          US$         Weeks           US$
Through appraisal                    34         153             38         172.8          38.4           172.8
Appraisal-Board                      11          49.5           13          57.6          12.8            57.6
Board-effectiveness '
Supervision                          40         181.8           49         218.3           40.7          183.1
Completion                           10          45             10          45             11             49.5
TOTAL                              95        429.3           110         493.7          104           463.0
1/ Estimated cost in constant FY94 $'000. Based on LA4's staffyear cost.
2/ The loan was approved, signed and made effective on the same date (2/16/93)
Table 9: Missions
Stage of             Month/                Number                      Specialized
Project cycle         year                     of         Days in        staffskills              Performance rating
persons       field        represented                                                      l
Implementation    Development
Status          objectives     Types of
problems
Through appraisal              Preparation               2            12             b,f
Mission-March
1992
Pre-Appraisal            4            15            a,b,d,f
Mission-April
1992
Appraisal through              Appraisal Mission-       4             16            a,d,e,f
Board approval                 July 1992
Board approval                                                                                                                                     l
through effectiveness 2l
Supervision                     Ist-May 1993            3             8             a,c,d                 S                HS            None
2nd-Oct. 1993            6            7            a,2b,d.f               HS               HS            None
3rd-July 1994            3            2              a,b,e                HS               HS            None
Completion                          1995                2                            a,e                 HS                HS            None
1/ Key to specialization:
a. Task Manager
b. Financial Specialist
c. Bank Specialist
d. Financial Analyst
e. Consultant
f Sr. Economist
2/ The loan was approved, signed and become effective on the same date (2/16/93)



- 20 -
COMHENTS OF BORROWER/COFINANCIER
* I                MINISTERJO DE ECQN9Tq A OBRS  SERVICIOS PUBLICOS
SECRETARIA DE:PRG          ACONOMICA
D|RECCION NACIONMAL   ?ROY         QSCON ORGANISMOS
.-  .      4 j;.,  .
FECBA:             .-    F ;:.O-..''
PARA:   5i=rJ                       . % L. i  ,
FAX NO:  (aoa) Z.2   3
DE:        DIRECCION NACO-AL DE P-'gTCTS CON ORGANISMOS
INTERNACONAL         : j -,
LIC. CARLOS.A. LO?X    * . .-.:.
- .       -   -
ASU,7TO:  !mtomm~                pt2- A        prmstrAm   3SQ-4z,
R;bcLPAh3TO  P3R, =ST_ f<S>C . (P .'-; L 9S fWOTAS -De LoS
2ANCW5:  3CRA-Y  B3t6N       W         < .>    EEEC^
alkPiw~~*  S . nfIKI. *i . , {q/. /
' .! ;<-i'.. ',.. 4<)  .t''  -ii  ;'l         
;~~~~..~s XL  .st Np~I1AL O   C'E
-' S i . *!,', ,    _ ,  ',' .
N'. D. ',A.'', ' .;',. .'''ui.a ''re".   ."
N Di3 PAGIN'AS;5 (incluida 12 presente) ;     -
. 5 i&,!=ws   S  ~~~~'., 



2
ev  ~    1     I . .  .  '     |' 
Ares, 5 de Marzo de '996
Sr.                                          -.
Subsecretario de lnversi6n Publica     -
Lie. Juan Ca,los del Bello
5   /           D
Tengo ci agTado de diigirme at Tsted en r1cLon: u nota del 9 de febrero del
mes pasado en la que sc solicii.a        01aspectos refenidos al B3anco
Cent2al de la RcpiTblica .Argentrna,(lX,  labor . 1a  Si. erintendencia de 17.midlides
Financieras y Cainbiarias de este BCRL&   sobre el mIoi1e elaborado por cl Bancii de
Reconstxucci6n y Fomento ev auand&ls resulua        !  xmo de Ajuste del Se! .;tor
.-; continuaci6n se realizan algur ;s comentario  pueden resultar de su in!  -6s
rcferido al nienciona.do documento               los .      d            e
7Eln la pia , puo)(a  9 punto 13) sc Itace
rcfclcncia a] marco regulatorio pid,en'ia. Cabe d     r  que adicionaliiente a las
rc-ifacionecs mencionadas, sobre .equeirnienno,de:pftaies miniinos y clasificacion
de deudores y sll prcviaionanlip,tto, . son de iuiY4mpoaacia las referidas al
fiaccionamiento dcl riesgo cre'd"Iko, . 1tin kcia  crediticia a clientes
vinculados, regimcn de auditor as :,emas y espi$ci7tel] referidas a supervisi6n
consolidada conmo asi tarnibn ahriimen inforatjy,consoJidado de la operatoria
nacional c intennacional y la apertade entidades
:'.w,28             pag ,, qt. 'n ' !S f'L,I'  L
* Cabe agregar a lo riencionado eli ]e Epunto 2i)ddiA  pag.   que  el el Anl.ito
normativo ei -BOCA ha simplificado y nmejorad6 b;.jn&,as de caracter prudencial
que rigen al sistcma fiinanciero loaJ. A l as antei          se guma el reeniiplazo
de fa exi cncia sobre el efectivo   fim.o cque de 'integrar las enfidadcs pOi lOS
rcquisitos zninimos de liquidez Eh ateia de               e CRA, a traves cl la
Superinten encia inii6iouin proce's- .0ie -prof6          de stinado a reflrzar el
plantel de persoilal y Ja disponi!A1faad de equl,      .  rwprganizar la estrucl ura
opC.eaiva y reenfucar la tarca de                      :tjidades finaicicras. Este
cunl;io incluye tambi6n un cambid,, scrioptuaf! j' ucion misnia d'&c  politica dc
suoervisi6n. En ambos casos, el :#dito e ia sido 1tAr una mas eficiente labor de
regulaci6n prudcecial y supervisio ,,-lernod9 tal qic mejoren las pasihilidades  de
cjesarrollo dcl sistcina financiero IodI y que se  Fi)iAe, su.inserci6n en los mercadus
internacionale.s;
A   \   |                         jieft'9  ,- . 1 |   ,.^.



22         . K
Poi otu-a parte en el iTusmro pu       I a I'A 4-        Caaa Nacional de Ahorro
y Seguros. Al respecto es nece-a4    e             el;t;dad ha eadO pnvatizeda y
que SLI gesti6n ha pasado por c   ft9 als            .
 EnI la pagina 6, puTlto 17) se meiricioni qui  : o  s financieras vieron afeelada
su soli'encia desde la crisis is1exicana:y  ,.g   cwmre perdicla masiva de
dep6xvit x.... Al respecto cabe sctilarue e      wacero argentino cnflient6 un
problema de liquidez y no de s&olvencia A     l j?rde  1994 el Capital Integrado
por cl conjunto de las entidades-4i s;stern,gi   oueior ai Capital Exigido por
el BCRA. A noviembre de 199      r    e. s        sicndo en os pcorcs mcses de
la crisis (marzo-abri de 1995)?';de 48% bp '4Ede de:dep6sitos de los bancos
privados nacionales en los prim6eUfo6 cinco meh  [iaJcanze al 23%, cifra similar
a la que suport6 el sistema finandero norteate  t l rate el peor ano de la crisis
del '30 (20%  en 1931). En ei caso norte           esto deriv6 en la caida de
alrededor de 350 entidades financieras en  e 'a$    ,en tantc) que en el caso
argcltino solo sc revoc6 la patente a nueve 'iM    snancieras (cuyos dep6sitos
iepresentabani aproximadamentee1'2,5%i del ' +t ,1   a diciembbrc de 1994, y
.us activos un porcentaje similari.      :i'
- En la pigina 7, punto 19) se9 -'-aue                  distress of the provinces,
:ofmbined with the growing diff    of ,t j'.fncraly forcel provincial
gover77m7enty to yeak urgi.nI 1{h Bak            fr iheir bank s closure or
privatization...". En este bentido vcbe  efa   4  se,entiende que el objetivo
principal de la asistencia del 3nizaci6n de los bancos
provinciales y no su cierre.      -
Sin otro particular y espe    oque ed   ' e       s sean dc su utilidad, lo
saludo a Usted inuy atcntamente,,..,,i
* ~ ~ ~~~ .1'W 0 ,   fX t  w : -;
T~~~~~
MIG  IAGL 0R TIZ
.41~~A
T   M.   -    ..'.  ' :
p ,         *,.X              [      G
., ~  ~ Lee,, -i,-     i,,,, ',   -
00 .                             --:
^zz;,a        - S P    i
'J ;' -  .''''.-   ,: l'" ' 
.                



;   2 - 3 -..  I .
- ~  ! .  .  '  R -W *z .,
* '- -;   r   r.  '- L,    _ --
NOTA N
;-.C  B%NO3.-M^i, s ~ de rnarzo de 1996.
SENOR DIRECTOR:
Tengo  e].  aiao ; 4iigi;e   a  usted,  con
referencia  al Pr6stwnc,  3558',/pxstamo  para ajusce del
Sect:or Pinanci.ero.
A-  resormp,;'cab& ;A4e0rniarle  que  el  Bainco
Ilipotecario NacionaVfia c" ilei:adv las condiciones bdsicas
que fueran requisit&'para el. ztiamento del mismo y gue se
enuncian a continuaC.in --
-    Pol:itica cread-   ,2de primera 1L.nea.
-                                     Pd8 npr6stamos de segunda
linea otorgadogn.'aPn.. t          cubran los costos del
czfdito, gasto8sg-rat-.vO iTn i rendimiento positivo
del. capital.  ~1  ..".&pP~
P21carltal. meja abrochure del Banscc
con  una  rese5a ~6bre   10icos  que  se  detallan
seguidamnente:
-    IListoria y reeqm        e turaqio   ..anco.
-    Productos del            t,acional.
-    ?Proceso de cap    zavini*s 'F-
Balances gene       -- ccmentarios sobra los
ejercicios 1992:,;A.1994,   ia tivos a Setiembr2 94 -
Setiembre 95 (piriodo              0
...             F    >r, 1



T .    24 _' '   ;
Organizaci 6       n3e.na-  xas: Nacional.
El futuro de           .'
Saludo            ;nIte.
~~ted tn~~2y4~~itauRotntN
>   .1  .   K .1   r-LU.S CFO- !Ni
:0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 0      0 
:4..   .- t!w 
* '  ,  '  : 'X'St W 0*     1  :,
AL SBEiR DIRECTOR  iCIOX            "
PROYECTIOS CON           AIS     DB LA
SUI3SXCR.ETARIA  LEFWCAXN'
MINISTERIO DB E CO B.Z Y8 O     NR ' i iERVICIOS PUB1LICOS
D.CARLOS LOPZ                   ....
.X" ..



- 25 >
W * |  THE EXP ORTr-I r0R-EkiNK OF
4-1. OHTE.MACHI I CHOML CHTYODA.KL. TOKYO L0O.JAP*#I rELB 2 8 A 11: 18
February 23, 1996
Mr. Paul Meo
Chief
Public Sector Management and
Private Sector Development Division
Department 1
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Meo:
We would like to thank you for sending draft
:mplementation. Completion Report of Argentina FSAL. We have
tound that the report contains very useful information. we
would like to send you our comments as attached.
We thank you very much again for your kind
cooperation.
Sincerely yours,
Direccor
Loan. Departmeen:rII
Division 2
FAX:81-3-3287-9542
TE:81-3-3287-9319
CC:Mr. Masaharu Shimizu
Chief Representat_ve
Representative Office in Washington, D.C.
ML-. Masaki Arbdb
Chief Represencative
Representative Office in auenos A res



- 26 -
Attachment
It is encouraging that disbursement of FSAL completed
well ahead of the original Closing Date due to the
government's timely policy implementation. We hope that the
strong commritment to the banking sector reform as
demonstrated through FSAL implementation would be repeated
for the two ongoing prcgrams --Provincial Bank
Privatization and Bank Reform Loan.
Below you will find our comments on the draft
Implementation Completion Report for FSAL.
1.   We believe that the sufficient implementation of FSAL
helped strengthening the banking system, and it was in a
stronger position to withstand and recover from the banking
system problem brought by the Mexican crisis. Eowever, the
Implementation Completion Report dces not contain data
which show development of the banking sector's financial
position, such as non-performing loans, loan provisioning,
and the capital-asset ratio. It would be better to describe
the progress of the banking sector reform with these data.
In this regard, comparison should be made before the
imclementation of FSAL and just before the Mexican crisis.
2.   FSAL was expected to stimulate the private banking
system to increase resource mobilization. It is highly
appreciated if the ICR could provide data on efficiency
imnrovement of the banking system.
3.   :t appears that assessment of the deposit 4.nsurance in
the ICR is ambiguous. While paragraph 17 refers to the
deposit insurance positively, paragraphs 16 and 32 (the
latter being numbered as 14 incorrectly on page 10)
indicate that the public sector involvement in deposit
insurance would have been inevitable but undesirab3le.
4.   Pa-ragraph 18 mentioned that the Bank Consolidation
Trust Fund provided financial support for about 10 bank
consolidation transactions. Meanwhile, LMFL recorted that
the Trust Fund with an initial capital of ArgS2.5 billion,
as of August 1995 had disbursed only Arg$0.2 billion, due
to the sufficient financial support to the banks through
rediscounts and swaps bv the Central Bank. we are sure that
Ithe Trust Fund issue was not in the policy matrix of FSAL,
but it would be better to show more detailed information of
the resource utilization of the Trust Fund. Also, it would
be better to describe the performance of the another Trust.
Fund for provincial bank privatization.
5.   Paragraph 19 describes that it took the massive
liquidity crisis, in the aftermath of Mexico, to prompt
stronger reforms. We would like to know why FSAL could not
capture such stronger reforms of provincial banks and
fragile private banks in its scope in advance cf the
Mexican crisis as envisaged under the ongoing Provincial
Bank Privatization Loan and Bank Reform Loan.



- 27 -
I  A   .
6.   On page 12, assessment of outcome is scored at
satisfactory-. We would like to know what is missing in
order to be scored at -highly satisfactory-.



- 28 -
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES TO RECEIVE COPY OF THIS REPORT
Lic. Carlos Alberto Lopez
Director Nacional de Proyectos con Organismos Intemacionales
Ministerio de Economia y Obras y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250, Piso 6, Of 629
(1310) Buenos Aires, Argentina
Banco Central de la Republica Argentina
Dr. D. Roque Benjamin Fernandez, Presidente
Reconquista 266
(1003) Buenos Aires, Argentina
Banco de la Nacion Argentina
Mr. Roque Maccarone, Presidente
Bartolome Mitre 326, Piso 1
(1036) Buenos Aires, Argentina
Banco Hipotecario Nacional
Lic. D. Pablo Carlos Rojo, Presidente
Defensa 192, Piso 2
(1065) Buenos Aires, Argentina












IMAGING
Report; No:     15461
Type: ICR



