Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3558 AR
Loan Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 16, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3558 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1993, between THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated December 8, 1992 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the financial sector of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed 
imports required during such execution; 
      (B)   it is contemplated that the Borrower may require assistance from the Bank 
in the implementation of a Debt Reduction Plan (as such term is hereinafter defined);
      (C)   the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      (D)   the Borrower has entrusted the Secretariat of Economy of the Borrower's 
Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services with the responsibility of 
monitoring and ensuring the carrying out of the actions specified in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
Page  2
      (E)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program and of the Debt Reduction Plan (as such term is hereinafter 
defined) to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter 
provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Loan Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.";
      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (d)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
      (a)   "BCRA" means Banco Central de la Republica Argentina, the Borrower's 
central bank;
      (b)   "BHN" means Banco Hipotecario Nacional, the Borrower's national mortgage 
bank;
      (c)   "BNA" means Banco de la Nacion Argentina, the Borrower's national bank;
      (d)   "CAJA" means Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguro, the Borrower's national 
savings and insurance association;
 /
      (e)   "Debt Reduction Plan" means the Borrower's 1992 Financing Plan dated June 
23, 1992 distributed to the international banking community;
      (f)   "First-Tier Lending" means any lending commitment made by a financial 
institution directly to the ultimate beneficiary, without the intervention of a 
financial intermediary;
      (g)   "First Tranche" means a portion of the Loan not exceeding the equivalent 
of $5,000,000, to be released by the Bank on or after the Effective Date;
      (h)   "Municipal Bank" means any bank owned by a Municipality in the territory 
of the Borrower; 
      (i)   "Provincial Bank" means any bank owned by a Province of the Borrower;
Page  3
      (j)   "Second-Tier Lending" means any lending commitment made by a financial 
institution to a financial intermediary;
      (k)   "Second Tranche" means a portion of the Loan not exceeding the equivalent 
of $95,000,000, to be released by the Bank on or after the date on which the 
conditions referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been met;
      (l)   "SEF" means Superintendencia de Entidades Financieras, the Borrower's 
superintendency of financial institutions, within BCRA;
      (m)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
      (n)   "Table" means the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
      (o)   "Third Tranche" means a portion of the Loan not exceeding the equivalent 
of $100,000,000, to be released by the Bank on or after the date on which the 
conditions referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been met.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of four hundred million dollars 
($400,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
            (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
            (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Page  4
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Part A and, if so determined under 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement, Part B of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate commercial, administrative and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)
subject to paragraph 11 of Part I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement 
in relation to the Second Tranche and to paragraph 12 of Part II 
of such Schedule in relation to the Third Tranche, furnish to the 
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than one 
hundred and twenty days after the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account has been made under each the First, Second and Third 
Tranches, a certified copy of the report of the audit by said 
auditors of the records and accounts in respect of the 
expenditures financed by the Bank under each corresponding First, 
Second and Third Tranche, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and
Page  5
          (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
    (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 3.05. Subject to agreement by the Borrower and the Bank on the terms and 
conditions to be applied in such case, the Borrower may use a portion of the proceeds 
of the Loan as provided in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the implementation of the 
Debt Reduction Plan under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date May 18, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Economia y Obras y
              Servicios Publicos
            Hipolito Yrigoyen 250, 5a piso
            1310 Buenos Aires
            Argentina
            Cable address:                
Telex:
 
                  MINISTERIO ECONOMIA       
121950 AR
                  Baires
Page  6
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                
Telex:
 
                  INTBAFRAD                  
197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                  THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                  By /s/ Daniel Marx
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Imported goods                              100% of foreign
    under Part A of                             expenditures
    the Project:
    (a)  to be dis-            5,000,000
         bursed on or
         after the
         Effective Date
    (b)  to be dis-           95,000,000
         bursed on or
         after the
         Effective
         Date, sub-
         ject to the
         provisions of
         paragraph 5
         of this
         Schedule
Page  7
     (c)  to be dis-          100,000,000
         bursed on or
         after the
         Effective
         Date, sub-
         ject to the
         provisions of
         paragraph 6 of
         this Schedule
(2) Debt Reduction           200,000,000        To be agreed by
    Plan                                        the Bank and the
                                                Borrower, subject
                                                to paragraph 9
                                                below
         TOTAL               400,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
      Group       Subgroup          Description of Items
      112               -           Alcoholic beverages
      121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse
      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco sub-
                                    stitutes)
      525               -           Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
      667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
      718            718.7          Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors
      728.43            -           Tobacco processing machinery
      897            897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                    wares (including set gems)
      971              -            Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
(b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of twenty percent 
(20%) of the amount allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the Table, may be 
made in respect of such Category (1), on account of payments made before that date but 
Page  8
after October 15, 1992;
(d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
(e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
(f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or 
for luxury consumption; and
(g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $50,000,000 
for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
4.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of 
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
5.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan under Category (1) (b) of the Table, unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved 
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in 
Part I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
6.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan under Category (1) (c) of the Table, unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved 
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that the actions described in 
Part II of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
7.
If, after any of the exchange of views described in paragraphs 5 and 6 above, 
the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the respective progress achieved 
or actions taken are not satisfactory or that the Bank is not satisfied that the 
macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the 
Program, and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved 
progress or taken actions satisfactory to the Bank or the Bank is not satisfied that 
the macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the 
Program, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount 
of the Loan or any part thereof.
8.
To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications shall be consolidated so as 
to apply for withdrawal amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
9.
If an agreement between the Borrower and the Bank for the use of the proceeds of 
the Loan designated for the implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan shall not have 
been entered into by March 31, 1993, or such later date as approved by the Bank, or if 
the amount allocated to Category (2) of the Table is deemed by the Bank not to be 
necessary for the purposes of the carrying out of Part B of the Project, the Bank may 
reallocate to Category (1) (a) of the Table the amount allocated to Category (2) of 
the Table. 
10.
The provisions of this Schedule are without prejudice to the provisions of 
Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in carrying out the 
reform of its financial sector and, if so determined under Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement, in the implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  9
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Imports
 
Financing of imported goods required during the execution of the Program.
Part B:
Debt Reduction Plan
 
Assistance to the Borrower in the implementation of the Debt Reduction Plan 
which, in the judgement of the Borrower and of the Bank, shall meet the requirements 
of the Bank's support of debt reduction.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
      beginning November 1, 1998
      through   May 1, 2008                     20,000,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                  Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
Not more than three years                       0.20
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.40
Page  10
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.73
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.87
      more than thirteen years
      before maturity
More than thirteen years                        1.00
      before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
            (i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Business; 
or
            (ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
            (iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except 
that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered 
appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded commodities may be 
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Page  11
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to 
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 5
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b) and 6 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part I.
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
 
1.
The financial sector reforms referred to in the letter of even date herewith 
from the Borrower to the Bank shall have been or are being implemented, as the case 
may be.
2.
A certified copy of the BCRA's balance sheet, duly audited, relating to its 
activities performed until December 31, 1992, shall have been furnished to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall have confirmed that at least 97% of the banks operating in 
the Borrower's territory shall have: (i) been inspected by SEF or (ii) received from 
an external auditor acceptable to SEF an opinion on their financial statements 
consistent with the provisions of the regulations referred to in paragraph 5 of this 
Part I, such inspection or opinion to have been made or issued during the 
fifteen-month period immediately preceding the month in which the Second Tranche is 
released.
4.
The SEF shall have initiated procedures for the application of remedies against 
all the banks which are not in compliance with the BCRA's regulations, including but 
not limited to those relating to minimum capital and provisioning requirements.
5.
Regulations establishing the rules to strengthen the external auditing of the 
financial institutions in the territory of the Borrower shall have been issued by 
BCRA.
6.
The Borrower shall have: (i) confirmed that no rediscounts have been provided by 
the BCRA to Provincial Banks other than to cover the liquidity needs of such Banks; 
(ii) disclosed the degree of compliance by the Provincial Banks and the Municipal 
Banks with the lending limitation to the public sector, as provided in BCRA's 
Communique No. "A" 1932, of February 6, 1992; and (iii) disclose the degree of 
compliance by the Provincial Banks with the reserve requirements established by BCRA.
7.
The majority of the voting shares owned by the Borrower in the capital stock of 
CAJA shall have been offered for sale to entities not owned or controlled, directly or 
indirectly, by the Borrower.
8.
The Borrower shall have confirmed that no First-Tier Lending has been made by 
the BHN in accordance with Law No. 24.143 of the Borrower, dated September 23, 1992, 
and that any Second-Tier Lending made by the BHN has been made on terms and conditions 
that cover the costs of raising funds by BHN in the financial markets, the operating 
costs of BHN and a positive return on its capital.
9.
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank a report containing the proposed 
financial performance standards to be applied by BHN in order to achieve a positive 
rate of return on its capital.
10.
All actions necessary to ensure that the BNA provide, on a priority basis, loans 
to small and medium private productive enterprises, as such term is defined from time 
to time by the BCRA, and to enterprises engaged in foreign trade operations, to define 
the financial efficiency standards for the operations of the BNA, and to continue to 
Page  12
comply with the reform program for the BNA, established in the letter of even date 
herewith from the Borrower to the Bank, shall have been taken by the Borrower.
11.
A certified copy of the audit report referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of 
this Agreement in respect of the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
First Tranche shall have been furnished to the Bank.
Part II.
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
 
1.
The financial sector reforms referred to in the letter of even date herewith 
from the Borrower to the Bank shall have been or are being implemented, as the case 
may be.
2.
A resolution of the BCRA shall have been issued adopting a new accounting system 
for the BCRA and setting a timetable for its implementation.
3.
The Borrower shall have confirmed that at least 97% of the banks operating in 
the Borrower's territory shall have: (i) been inspected by SEF or (ii) received from 
an external auditor acceptable to SEF an opinion on their financial statements 
consistent with the provisions of the regulations referred to in paragraph 5 of Part I 
of this Schedule, such inspection or opinion to have been made or issued during the 
fifteen-month period immediately preceding the month in which the Third Tranche is 
released.
4.
The SEF shall have initiated procedures for the application of remedies against 
all the banks which are not in compliance with the BCRA's regulations, including but 
not limited to those relating to minimum capital and provisioning requirements.
5.
The BCRA shall have disclosed the financial statements of all banks operating in 
the territory of the Borrower.
6.
The Borrower shall have: (i) confirmed that no rediscounts have been provided by 
the BCRA to Provincial Banks other than to cover the liquidity needs of such Banks; 
(ii) disclosed the degree of compliance by the Provincial Banks and the Municipal 
Banks with the lending limitation to the public sector, as provided in BCRA's 
Communique No. "A" 1932, of February 6, 1992; and (iii) disclose the degree of 
compliance by the Provincial Banks with the reserve requirements established by BCRA.
7.
The majority of the voting shares owned by the Borrower in the capital stock of 
CAJA shall have been sold to entities not owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, 
by the Borrower.
8.
The Borrower shall have confirmed that no First-Tier Lending has been made by 
the BHN in accordance with Law No. 24.143 of the Borrower, dated September 23, 1992, 
and that any Second-Tier Lending made by the BHN has been made on terms and conditions 
that cover the costs of raising funds by BHN in the financial markets, the operating 
costs of BHN and a positive return on its capital.
9.
The Borrower shall have implemented the standards referred to in paragraph 9 of 
Part I of this Schedule.
10.
All actions taken in accordance with paragraph 10 of Part I of this Schedule 
shall have continued to be duly carried out.
11.
The Borrower shall have: (i) carried out, and furnished to the Bank, a study on 
the review of the financial services rendered by BNA to the Borrower, such study to 
include (a) an inventory of the financial services rendered by BNA; (b) the 
determination of the costs and benefits of such services through BNA's new information 
system; and (c) the recommendations on the alternatives to be followed by BNA relating 
to the provisions of such services; and (ii) furnished to the Bank an action plan for 
the implementation of the recommendations of such study.
12.
A certified copy of the audit report referred to in Section 3.04 (b) (ii) of 
this Agreement in respect of the expenditures financed out of the Second Tranche shall 
have been furnished to the Bank.
