                                 Document of The World Bank



                                                              Report No: ICR00001160




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-38380)



                                             ON A

                                      CREDIT
                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 69.9 MILLION
                           (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                           FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                             FOR A

               SECOND NATIONAL FADAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                          June 28, 2010




Agricultural and Rural Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW2
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 25, 2010)

                       Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (NGN)
                               Naira1.00 = US$0.01
                              US$1.00 = Naira 151.35

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 ­ December 31



                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ADP         Agricultural Development Program
AfDB        African Development Bank
BIA         Beneficiary Impact Assessment
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDD         Community Driven Development
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DDAS        Demand-driven Advisory Service
DO          Development Objective
EIA         Environment Impact Assessment
EIGs        Economic Interest Groups
EMP         Environment Management Plan
EOs         Environmental Officers
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
ESMF        Environmental and Social management Framework
Fadama I    National Fadama Development Project (Phase I)
Fadama II   Second National Fadama Development Project
FCA         Fadama Community Association
FCT         Federal Capital Territory
FMARD       Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
FRR         Financial Rate of Return
FUG         Fadama User Group
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IDA         International Development Association
ICR         Implementation Completion Result Report
IPM         Integrated Pest Management
LEEMP       Local Empowerment and Environmental Management Plan
LDP         Local Development Plan
LFD         Local Fadama Desk

                                        ii
LGA     Local Government Area
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS     Management Information System
NFCO    National Fadama Coordination Office
NFDO    National Fadama Development Office
NFTC    National Fadama Technical Committee
MTR     Mid-term Review
NPV     Net Present Value
O&M     Operations and Maintenance
OP/BP   Operational and Bank Policy
PAA     Pilot Asset Acquisition
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
PHRD    Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PMP     Pest Management Plan
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PRA     Project Rural Appraisal
PSM     Propensity Score Matching
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QEA     Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA     Quality at Supervision Assessment
RPF     Resettlement Policy Framework
RII     Rural Infrastructure Investment
SFDO    State Fadama Development Office
SFTC    State Fadama Technical Committee
TTL     Task Team Leader
USD     United States Dollar
WB      World Bank




                      Vice President: Oby Ezekwesili
                    Country Director: Onno Ruhl
                     Sector Manager: Karen Brooks
                Project Team Leader: Abimbola Adubi
                   ICR Team Leader: Abimbola Adubi




                                   iii
                                                  NIGERIA
                                 Second National Fadama Development Project

                                                                Contents
Data Sheet


 
A. Basic Information ................................................................................................................... v 
B. Key Dates ............................................................................................................................... v 
C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................... v 
D. Sector and Theme Codes....................................................................................................... vi 
E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................................. vi 
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................. vi 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ............................................................................... ix 
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................ ix 
I. Disbursement Profile .............................................................................................................. x 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................... 6 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ..................................................................................................... 10 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 17 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................ 18 
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 22 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 24 
Annex 2. Outputs by Components ............................................................................................ 25 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 27 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................... 31 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey: Summary of Methods and Results .......................................... 33 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 38 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 39 
Annex 8. List of Federal and State Government Mission Participants ..................................... 41 
Annex 9. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................. 42 
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................................ 43 
Annex 11: Fadama II Implementation in Pictures .................................................................... 45 




                                                                      iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                         Second National
Country:                Nigeria                   Project Name:          Fadama Development
                                                                         Project
Project ID:             P063622                   L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-38380,TF-55393
ICR Date:               06/29/2010                ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                         NIGERIA
Original Total
                        XDR 69.6M                 Disbursed Amount:      XDR 69.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 69.6M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
 National Fadama Coordination Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/09/2002       Effectiveness:                           05/27/2004
Appraisal:            06/28/2003       Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/16/2003       Mid-term Review:        06/29/2007       06/15/2007
                                       Closing:                12/31/2009       12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:        Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Highly Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Highly Satisfactory                    Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                  v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                   10                  10
Crops                                                                 12                  12
Irrigation and drainage                                               30                  30
Other social services                                                 36                  36
Roads and highways                                                    12                  12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                                                14                  14
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                  14                  14
Participation and civic engagement                                    29                  29
Rural policies and institutions                                       14                  14
Rural services and infrastructure                                     29                  29

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Poonam Gupta                         Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:            Karen Mcconnell Brooks               Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project Team Leader:       Abimbola Adubi                       Sidi C. Jammeh
ICR Team Leader:           Abimbola Adubi
ICR Primary Author:        Abimbola Adubi


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
1. Sustainably increase the incomes of fadama users.


                                               vi
 2. Empower communities to take charge of their own development agenda.

  3. Reduce conflict between fadama user groups.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target   Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from      Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval        Target         Completion or
                                                documents)       Values         Target Years
                By end of project, 50 percent of fadama resource users benefiting from the
Indicator 1 : project have increased their average real incomes by 20 percent compared to
                baseline.
                                            Average real
                                                                             Average real
                                            income of 50% of
Value           Average farm income -                                        income of 50% of
                                            beneficiaries
quantitative or gross margin = N106,454                                      beneficiaries
                                            increased by 20%
Qualitative)    per ha.                                                      increased by 63% at
                                            at end of the
                                                                             end of project.
                                            project)
Date achieved 06/30/2003                    12/31/2008                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                By end of project, 60 percent of FCAs have successfully implemented their
Indicator 2 : LDPs and other project-funded activities, using environmentally sustainable and
                socially inclusive practices.
                                                                             average of 94.5 %
Value
                                                                             ranging from 82%
quantitative or NA                          60%
                                                                             to 100 % of FCAs
Qualitative)
                                                                             across states
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    12/31/2008                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : By year 6, conflict between fadama users has been reduced by 75 percent.
                                                                             Conflicts were
                                                                             reduced by an
Value
                Conflict cases reported is 75% reduction in                  average of 85% (in
quantitative or
                792                         conflict.                        fact Zero conflict
Qualitative)
                                                                             was reported in 6
                                                                             states)
Date achieved 06/30/2003                    12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %



                                              vii
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                By end of project, at least 50 percent of FCAs participating in the project are
Indicator 1 : successfully managing the participatory planning process and the demands of
                project implementation.
                                                                               average of 89.6 %,
Value
                                                                               ranging from 82%
(quantitative   NA                          50%
                                                                               to 100 % of FCAs
or Qualitative)
                                                                               across states
Date achieved 06/30/2003                    12/31/2008                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                By end of project, at least 70 percent of total number of subprojects of various
Indicator 2 :
                types started under the project have been completed.
                                                                               average of 99.6 %
Value
                                                                               and 99.3 to 100 %
(quantitative   NA                          70 %
                                                                               completion across
or Qualitative)
                                                                               states
Date achieved 06/30/2003                    12/31/2008                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                By end of project, prices paid by participating FUGs under the Project are not
Indicator 3 :
                greater than prices paid by non participating groups for the same assets.
                                                                               Prices paid by
                                                                               FCAs/FUGs are
                                                                               30% lower than the
                                                                               average market
Value
                                            Equal or less by at                prices for acquired
(quantitative   NA
                                            least 10% to 20%.                  assets by individual
or Qualitative)
                                                                               members or non-
                                                                               members due to
                                                                               bulk price
                                                                               advantages.
Date achieved 06/30/2003                    12/31/2008                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                By end of Project, fadama users have increased benefits/returns from those
Indicator 4 :
                fadama enterprises for which they utilized advisory services by 20 percent.
Value                                       Increase by 20                     Available data from
                NA
(quantitative                               percent.                           some states indicate


                                               viii
or Qualitative)                                                              that the benefits
                                                                             from advisory
                                                                             services range
                                                                             between 20% and
                                                                             50%
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  12/31/2008                         12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                By end of Project, fadama users have increased benefits/returns from those
Indicator 5 :
                fadama enterprises for which they utilized advisory services by 20 percent.
Value
                                          Increase by 20
(quantitative   NA
                                          percent.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                  12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     02/10/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     09/09/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      5.86
  3     12/27/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      9.08
  4     06/14/2005       Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    13.64
  5     12/22/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    22.87
  6     06/29/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    43.93
  7     10/04/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    56.25
  8     12/22/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    66.59
  9     05/13/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    75.93
 10     11/30/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    86.68
 11     06/14/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    94.43
 12     12/14/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   101.33
 13     06/23/2009          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   102.29
 14     08/26/2009          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   100.88


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               ix
I. Disbursement Profile




                          x
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At appraisal Nigeria's agricultural sector employed about 70 per cent of the country's
labor force, accounted for about 37 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and was
home to about 70 per cent of the population at or below the poverty line. Agricultural
productivity and rural incomes were lower at appraisal than they were twenty years before.
The farming systems were and continue to be predominantly upland subsistence agriculture
that are highly dependent on the vagaries of the weather, while the potential for irrigation,
remains underdeveloped. The average irrigated area per rural household of six people was less
than one hectare. The use of key inputs, such as fertilizers, and improved seeds, and
mechanization was low and irrigation efficiency was also low, at about 20 per cent.

2.      Rational for Bank Assistance: At the time of project identification, the government's
strategy of raising rural productivity and incomes was built on five pillars: (i) increasing
yields, (ii) producing high value crops and livestock, (iii) reducing loss of production and
costs of inputs, (iv) stimulating investment, employment and income in the rural non-farm
sector, and (v) reducing conflicts among the resource users. In order to boost rural
production, the government requested Bank assistance for a follow-on Fadama II project that
could demonstrate ways to achieve these goals--with emphasis on investing in productive
infrastructure, diversifying rural livelihood activities improving access to finance and creating
better mechanisms for conflict resolution.

3.     The World Bank (WB) Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) supported fully the
government's strategy for rural development and the design of Fadama II was structured to
address the five pillars of the CPS. The Second National Fadama Development Project
(Fadama II) aimed at stimulating poverty-reducing growth in the fertile lowlands and
depressions called fadama and at empowering local communities to play an active role in their
own development. "Fadama" is a Hausa name for irrigable land--usually low-lying plains
underlay by shallow aquifers found along Nigeria's major river systems. Such lands are
especially suitable for irrigated crop production and fishing, and traditionally provide feed and
water for livestock. The enormous potential of this land is only very partially developed.
Given the experience and success of Fadama I for crop farmers, Fadama II refined approaches
for improved utilization of these lands through an innovative local development planning
(LDP) tool and building on the success of the community-driven development mechanisms.
The concept of the LDP is a home grown Nigerian innovation in local development planning.  




                                               1
4.      The Fadama project supported the government's strategy to enhance poverty reducing
growth in Nigeria's non-oil economy. It proposed to do so by empowering local communities
with public funds earmarked for their own development and with the facilitation support
needed to help them utilize these funds in a responsible manner. This paradigm shift is
anchored in the concept of the LDP, whereby organized economic interest groups follow a
socially-inclusive and participatory process for preparing their local development plans as
well as the tested and proven CDD approach. The project aimed at stimulating poverty-
reducing growth in the non-oil sector by: (i) financing investments in human and physical
capital; (ii) building capacity of government and private service providers to deliver services
to community organizations, (iii) improving the capacity of the economically-active rural poor
to raise their incomes through targeted activities; and (iv) promoting harmonious and
sustainable management of natural resources. The introduction of these new innovations
provided the rationale for Bank engagement in the project

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators (as approved)


5.     The PDO, as described in the PAD, was "to sustainably increase the incomes of
Fadama users through empowering communities to take charge of their own development
agenda, and by reducing conflict between Fadama user groups."

6.     The key outcome indicators agreed between the government and the WB to measure
achievement of the development objectives were:

        By the end of the project, 50 percent of Fadama resource users benefiting from the
        project have increased their average real income by 20 percent compared to the
        baseline.
        By the end of the project, 60 percent of Fadama Community Associations (FCAs)
        have successfully implemented their Local Development Plans (LDPs) and other
        project funded activities using environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive
        practices.
        By year six, conflicts between Fadama users have been reduced by 75 percenti.


7.       The project planned to achieve the objectives through the empowerment of the
beneficiaries by transferring project funds directly to the communities and providing
facilitation support, including training and appropriate technical assistance support designed
to build their capacity to use these resources properly for their own development. The Project


i
 The PAD specifies different targets for this indicator: 50 percent in paragraph 2 of main text and Annex 2 and
75 percent in Annex 13 (page 94); for the purpose of the ICR the target of 75 percent is used as relevant
benchmark.


                                                       2
followed a decentralized implementation strategy, based on the CDD approach and the LDP
concept, as a tool for local planning and consensus building.

1.3 Revised PDOs (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification


8.     There were no revisions of the project development objectives or the key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries.


9.      The direct and indirect beneficiaries of the project were estimated at about 3 million
households of Fadama resource users and non-resource users who live in Fadama
communities. The Fadama population is heterogeneous, and is not limited to farmers. A
significant aim of the project was to ensure that the various Fadama resource user groups learn
to respect each other's rights to a resource endowment mainly of scarce land and water
resources which they share in common, and take individual decisions, while keeping in mind
the impact of their actions on others and on the Fadama environment in general. Equally
important, the project also aimed to ensure that the less dominant Fadama users (fishers,
pastoralists, hunters/gatherers) were also recognized as legitimate users of the shared
resources, and their rights acknowledged and respected.

10.     The indirect beneficiaries of the project were other members of the communities that
benefited from the use of improved infrastructure and other productive investment sub-
projects, staff of public agencies at the federal, state and local government levels; who
benefitted from the project's institution-building interventions, as well as public and private
sector service providers, including NGOs.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.    The project had five components:

Component 1: Capacity building -US$18.02 million (of which US$17.00m financed by IDA)


12.     This component was designed to support measures to build capacity of Fadama
Community Associations (FCAs) and their constituent Economic Interest Groups (EIGs) and
Fadama User Groups (FUGs), so that they would be equipped with the necessary skills and
know-how to participate fully in the implementation of the project, according to CDD
principles and the LDP approach. The introduction of the LDP concept was a homegrown
Nigerian innovation in local planning. It was designed both as a tool for community-level
planning and for conflict management. The LDP was a culture change in the sense that the

                                              3
planning of community development activities followed an inclusive and participatory
process, whereby all potential Fadama resource users--farmers, pastoralists, hunters, fisher
folks, traders, agro-processors--participated in collective decision-making on setting the
priorities for their community and how the funds from the project could be utilized to meet
their collectively-identified needs (in the form of subprojects).

Component 2: Rural Infrastructure Investment - US$53.55 million (of which US$48.20m
financed by IDA)

13.      Under this component, the project provided financing for the construction or
rehabilitation of eligible small scale infrastructure subprojects specified as priorities in the
Local Development Plans (LDPs) and larger subprojects that cut across LDPs but which are
considered priorities by the FCAs. Ninety per cent of the funding of the infrastructure
subproject--all of which were of the public goods type--were in the form of grants, with the
beneficiaries paying the remainder in cash or in-kind as matching contribution. Eligible
subproject included inter alia water resources infrastructure, such as drainage systems,
irrigation systems, reticulation assembly, boreholes, water pumping machines, overhead
tanks, water troughs, small earth and rock-filled dams and other miscellaneous infrastructure;
Fadama access roads; market infrastructure (for storage, conservation, culverts, cooling
sheds), VIP latrines and cold rooms. In order to avoid the neglect of livestock-related
infrastructure which contributed to the farmer-pastoralist conflicts under the predecessor
Fadama I project, this component financed cross-FCA infrastructure, which included stock
routes, watering points and grazing reserve.

Component 3: Pilot Productive Asset Acquisition Support - US$25.09 million (of which
US$10.00m financed by IDA)

14.     The overall objective of this component was to enhance the capacity of the
beneficiaries to diversified livelihood opportunities by assisting them to access funding to
acquire productive assets. A matching grant mechanism was established. It operated on the
principle that the beneficiary pays, upfront and in cash, the equivalent of 40 percent of the
cost of the asset in order to receive a matching grant of the remaining 60 percent from the
project' Eligible assets included irrigation pumps, agro-processing equipment; fishing
equipment, including small motorized fishing boats, and equipment for honey extraction.

Component 4: Demand-Responsive Advisory Services - US$11.19 million (of which
US$10.00m financed by IDA)

15.    The component supported the advisory services demanded by the beneficiary-FCAs.
The services enabled the FCAs to access and adopt appropriate technologies and associated
extension services to improve their diversified farm and non-farm enterprises as well as
enhance their environmental management practices. This approach represented a paradigm

                                               4
shift from the tradition-bound supply-driven approach, which had proved to be non-
responsive to the needs of the end-users of the services--the farmers. Under this component,
the beneficiary-FCAs/FUGs managed the implementation of the advisory services
(appropriate research and extension support), including choosing where and from whom to
purchase the services/s, and entering into a contract arrangement with the service provider
directly.

Component 5: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation - US$16.23 million (of which
US$13.50m financed by IDA)
The component had three subcomponents with the following objectives:

16.     Project Management Subcomponent that supported new or existing institutional
entities and mechanisms at the federal, state and local levels for overall project coordination
and supervision and should help to strengthen the effectiveness and quality of the project
operations.

17.    Support to the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD)
enhanced the existing database and the policy and strategy formulation and implementation
capacity of the ministry.

18.    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) mechanisms subcomponent was established at the
State Fadama Development Offices (SFDOs) and the National Fadama Development Office
(NFDO), and financed new and/or upgraded Management Information System (MIS) to
monitor and evaluate implementation of the project.

19.     The first four components were central to the paradigm shift in rural development in
Nigeria associated with the Fadama II Project. The paradigm shift was triggered by adopting
the LDP mechanism and the CDD approach to move public/project resources directly to the
organized and legally-constituted community groups on a demand-driven basis to use for their
own development. The LDP, used as a tool for socially-inclusive and participatory
development planning, aimed to enhance group cohesion and reduces resource-access based
conflicts in all the states where the project was to be implemented. By introducing the LDP
approach, participating communities under the project were, thus, being empowered to make
decisions on their own livelihoods activities, and given increasing voice in the use of public
resources.

20.    The project also utilized a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$1.30m.

1.6 Revised Components

21.    There was no revision of the Project components during project implementation.


                                              5
1.7 Other Significant Changes

22.    There were no significant changes in project design, scope and scale, implementation
arrangement and schedule.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

23.     The project built on positive results of earlier rural development projects especially the
Fadama I which was operational between 1993 and 1999. The following key lessons of the
first Fadama project were incorporated in the design of Fadama II:

       Improved marketing infrastructure is central to a successful Fadama operation: While
       Fadama I expanded production and incomes, thanks to the adoption of simple, low-
       cost irrigation techniques, crop losses were very high due to lack of attention to
       marketing infrastructure and other value-addition interventions, such as processing;
       this lesson was incorporated in the design of the Infrastructure and the Asset
       Acquisition components. 
       A top down approach to rural development undermines real community ownership and
       participation, thereby hindering ownership and sustainability. This lesson inspired the
       key innovation in Fadama II, namely empowering the beneficiary communities to take
       their destiny in their own hands. This was done in a social inclusive manner to
       organize the poor and adopting a cost sharing principle. 
       Improved mechanisms for conflict avoidance and management through adoption of
       Local Development Plan (LDP) approach. Under Fadama I, sporadic conflicts between
       pastoralists and sedentary farmers presented serious security concerns to both the
       Government and the Bank. Expansion of irrigated farming was, in some places, done
       on land hitherto used by pastoralists for their own livelihood--as stock route, watering
       point or pasture; and the project failed to include any compensating arrangement for
       the pastoralists. The innovation in Fadama II through the adoption of the Local
       Development Planning (LDP) method as an inclusive approach resolved this. 
 
24.     These innovations proposed by the Bank during the project preparation phase initially
did not correspond with the Government's initial concept of the project, which was focused on
getting the ADPs serve as the institutional home, thereby maintaining the prevailing top-
down, supply-driven approach to rural development planning and implementation.
Reconciling the contrasting views, especially with regards to the institutional framework and
implementation arrangements of the follow-on Fadama II project led to a protracted (2 year)
preparation and appraisal period. Other reasons why project preparation was delayed this long
were: (i) the impasse about resolving identified mis-procurement in an earlier project of the
Bank portfolio, which led to a temporary moratorium on new Bank-lending to the sector; (ii)
                                                6
reduced IDA envelope because of adoption of a low-case scenario, which held up availability
of IDA resources for Fadama II; and (iii) classification of Fadama II as corporate risk project
due to alleged farmer-pastoralist conflicts under Fadama I.

25.     The Bank and the counterpart project teams effectively used this period for extensive
and intensive stakeholder-consultations, which paid-off handsomely, as it improved quality at
entry significantly. It also avails the opportunity for the project team to build a constituency
and local ownership for the project, thus creating a conducive environment for the
innovations.

Assessment of Project Design:

26.    There was a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the project's quality at entry
which was rated as satisfactory. The project also benefitted from additional reviews from the
Nigeria Country Team and key development partners, particularly DFID.

2.2 Implementation

27.     The project was implemented as designed. The implementation experience show that:
(a) the design proved to be sound; (b) there was an initial steep learning curve, which is not
atypical for CDD-type projects as it takes time to mobilize; (c) Bank and counterpart project
teams worked closely in identifying and resolving problems as a team; (d) once initial start-up
problems were resolved, project implementation accelerated noticeably; and (e) because of
positive experience under Fadama II, the follow-on Fadama III operation was approved prior
to the Fadama II closing date.

28.     In response to findings of early supervision missions, certain measures were taken in
order to improve implementation:

        Pilot Productive Asset Acquisition component--the grant element of the Matching
        Grant was raised from 60 percent to 70 percent . It was found that the required
        counterpart contribution of 40 percent limited access to the matching grant to only a
        few beneficiaries, thereby reducing the pro-poor impact of the project. 
        Demand-responsive Advisory Services-- following the local project team's study
        tour to Tanzania in 2006 to learn from the implementation experience with a similar
        CDD-type agricultural sector project, the project introduced a subcomponent to
        provide input support through a matching grant arrangement.  
        Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation--the number of Facilitators was
        doubled from the original 20 per State to 40 in order to increase project management
        capacity to provide for adequate training and technical assistance support to the
        participating community organizations. In addition, efforts were stepped up to


                                               7
        improve the M&E system (see section 2.3 for details). A reallocation of the proceeds
        of the Credit was effected accordingly. 

29.    The project met or exceeded most output targets and was completed on schedule, and
thanks to the adoption of the LDP planning and disbursement tool, and the acceleration of
implementation after the initial learning curve, the IDA credit was fully disbursed almost one
year before the project completion date. The exchange rate differentials also allowed the
project to utilize more funds in implementing project activities. Some of the key lessons
learned and, subsequently incorporated in the design of the follow-on Fadama III project, are
summarized in section 6 of this report.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

30.     The guiding principle of the project from the outset was that without a robust and user-
friendly M&E system, including an operational MIS and the capacity needed at both the
central and local levels to properly manage such a system, it would be difficult to conduct a
meaningful tracking of implementation progress and/or correctly evaluate project
achievements. The M&E system of the project was properly set up but as implementation
progressed, it was found inadequate to handle all the data requirements and tracking of a
complex and rapidly expanding CDD project. Moreover the capacity of staff was deficient in
some states.

31.     To address these issues, the Mid-term review mission carried out an assessment of the
M&E system and recommended measures designed to improve it. Implementation of these
measures did bring about remarkable improvements. The M&E system and the installed MIS
became more user- friendly and fully operational to capture required input for a credible
database for the project. The system consisted of a toolkit and guidelines for timely data
collection and analysis for project monitoring and evaluation, including the updating of the
Results Framework; and an M&E implementation Manual for carrying out M&E activities.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

32.     Financial Management. Financial management risk of the Project was assessed as
high as at Appraisal. This was mainly because of the inherent risks and issues associated with
CDD, not because of the control risks associated with the basic elements of the project's
financial arrangement. However, these inherent risks were well mitigated by the effective use
of the Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU), which featured robust controls (internal
and external). The PFMU was strengthened with additional resources and capacity was built
through the development of standardized written procedures and by training. Supervision
intensity focused on risk, initially on the PAD FM risk rating and subsequently on the
updated FM risk rating during implementation. Project activities were periodically reviewed


                                               8
by the Internal Audit Unit (IAU) in the PFMUs and the Internal Auditors at the NFDO and
NFRA, respectively. Challenges identified during problem-solving supervision missions were
properly resolved. And audit reports were timely and of acceptable quality. Overall, the
project's financial architecture was sound and the financial management aspects of the project
received adequate attention during project preparation and implementation.

33.     Procurement. Procurement performance was generally satisfactory. In addition to
carrying out the prior review of the project, field visits were carried out to conduct post
procurement review regularly. An Independent Procurement Audit was conducted, as needed
and the procurement team participated in the mid-term review exercise of the project. The
overall assessment is that the project's procurement operations, which were decentralized,
were well managed. Excellent procurement performance contributed in no small measure to
the project being able to fully disburse the IDA credit more than twelve months ahead of the
project completion date. This is unprecedented in Nigeria.

34.     Safeguards. The project triggered six safeguards policies including Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Forestry (OP/GP 4.36), Pest
Management (OP 4.09), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and Projects in International
Water Ways (OP/BP 7.60). Appropriate instruments namely ESMF, RPF and PMP were
prepared, disclosed and well implemented. In addition, riparian notification was delivered to
the Niger Basin Commission and each of the concerned riparian states. In particular, all micro
projects identified for funding by the project had to pass through a rigorous mandatory
screening using an agreed safeguard checklist to ensure compliance with Bank social and
environmental safeguards policies. The environmental and social management plans (EMPs)
were adequately funded and properly implemented. Environmental specialists were employed
by the project at national and state levels that were responsible and accountable for all
safeguards compliance. Therefore, the project's overall management of the safeguards issues
was good.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

35.     The key innovation of the Fadama II project was the adoption of the LDP approach.
The experience with this innovation has so far been positive, and the popular demand for
Fadama-type projects is reinforced by the evident pro-poor impact which the project has had
on the beneficiaries.

36.    Scaling-up: Fadama II has demonstrated that a system that is based on empowering
communities work. While the income effects were evident (see Annex 2 ), it was the project's
impact on social capital and its decentralized implementation arrangements which seemed to
catch the attention of most observers. As a result of the emerging success-story,
representatives of state governments exerted political pressure on the Federal government

                                              9
authorities for the next phase follow-on operation. The states which had not benefited from
the Fadama II project--numbering 19 states-- have been the most vocal and persistent. These
requests came in different forms -- stake holder consultations, official letters from Governors
to the Ministry of Finance or through direct communication with the Country Director. This
popular demand perhaps triggered the government's enthusiasm about scaling-up project
successes nationwide, with a follow-on project.

37.     Other donors also responded positively to the Fadama II project. The African
Development Bank is implementing a project similar to Fadama II in six states bringing the
total number of states benefiting from the Fadama II project to eighteen. The Global
Environment Fund (GEF) funded in 2006 (Board date: April 11, 2006) the Critical
Ecosystem Component of Fadama II to enhance the productivity of Fadama areas and the
livelihood systems they support through sustainable land use and water management in six
states.

38.     The Fadama III Project was approved by the Board on July 1, 2008, prior to the
closing date of FADAMA II. The Bank is supporting it with an IDA Credit of US$250
million.This project is expected to consolidate the successful achievements of Fadama II and
to scale-up in order to cover all the states of the Federation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

39.     The project as designed and implemented, addresses key development priorities that
remain highly relevant to Nigeria today. The Government's National Economic
Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS) explicitly recognized the strategic
importance of the agricultural sector and listed a number of special initiatives that the federal
government intended to pursue to promote increased production. The NEEDS set out a series
of quantitative targets to be achieved in the sector, including 6 percent annual growth in
agricultural GDP, US $3 billion per year in agricultural exports, and 95 percent national food
self-sufficiency. The agricultural policy objectives outlined in the NEEDS were
complemented by those contained in the New Agricultural Policy. In addition to the strategic
objectives outlined in the NEEDS, the Government also unveiled a seven-point agenda for
economic development. The Fadama program was explicitly recognized as part of this agenda. 
 
40.     "Fadama" lands are especially suitable for irrigated production and fishing, and
traditionally provide feed and water for livestock. The enormous potential of this land is only
very partially developed. The Fadama I and II projects successfully refined approaches for
improved utilization of these lands. The cumulative impact of the earlier successful Bank-
assisted projects attests to the robustness of the small-scale and community-based approach to

                                              10
fadama development in an environmentally sensitive manner. The project approach is still
relevant to the rural development strategy of Nigeria as reflected in the design and
implementation arrangements of the follow-on FADAMA III project. The follow-on Fadama
III Project intends to scale-up the achievements of the predecessor first and second phase
Fadama operations.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

41.     The Fadama II project achieved its contribution to the sector-related CAS goal:
stimulating poverty reducing growth in the Fadama lowlands. It has made substantial
contributions to the wellbeing of the beneficiaries and the local economy. The expansion in
rural incomes, provision of community-owned marketing and improved transportation
infrastructure, as well as provision of capital assets for diversified livelihood activities
changed the socio-economic outlook of hitherto poor communities in the 12 beneficiary-
states. Equally important, the Fadama II Project contributed to: (a) expansion in the stock of
social capital through its capacity building support both to the beneficiary communities and
the decentralized implementation system and (b) substantial reductions in conflicts among
resource users. Annex 2, presents the Results Matrix of the project at completion and
indicated that the project reached or exceeded in almost all cases, the monitorable outcome
targets set at appraisal.

42.      The achievement of agreed outcome indicators is examined in detail below.

(a)   Real Incomes of 50 percent of beneficiaries will increase by 20 percent at project
completion (PDO)-

43.      At project completion, the real income of 50 percent of beneficiaries of fadama II
project is estimated to have increased by 63 percent as shown in Annex. This was not entirely
surprising because an independent evaluation of the Fadama II Projectii which was conducted
at mid-term by IFPRI, to assess the impact of Fadama II already portrayed this trend (see
details in Annex 5).

(b)    By the end of the project, 60 percent of Fadama Community Associations (FCAs)
have successfully implemented their Local Development Plans (LDPs) and other project
funded activities using environmentally sustainable and socially inclusive practices.

44.    This outcome was fully achieved and exceeded, according to the findings of the ICR
mission at project completion. Approximately 84 per cent of the FCAs had satisfactorily



ii
 International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI): `Impacts of Pro-Poor Community-Driven Development Project in
Nigeria (Fadama II Project", March 2008


                                                          11
implemented their LDPs. The project established 1,470 FCAs and successfully implemented
1,246 LDPs out of the 1,318 submitted. This result shows that about 95 per cent of the LDPs
demanded by the beneficiaries have been implemented. In addition, more than 90 per cent of
the productive assets micro-projects/subprojects demanded by the FUGs have been
completed. The support provided under the productive assets component enabled the
beneficiaries to acquire 73,599 pieces of equipment through 7,766 subprojects. The total
number of FUGs involved in these subprojects came to 6,301, involving approximately 3.4
million households. Subprojects funded under this project were subjected to rigorous
screening to test for environmental sustainability and were prepared in a socially-inclusive
and participatory manner, using the LDP tool and the CDD approach.

(c)    By year six, conflicts between Fadama users have been reduced by 75 percent.


45.     This outcome was achieved and surpassed. By December 2009, six of the participating
states registered zero (0) conflicts, while the remaining six (6) states reported only a few
isolated cases of minor conflicts, reflecting a reduction of 85 percent per cent compared to the
baseline. This notable achievement is attributable to the successful adoption of the LDP, as a
planning tool which brings all the participating economic interest/resource-user groups
(sedentary farmers, pastoralists, gatherers, etc.) to the table, and participate in a socially-
inclusive process of collectively identifying the development priorities of their respective
communities and translating those priorities into investment activities, which are written into
their (FCA) LDP and the associated budget. Any investment subproject that is not reflected in
the approved LDP is not eligible for financing by the project. Approval of an LDP is subject,
among other things, to passing a test indicating that the integrity of the LDP process,
especially in terms of social inclusion and participation, has been respected. Moreover, the
Fadama II project included specific interventions under the Infrastructure component to
finance cross-FCA infrastructure, including stock routes, grazing reserves and watering
points. Neglect of the economic interests of pastoralists under Fadama I was the main cause of
the reported farmer-pastoralist conflicts which led the Fadama II project to be classified as a
Corporate Risk project, upstream; it is against this background that the observed reduction in
conflicts is indeed remarkable.

3.3 Efficiency

46.     The overall financial and economic analyses were undertaken using both the financial
and economic rates of return (FRR and ERR) for Fadama II. The resulting ERR and FRR of
returns are shown in the table below: (see detailed report in Annex 3).




                                              12
          Table 1: National Level: Summary of Economic and Financial Analysis
                                           Baseline (PAD)        2009 (ICR)
          FRR                                   45%                 48%
          ERR                                   40%                 43%


47.     The PAD estimated the project's economic rate of return (ERR) at 40 percent and
financial rate of return (FRR) of 45 percent, assuming a 12 percent opportunity cost of capital.
The highest returns were expected from mixed crop-livestock farming (43 percent), agro-
processing (41 percent) and aquaculture (31 percent). The financial rate of return FRR was
expected to vary according to the region and the farming model from 26 percent to 56 percent.
However, at ICR, the ERR and FRR were 43 percent and 48 percent respectively. And
although these values, respectively, representing a marginal increase of 7.5 percent and 6.7
percent over and above the ex-ante (PAD) values, the project shows excellent overall
economic and financial rate of returns considering that the ERR was almost 4 times while the
FRR was exactly 4 times higher than the opportunity cost of capital.

48.      The robustness of these rates of returns was evaluated through sensitivity analysis by
decreasing the output price of major commodities on the one hand while increasing the project
life and cost of operation and investment on the other hand. It was found that the project's
feasibility was sensitive to changes in the output price and increase in project life but much
less influenced by changes of operation and investment costs.

49.     Targeting efficiency: The value of productive assets owned by women FUGs
increased significantly compared to the value of productive assets belonging to those not
participating in the project. By targeting women, the project may have helped women to
eliminate the income-gap between them and men. As with the value of productive assets, the
income change for female beneficiaries was significantly greater than the income change for
females not benefitting from the project. These results demonstrate that the project succeeded
in properly targeting the vulnerable groups. The project was able to target women and 43
percent of the groups established were women groups with income increases by more than
400 percent compared with non beneficiary women.

50.      Sustainability. The financial sustainability of the project is clearly evident from the
observed operation of most beneficiaries over the life of the project. They have expanded their
operations from the group savings made from the project. Various cases have been identified
of the economically-active FCAs/FUGs that initially benefitted from infrastructure and
productive investments, graduating from the matching grant program, and are now beginning
productive undertakings with the assistance of conventional sources of funding (e.g. the
NACRDB, Community Banks), or other programs. Some FCAs/FUGs demonstrated a great
ability to use their own resources to acquire additional assets rather than seek assistance from

                                              13
repeated matching grants. During the ICR mission, an assessment of most Fadama II
community procured assets and infrastructure showed that they are still being utilized and are
functioning. The introduction of user fees and other mechanisms to generate savings or
revolving funds (examples of community-level capitalization) is being introduced which
could be redeployed in the same livelihood activities. Also, the establishment of LDP
process iii through participatory mechanism increased the likelihood of internalizing the
community needs, perspectives, and ownership. In fact, most LGAs in Oyo and Niger states
incorporate Fadama projects as part of their annual Workplan and Budgets and participate
effectively in the supervision of the sub-projects. Fadama III should further strengthen this
recognition.

51.      Furthermore, the integration of community plans in the local government planning
program and the improvements in good governance and organizational capacity of local
governments (both elected officials and line department staff) at the district level ensured
sustainability. In addition, the investments in capacity building through training and technical
assistance to the FUGs/FCAs as well as improving the capacities of service providers and
facilitators led to the enhancement of the supply side of advisory services. Most LGAs have
taken up the maintenance of community owned infrastructure and in some cases, there is a
revenue/cost sharing arrangements between the Communities and LGAs in the maintenance of
infrastructure.

52.     The emphasis on communication strategy enhanced the visibility of the Project's
results and thereby increasing government commitment to the Project and its approach. The
local governments showed great interests in the project approach and at the federal level, this
commitment was reflected in the recognition of CDD approach in government's
macroeconomic and sectoral policies, such as the Rural Sector Strategy, New Agricultural
Policy, and National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

53.    The rating is based on: (i) relevance of the design and focus of the project, by
successfully introducing CDD approaches which were relevant to the rural development of the
country and appropriate to the political economy of the period; (ii) clarity of PDO with


iii
  The starting point of the LDP process is the Community Needs Assessment, using the PRA approach, which will describe
the socioeconomic setting of the community and the social-mapping, construct the livelihood profiles, identify the relevant
technical, physical, environmental, and institutional constraints, leading to the development of a set of proposals designed to
overcome these constraints. The Community Needs Assessment Report will be the source of information for the collective
identification of the development priorities of the communities by the FCAs and the translation of those priorities into
investment subprojects and other activities to be funded under the Project.


                                                             14
measurable and specific indicators for outcomes; (iii) achievement of key performance
indicators; the project met or exceeded all targets as measured by outcome and impact
indicators; while achievements are sustainable; (iv) achievement of economic and financial
returns that surpass appraisal estimates; (v) on time completion of the project with good
management of safeguards and fiduciary aspects. The rating is further justified because of the
popular demand for Fadama-type projects and the Government's enthusiastic support for
scaling-up the project's innovative approaches, especially the institutional innovation of the
LDP, which empowers the organized beneficiary communities to take charge of the
management of their livelihood activities, and decentralized implementation arrangements.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.     The targeted beneficiaries of the project were fadama users who are generally poor as
more than 60 percent of the country's poor live and earn their living in the rural areas. The
less dominant fadama users such as fishermen, pastoralists, hunters/gatherers etc. were
positively impacted by the transformational changes which the project promoted through a
social inclusive mechanism. The project made a substantial contribution to both the quality of
life of the rural poor and the local economy. The pro-poor impacts came from improved
productivity, increased household income, and increased employment. Cumulatively, these
effects of project interventions contributed positively in bringing about changes that could
gradually lift the beneficiary households from poverty. Prior to the project, most of the
fadama users did not have voice and were not empowered to take their destiny in their own
hands. They also had limited or no access to improved productive infrastructure and value-
adding economic opportunities. Equally important are the non-quantifiable benefits,
associated with the project's capacity building and social mobilization activities. These led to
gradual yet substantial accumulation of social capital in hitherto poor communities.

55.     By adopting the LDP, as a local development planning tool, the project succeeded in
significantly reducing farmer-pastoralist conflicts. By being socially-inclusive and
participatory, this homegrown innovation in community development planning has become a
recognized and effective mechanism for conflict avoidance and management. Furthermore,
by building on the successes of the CDD mechanisms, the Fadama II project supported a
transformational paradigm shift from a culture of dependence--whereby farmers had to
contend with playing a passive role in their own development--to becoming actively involved
from identification to implementation of their livelihood subprojects. They became drivers of
their own development agenda.

56.    Through sensitization, training and technical assistance by the project facilitators, the
rural communities have become architects of the local development. In particular, the

                                              15
communities were trained to design the development plans that gave priority to the less
privileged, youth, and to the poor. The communities' participation in the development process
built a new culture of governance, including principles of transparency, accountability and
democratic decision making. The project's institutional innovations also have contributed to
social development.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening


57.     The project promoted a paradigm shift that changed the orientation of project
implementation from a top-down approach to decentralized implementation which moved
responsibility for day-to-day implementation to the local level. Communities were
empowered both with financial resources and the training and technical assistance support
needed to use public funds in a responsible manner for their own development. The
implementation coordination capacity of the supervising ministries at both the Federal and
State levels were strengthened by the project. In addition, the project recruited and trained a
network of Facilitators, numbering a total of 480 Facilitators (40 Facilitators/State), who were
deployed permanently throughout the project duration to provide training and technical
assistance support to the organized community groups participating in the project. In this
way, the project developed a critical mass of highly trained personnel who can be redeployed
by the relevant governmental agencies.

58.     At the community level, the project made substantial contributions to the expansion of
social capital. Program evaluations have shown that social capital has expanded at four levels:
(i) empowering the communities to exercise the determinant voice at the level of the local
government in the use of public resources-- through the Local Fadama Development
Committee (LFDC) (ii) strengthening the capacity of the communities to select, prioritize and
implement investment decisions; (iii) creating partnerships between the community
organizations, service providers and local governments; and (iv) fostering citizenship through
increased awareness of social responsibilities of citizens, their representatives and public
authorities in community matters and field implementing agencies.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts


59.     Although intangible and difficult to quantify, there is a palpable difference in self-
respect and confidence in many communities within the project zone The social groupings
established under the project have improved internal re-engineering in the communities and
have also engendered healthy competition among groups and communities for efficiency and
effectiveness of subproject execution. With capacity building and access to advisory activities,
the FCAs now participate actively in project management, monitoring and evaluation. In all
communities, several committees (including management, procurement, monitoring and
                                              16
evaluation, maintenance and environmental screening) have been developed and are
operational. A culture of paying of counterpart contributions (through cash, materials or labor)
has been developed and the LDP preparation process has integrated the principles of
transparency and inclusion and significantly improved group cohesion. Also the communities
are learning good governance by adopting a system of peer pressure and oversight to ensure
integrity of funds flow at the community level.

60.     A few other significant outcomes of the project were observed in the course of project
implementation. This relates principally to the spill-over effect of benefits to those that did not
benefit directly. In one of the states visited by the ICR team, an FCA was able to buy a tractor
(which was outside the range of outcomes expected) which it hires out to both members and
non-members. Also, most of the acquired Pilot Assets and Rural Infrastructure serve the entire
community and not just the FCA/FUG members. In another state, over 60 percent of the
advisory services activities knowledge or information received by beneficiaries was extended
to non-members, which is a significant spillover effect. The sensitization and capacity
building activities of the project led to significant changes in perception of gender related
issues. The situation of women considerably improved due to asset acquisition and support for
revenue generating activities of the vulnerable groups.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops


61.     Results of the IFPRI Beneficiary Assessment indicated that the Fadama II Project has
realized significant positive impacts on household incomes, acquisition of productive assets,
and access to markets and transport services. The impact of the Fadama II Project on
productive asset acquisition is large and statistically significant across asset terciles and
gender. Participation in the project increased the value of individual productive assets by 49
percent while the value of productive assets owned by group of beneficiaries increased by 590
percent. The larger and more significant impact of Fadama II on jointly owned productive
assets is a reflection of the project policy to support groups rather than individuals to acquire
productive assets. The dramatic increase in the value of productive assets resulting from
participation in the project is mainly due to the cash transfer from the 70 percent matching
fund that the project provides to Fadama user groups (FUGs). Fadama II has also contributed
to an increase in the stock of social capital, largely through its institution-building
interventions.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

62.   The ICR team noted that at the end of the project, the sustainability of the project
outcomes and the future of the CDD approach may face a potential social risk of resistance

                                                17
from stakeholders still glued to a culture of "business- as- usual" associated with the tradition-
bound top-down approach. However, the project has developed a strong constituency and
local ownership and this probably will a sufficient deterrent against such a risk. Another
possible risk has to do with potential diversion of funds, elite capture and outright corruption,
both at the central and local levels. Improvements in project governance and enforcement of
strict procurement guidelines and funds management would go a long way in minimizing this
risk, which seem to be associated with many CDD projects. In Fadama II, efforts were made
to ensure full disclosure by insistence on record keeping by groups and public display of
information on projects including expenditure and project funds received. Also the use of
project facilitators to conduct PRA and monitor community groups ensured that elite capture
is prevented. There is a risk that the less dominant fadama users may not get their fair share,
in terms of access and equal treatment under the project. The mitigation of this possible risk
must include measures to enhance targeting efficiency and pro-activity to ensure equal
treatment of these groups. Finally, there is also the added risk of inappropriate maintenance of
the existing infrastructure and equipment, absence of credit for future development, and
inadequate production support services for training, extension or counseling. The emergence
of these sets of risks in the next few years and their impact on the development outcomes is
considered modest since the government is still strongly committed to the participatory rural
development approach, and it is expected that the Fadama III Project will sustain and scale-up
the achievements of the Fadama II Project, while developing additional risk mitigation
measures, drawing from the lessons of the predecessor project. Furthermore, capacity of
FCAs has improved, conflict issues are being resolved through project mechanism and the
institutional structures including the local governments have strong support for the groups.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

63.     The Bank provided the necessary support to the project team to ensure a sound project
design; The Bank was proactive in ascertaining that environmental and social safeguards
policies were addressed and that fiduciary arrangements were adequate. Given the innovations
promoted under the project, the Bank ensured that preparation and appraisal work was
thorough, with the Bank engaging the policy makers on extensive dialogue, and the numerous
project-related studies and stakeholder workshops to build a constituency upfront for the
project, while taking the time needed to do this effectively.

64.    The Bank supported the team through cross-sectoral contributions. Team members
span several sectors including ESSD (rural and social development issues), HD (for CDD

                                               18
harmonization), WBI (social mobilization training), FM (for financial accountability issues),
FPSI ( for issues regarding matching grants and infrastructure, and pilot assets acquisitions),
AFREX ( for communication and social mobilization). The Bank ensured that there was
constant dialogue with the policymakers and extensive stakeholder-consultations in the
participating states and communities in order to build local ownership and buy-in for the
major project innovations. In addition, the Bank facilitated access to PHRD funds to ensure
that relevant analytical and technical work was done to prepare a project that was responsive
to the government's poverty reduction priorities. As it was classified as a corporate risk, the
project was of strategic relevance to both the Bank and the Government, and the Bank
encouraged the project team to seek innovative ways to avoid the pitfalls of the predecessor
project which led to such high-risk classification. The team met this challenge with the
introduction of the LDP, as an innovation in community-based planning.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

65.     Overall, the Bank consistently stressed the need to achieve targeted outcomes and paid
close attention to the innovations being tested. Bank supervision missions were problem-
solving in approach, and provided the necessary support to overcome the normal learning
curve problems that were encountered during the early implementation period. The Bank
ensured that stakeholder consultations which were key to building a strong constituency and
ownership of the innovative approaches would be a continuous process, and made sure that
the lessons learned during implementation were widely shared and incorporated into other
government and Bank programs. The Bank ensured that the project team had access to cross-
support from a seasoned multi-sectoral team to participate in supervisions in order to ensure
that the outcome of these missions met high standards of technical excellence. The
supervision of safeguard compliance issues was adequate as was the supervision of the
financial management and procurement aspects of the project.

66.    Implementation challenges identified were promptly addressed, and the Aide-
memoires and supervision reports were well prepared and shared with the Government and
other development partners. The project mid-term review was well prepared and the team
composition was adequate. Supervision was regular, constructive and showed a high degree of
proactively during the key milestone events of the projects. Supervision was responsive to
challenges on the project. For example, the ratio of beneficiary contribution to matching
grants was changed from 40:60 to 30:70 to allow participation of many beneficiaries, the
M&E system was overhauled and IFPRI was contracted to provide an independent beneficiary
assessment that provided a clear guide for project implementation. The project Task Team




                                              19
Leader (TTL) was changed three timesiv, but the movement of TTL responsibilities to the field
improved the oversight functions and early response to project challenges. The task team had
an excellent skill mix and included international expertise in project supervision. M&E,
Safeguards and fiduciary aspects were taken seriously and greatly helped to identify threats
proactively. There was a high commitment by task team and regular communication from
Bank management to the client.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

67.     The Bank teams were proactive and played a pivotal role in ensuring quality at entry
and in resolving problems and exploiting identified opportunities during supervision missions.
The Bank made decisive contributions to the success of the project.

5.2. Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

68.     Despite initial reservations, inspiring leadership and support from both the federal and
state governments were ultimately the determinants of the success of the Fadama II project.
The commitment of government, at central and state levels was demonstrated by prompt
counterpart-funding contributions and active participation in project preparation and
implementation. The Government made available resources for the project teams from various
agencies to participate actively in designing and preparing the project throughout the long
preparation period. The wrap-up meeting of one of the preparation missions (October 2002)
was chaired by President Obasanjo himself. He was also the presiding officer at the formal
project launch workshop. The investment of time and resources into stakeholder consultations
paid-off handsomely in terms of the local buy-in at all levels of government and at the
community level, in particular. Government facilitation of this process was pivotal. The
Ministry of Agriculture at both the central and state levels also played a pivotal role during
preparation and implementation.

69.   The government fulfilled all its obligations towards the project and complied with all
covenants and provided the counterpart contribution. However, the support from LGAs was
not uniform, and some of them did not provide the project with timely counterpart


iv
 Following promotion of the sitting TTL to a managerial function in the Bank, the last TTL only took over in
August 2009 when more than 98% of the proceeds of the Credit were already disbursed.


                                                     20
contribution, which delayed implementation of some development activities. There were also
isolated cases of political meddling or administrative interference in project implementation.
The most glaring case was in Imo state, which led to suspension of disbursement for this state
during much of the implementation period.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

70.     The Fadama operations utilized the existing structure of the supervising ministry
(FMARD) by using the Projects Coordinating Unit (PCU) of the ministry as lead
implementation agency, thereby ensuring convergence of policies, approaches, criteria and
operating procedures among similar government and externally-funded poverty-reduction
programs and projects in the sector. In addition, there was close collaboration between the
Fadama team and that of other Bank-assisted rural sector projects, notably the LEEMP and the
Community-based poverty reduction project both to ensure synergy and complimentary, and
to encourage fadama beneficiaries to seek funding of non-productive infrastructure that may
be ineligible for fadama funding from these and other projects of the social funds type.
Furthermore, the Project Steering Committee of Fadama II, which provided overall guidance
for project implementation, included representatives of Nigeria's other development partners
who are active in the rural sector.

71.    The day-to-day implementation coordination work was done through the NFDO based
in Abuja, the 12 SFDOs at the states and the 126 LFDs within the participating local
governments. However, the CDD approach required that these administrative structures were
merely the transmission channels and the guarantors of conformity with the implementation
measures in the project implementation manual. The project initiative was in the hands of
1,470 FCAs. This grassroots-oriented structure functioned remarkably well due to the
commitment and skill of the project personnel and its governing bodies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

72.    Based on the combination of the two ratings above, overall Borrower performance is
rated as Highly Satisfactory. The experiences and lessons of the project are already being
scaled up in the ongoing Bank-assisted follow-on Fadama III project, in federal and state
government programs and in the project's of other development partners of Nigeria. 




                                             21
6. Lessons Learned

73.      The Fadama II project represented a ground-breaking way of doing development work
with, for and by the beneficiary communities. The LDP concept was the transformational tool
for this empowerment of the beneficiary-communities. It was successful because it was owned
by the communities, socially inclusive and participatory. This was the central lesson of the
project. Equally important were other lessons summarized below:

       Empowering community organizations with resources and enhancing their
       capacity to manage these directly through CDD approach enhances efficiency and
       sustainability of targeted poverty-reduction projects. Until the capacity of the poor
       farmers has been sufficiently developed to improve their limitations and
       creditworthiness for traditional microfinance institutions, it is inevitable that they
       should be assisted with grants in order to participate in Fadama-type livelihood
       activities.
       Socially-inclusive approach to local development planning (LDP) can be an
       effective tool for avoiding and managing conflicts arising from competition to access
       scarce land and water resources for fadama enterprise. It is the central paradigm shift
       around which the entire Fadama system revolves.
       Keep an eye on sustainability of project supported interventions. Selection and
       management of subprojects by communities and their cost sharing in the matching
       grant facilitate sustainability. In order to lay a sound basis for sustainability, operations
       and maintenance of assets should be undertaken by communities and local
       governments, through O&M plans to be funded partly in cash or in-kind by the
       community organizations.
       Pursue harmonization of Local Development Plans. The experience of Bank-
       assisted CDD projects shows greater impact, synergy and complementary from
       harmonization of tools and approaches. This lesson has been the key to the emerging
       closer working relationships between the relevant project teams and removal of project
       overlap and duplication in communities. Standardization of subproject documents,
       technical designs, and unit costs simplifies the preparation and evaluation of
       subprojects, improves quality at entry, facilitates the procurement of goods and works,
       prevents over-design, and enables participation by community groups.
       Pay attention to environmental monitoring despite the small scale of subprojects.
       Because of their small scale, most of the subprojects financed under Fadama II did not
       have a significant effect on the environment. Nevertheless, the detailed environmental
       checklist and environmental management plan (EMP) which was mainstreamed and
       used in the LDP process for subproject screening and implementation ensured that no
       flag was raised throughout project implementation.



                                                22
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

   74.    The Borrower prepared its own ICR of which a summary is provided in Annex 7 and
   made the following recommendations for scaling-up:

          Agricultural Engineers should be appointed as desk officers at NFDO and SFDOs.
          A study should be commissioned to assess the national economic value and economic
          returns to the subprojects financed by the project.
          Advisory services activities should be carried out before or alongside subproject
          implementation.
          M&E should be strengthened and appropriate records kept.


   (b) Cofinanciers: n.a.

   (c) Other partners and stakeholders

   75.    The Civil Society organization requested for more involvement of independent
   agencies in project monitoring and review of community proposals.




                                             23
                                 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

       (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
            

                                         Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                               Percentage of
               Components               Estimate IDA      Estimate (USD
                                                                                Appraisal
                                       (USD millions)        millions)
 1. Capacity Building                             17.70                20.13                   114
 2. Rural Infrastructure                          48.20                34.93                   70
Investment
 3. Pilot Productive Assets                      10.00                15.32                    153
Acquisition Support
 4. Demand-Responsive                            10.00                 9.21                    92
Advisory Services
                                                                                           v
 5. Project Management,                          13.50                21.81                    162
Monitoring, & Evaluation
6. Project Preparation Facility                   1.30                 1.38                    106

                Total Baseline Cost             100.00             102.78                      103



                 Total Project Costs            100.00             102.78                      103


(b) Financing

P063622 - Second National Fadama Development Project
                                                   Appraisal                    Actual/Latest
                                                                                                  Percentage of
        Source of Funds       Type of Financing     Estimate                      Estimate
                                                                                                   Appraisal
                                                (USD millions)                 (USD millions)
Borrower                     Counterpart Fund              16.13                          12.72           79.00
                                                                                          vi
Local Communities            Contribution                    9.25                            2.80         30.20
International Development                                 100.00                         102.78             103
                             Credit
Association (IDA)




v
     See paragraph 28 for details for this increase.
vi
  This is due to the fact that the Benficiaries matching grant contribution was reduced as
indicated in text.


                                                    24
                               Annex 2. Outputs by Components

Result Matrix at Completion. (Achievement of the CAS goals, PDOs and the
Component's Objectives )
Objectives               Indicators (short                 Achievement Status
                         description)
Project Development Objectives
1. Sustainably increase  50% of fadama project             By the end of the project, the average increase
the income of fadama     beneficiaries have increased      in real income by 50% of the beneficiaries
users                    their average income by           was evaluated at 63%.
                         20%
2. Empower               60% of FCA have
communities to take      successfully implemented          95% of FCAs successfully implemented their
charge of their own      their LDP                         LDP.
development agenda
3. Reduce conflict       Conflicts between fadama          Conflicts were reduced by 85%.
between fadama use       users reduced by 75%
group
Components
1. Capacity of fadama    At least 50% of FCAs are          89.6% of FCAs are successfully managing the
users is strengthened    successfully managing the         participatory planning and demand of the
                         participatory planning and        project through functioning sub-committees.
                         demand of project
2. The supply of small-  At least 70% of subprojects       99.6% of the subprojects have been
scale infrastructure     have been implemented             implemented at the time of ICR
increases
3. Target groups acquire Total asset holdings by the       Total asset holding increased by 85 %
and productively use     target groups increased by
income-generating assets 20%                               Observation and comparison of assets during
                                                           the ICR mission indicated that the prices paid
                           Prices paid by participating    by participating FUGs are 30% lower than
                           FUGs under the project are      the prices paid by other users through bulk
                           not greater than the prices     purchases.
                           paid by other FUGs for the
                           same assets

4. Fadama users have       Fadama users have increased
adopted input enhancing    benefits or returns from        Available data situate the benefits from
techniques and more        those fadama enterprises for    advisory services between 20% and 50%.
effective marketing        which they utilized advisory
practices                  resources by 20%
5. Smooth project          Implementation progress
implementation ,           consistently receives           Project implementation was always rated
effective monitoring and   satisfactory of better rating   satisfactory
evaluation system in       in supervision reports.
place                      Monitoring and evaluation       M&E data were regularly collected and the
                           systems are producing useful    collection template updated regularly to
                           performance information on      capture the dynamics of CDD
                           quarterly basis.                implementation.

                                                 25
Objectives   Indicators (short              Achievement Status
             description)


                                            Data on outcome indicators are collected
             Impact information collected   regularly. The monitoring framework was
             and analyzed by decision       overhauled at mid-term to be more
             makers in the beginning year   responsive.




                                  26
                                 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The project produced significant benefits, especially in terms of increase in value-
added output and incomes of the beneficiaries through productivity increases. The expected
benefit targets were in almost all cases achieved or exceeded. The substantial increases in
value-addition-type activities, especially agro-processing, were noticeable. The overall
financial and economic analyses were undertaken using both the financial and economic rates
of return (FRR and ERR) for Fadama II. The resulting ERR and FRR are shown in the table
below:


              Annex 3,Table 1 : National Level: Summary of Economic and Financial
              Analysis
                                                 Baseline (PAD)       2009 (ICR)
              FRR                                     45%               48%
              ERR                                     40%               43%

2.      The PAD estimated the project's economic rate of return (ERR) at 40 percent and
financial rate of return (FRR) of 45 percent, assuming 12 percent opportunity cost of capital.
The highest returns were expected from mixed crop-livestock farming (43 percent), agro-
processing (41 percent) and aquaculture (31 percent). The financial rate of return FRR was
expected to vary according to the region and the farming model from 26 percent to 56 percent.
However at ICR, the ERR and FRR were 43 percent and 48 percent respectively. And
although these values, respectively, represent a marginal increase of 7.5 percent and 6.7
percent over and above the baseline (PAD) values, the project shows excellent overall
economic and financial rate of returnsvii considering that the ERR was almost 4 times, while
the FRR was exactly 4 times higher than the opportunity cost of capital. Factors that
probably have contributed to the attractive ERR and FRR were: (i) the choice of subproject
investments by beneficiaries, which indicate a preference for the most profitable activities;
and (ii) the training and advisory activities provided by the project in association with these
activities.

3.       The robustness of these rates of returns through sensitivity analysis was undertaken by
decreasing the output price of major commodities on one hand while increasing the project
life and cost of operation and investment on the other. It was found that the project's
feasibility was sensitive to changes in the output price and increase in project life but much
less influenced by changes of operation and investment costs.




vii
    Internal rates of returns above 10 to 12 percent are typically considered as satisfactory for an investment project, whereas
rates of returns of more than 20 percent are commonly considered as an excellent result.


                                                               27
Main Assumptions of Analysis

4.      The baseline figures were obtained based on some assumptions as shown below:

        The PAD reported economic analysis undertaken for the whole Fadama II project and
        for its various subproject activities. The standard measures of project viability, the Net
        Present Value (NPV) and the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) were computed at
        project appraisal based on assumed best practices in agricultural and non-farm
        enterprises for a 15-year period. For the whole project, the ERR and NPV were
        computed as 40 percent and US$2,374 million respectively assuming an opportunity
        cost of capital of 12 percent.

Other specific assumptions in the PAD were:

        50 percent of the smallholder household was to increase its real income by 20.0
        percent on the average;
        Cereals production was to increase by 30.0 percent, with 20 percent coming from
        increases in productivity;
        In the main enterprise subsectors, investments in crop-livestock production was to
        generate an ERR of 43 percent, agro-processing an ERR of 41 percent; and
        Investments in aquaculture was to generate ERR of 31 percent.

Post-Implementation Economic and Financial Analysis

5.      The economic and financial analysis was conducted for the completion of the project
on the same basis as at appraisal. The analysis included the quantifiable benefits derived
through the substantial improvements in productivity and value-added output resulting from
the investments in productive infrastructure and technologies for the diversified income-
generating activities funded by the project. The results were generated from data collected
from the project at the end of its life. Some of the analyses carried out include the Gross
Margin (GM), Benefit/Cost Ratio (BCR), and Internal Rate of Returns (IRR) for some
enterprises. The table below presents the summary results as are applicable to the various
enterprises at ICR.




                                               28
Annex 3, Table 2: Basic indicators of measures of project worth

                    Enterprise              B/C      IRR (%)
                    Maize                   1.4      60
                    Rice                    1.3      62
                    Tomatoes                2.7      70
                    Vegetable               1.8      55
                    Pepper                  1.8      68
                    Okro                    1.5      58
                    Garden egg              2.2      52
                    Sugar cane              1.6      61
                    Onions                  2.2      70
                    Sweet potatoes          3.2      68
                    Cattle fattening        1.6      64
                    Sheep fattening         0.5      55
                    Goat fattening          0.5      52
                    Poultry                 0.5      50
                    Fishery                 1.1      73
                    Sheep production        0.5      52
                    Goat production         0.5      55
                    Feed mill               2.2      49
                    Pineapple orchard       4.3      105
                    Yam milling             2.2      52
                    Maize milling           2.8      70
                    Cassava milling         2.4      70
                    Bakery                  0.5      69
                    Snailry                 0.3      29
                    Cold store              2.8      71
                    Oil palm                0.3      24

6.      The Benefit-Cost ratio for enterprises revealed that it was highest for sweet potatoes
(3.2) and lowest for all the conventional livestock (cattle, goat, sheep and poultry) at 0.5.
Following the BCR of sweet potatoes were those of tomatoes (2.7), garden egg (2.2), pepper
and vegetable (1.8), Okro (1.5), rice (1.3) and fish (1.1). The BCR of all the enterprises
showed that they are profitable except those of conventional livestock where the BCR was
less than 1, indicating that for every naira expended, 0.5 naira is obtained as benefits.


7.     The IRR values for the enterprises showed that they have very high values far and
above the 12 percent cost of capital. The maximum IRR was obtained in pineapple orchard
(105 percent) and lowest in oil palm (24 percent). Others include fishery (73 percent), cold
store (71 percent), cassava milling (70 percent), maize milling (70 percent), bakery (69


                                             29
percent), yam milling (52 percent), poultry (50 percent), feed mill (49 percent), piggery (49
percent), and Snailry (29 percent).

8.      Aquaculture and Artisanal fisheries were popular in most Fadama II project areas.
Analysis gave NPV of N2.7 billion at 12 percent factor, a discounted Benefit-Cost ratio of 1.1
and IRR of over 61 percent, all showing acceptable projects that are sustainable up to 20 years
of project life.

9.      The Return on Investment for irrigation pumps was estimated at 1.83 (that is, for every
naira invested there was a return of N1.83); grains processing was 1.16 for 2 tons/8-hours
capacity; for groundnut oil extractor 1.74 - all showing acceptable projects. For Fadama roads,
IRR = 56% and NPV = 240 million, that is, the Benefit/Cost ratio and return on capital after
25 years shows that the subproject is economically efficient, hence the beneficiaries are
expected to make enough profit to justify their investment.




                                              30
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Sidi C. Jammeh              Senior Economist                AFTAR       TTL- Lending
Luce Tran                   Operations Analyst              AFTS4    Team Member
Aziz Bouzaher               Lead Environmental Specialist   AFTS1    Team Member
Abigael Bunmi Ipinlaiye     Temporary                       AFCW2 Team Member
                            Sr Financial Management
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola                                   AFTFM Team Member
                            Specialist
Edward Olowo-Okere          Lead Fin Mgt Specialist         AFTFM Team Member
Christophe Crepin           GEF Program Manager             AFTS4    Team Member
Africa Eshogba Olojoba      Sr Environmental Spec.          AFTEN Team Member
Azra Sultana Lodi           Senior Program Assistant        AFTAR Team Member
Bayo Awosemusi              Lead Procurement Specialist     AFTPC Team Member
Mary Asanato                Procurement Analyst             AFTPC Team Member
Chukwudi H. Okafor          Senior Social Development Spec  AFTCS Team Member
Esther Usman Walabai        Sr. Agriculturist              AFTS3-HIS Team Member
Sameena Dost                Counsel.                        LEGAF Team Member
Hisham A. Abdo Kahin        Sr. Counsel                     LEGJR    Team Member
John Amedu Eimuhi           Program Assistant               AFCW2 Team Member
Lucas Kolawole Akapa        Senior Operations Officer       AFTAR Team Member
Song Li                     Consultant                      AFTS4    Team Member
Samuel Wariboko Eremie      Sr. Agriculturist              AFTS3-HIS Team Member
Supervision/ICR
Simeon Ehui                  Lead Sector Economist           AFTS3       TTL-Supervision
Abimbola Adubi              Sr. Agricultural Spec.           AFTAR      TTL- ICR
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola   Sr. Financial Management Sp.     AFTFM      Team Member
Obadiah Tohomdet            Sr. Communication Officer        AFREX      Team Member
Amos Abu                    Sr. Environmental Spec.          AFTEN      Team Member
Aisha D.A. Kaga             Team Assistant                   AFCW2      Team Member
Ngozi Blessing Malife       Team Assistant                   AFCW2      Team Member
Azra Sultana Lodi           Senior Program Assistant         AFTAR      Team Member
Bayo Awosemusi              Lead Procurement Specialist      AFTPC      Team Member
Chau-Ching Shen             Senior Finance Officer           LOAFC      Team Member
Chukwudi H. Okafor          Senior Social Development Sp.    AFTCS      Team Member
Esther Usman Walabai        Sr. Agriculturist               AFTS3-HIS   Team Member
Hisham A. Abdo Kahin        Sr. Counsel                      LEGJR      Team Member
John Amedu Eimuhi           Program Assistant                AFCW2      Team Member
Lucas Kolawole Akapa        Senior Operations Officer        AFTAR      Team Member
Modupe Dayo Olorunfemi      Team Assistant                   AFCW2      Team Member

                                            31
Rajiv Sondhi                   Senior Finance Officer             LOAFC Team Member
Samuel Wariboko Eremie         Sr. Agriculturist                 AFTS3-HIS Team Member
Aniceto Bila                   Sr. Operations Officer             AFTAR Team Member
Stanislaw Manikovski           Consultant FAO                     External   Team Member
Noble Nweze                    Consultant                         External   Team Member
Akinrinmola Akinyele           Financial Management Specialist    AFTFM      Team Member
Sambo Ingawa                   Consultant                         External   Team Member
Dayo Phillips                  Consultant                         External   Team Member
Amadou Soumaila                Snr Irrigation Engineer FAO        External   Team member



(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                    travel and consultant costs)
                Lending
            FY 2000                               36.08                        116.11
            FY 2001                               39.1                         143.35
            FY 2002                               60.43                        201.05
            FY 2003                              150.43                        517.29
            FY 2004                               74.47                        245.96
             Total:                              360.51                       1223.76
         Supervision/ICR
             FY 2005                             101.55                        335.25
             FY 2006                             105.41                        294.45
             FY 2007                              70.60                        199.99
             FY 2008                              76.70                        225.09
             FY 2009                              37.05                        135.20
                               Total:            391.31                       1189.98




                                                32
                 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey: Summary of Methods and Results

1.     The Beneficiary Impact Assessment (BIA) of Fadama II was designed to obtain
feedback on the agreed PDO performance indicators. The impact of the project on PAA, RII
and DDAS were also studied since these components contributed to the attainment of the
income objective.

2.      Twelve states participated in Fadama II project and the household data was collected
in each of the states. The households were stratified in each state into participants in Fadama
II project (within participating LGAs), non-participants within participating LGAs and non-
participants outside benefiting LGAs. This allowed the assessment of both direct and indirect
impact of the project.

3.      The total sample size across the three strata was 3,750, but using the propensity score
matching (PSM) method, 1,728 of the households in the sample were comparable for impact
analysis. The combined use of the PSM and the double difference (DD) methods enabled the
attribution of the measured impacts wholly to Fadama II project.  


4.      The key estimator of the measure of impact of Fadama II on the beneficiaries' income
is the so-called average effect of the treatment on the treated (ATT)viii. In addition to income,
the ATT may indeed be computed for any desired project outcome indicator (e.g. value of
productive assets). If income is the reference outcome indicator, then ATT is the difference
between the expected income earned by project participants and their expected income
without participating. Unfortunately, it is not possible to measure the income of beneficiaries
under non-participation in a project. Rather, non-participant households whose characteristics
are comparable to the project participants were selected in both the baseline and impact
evaluation years. The Propensity Score Matching (PSM) was found suitable for selecting
comparable project participants and non-participants. In the BIA study, year 0 was October
2004-September 2005 and Year 1 was October 2005- September 2006. Then, the percentage
net change in income due to project participation is (ATT/Yp0)*100, where Yp0 is the income
of participants in the base year. It is important to stress that this method does not compute
either the traditional the internal rate of return (IRR) or the economic rate of return (ERR),
and the emerging result may not be interpreted as such. Also, this assessment of Fadama II
was done barely one year after implementation start up; so, there was no supporting data
embark on either the computation of either IRR or ERR.




viii
    ATT is defined as the difference between the expected income earned by project beneficiaries while participating in the
project and the expected income they would have received if they had not participated in the project


                                                             33
5.     Crop production was the most important source of income for all strata of households
before and after the Fadama II started. The enterprise contributed more than 46 percent of the
income before and after the Fadama II project for both participants and non-participants. For
the Fadama II beneficiaries, the increase in the contribution of crops to household income
could be due to the acquisition of productive assets such as agro processing equipment that
helped to add value, or irrigation machines that increased productivity. Non-farm activities
contributed the second largest share of household income before and after the project.

6.      The value of the productive assets for individual project participants increased by 49
percent whiles the value for FUGs/FCAs increased by 59.0 percent. This is perhaps explained
by the fact that group ownership of productive assets was officially more supported by the
project than individual ownership. The large increase in the value of productive assets among
the FCAs/FUGs is directly explained by the large cash transfer to the groups, which was
unprecedented but enabled by the CDD approach.

7.     The assets of the poorest class (the vulnerable) increased, on the average, from N482
in 2004/2005 to N470,865 in 2005/2006, while those for the highest class respondents
increased, on the average, from N99,577 in 2004/2005 to N124,724 in 2005/2006. Thus, there
was larger impact of the project on the value of productive assets of participants who were in
the poorest class.

8.      The average household income of Fadama II participants increased by about 60
percent, which is well above the target of 20 percent to be achieved by 50 percent of project
participants at the end of project year 6. About 42 percent of the project participants increased
their income by at least 20 percent in the first project implementation year, which spelt
confidence in what the achievement would be at project completion.

9.      There was significant impact of the rural infrastructure investment among project
participants. Indeed, compared to non-participants, the distance traveled and the travel time to
the nearest market declined significantly among the project participants

10.    The impact of the project on the demand for advisory services was mixed. There was
increase in the demand for post harvest handling technologies. However, there was significant
reduction in the demand for soil fertility management arising from Fadama II project
implementation. Also, the project did not have significant impact on the demand for financial
management and market information.

11.     Fadama II has also contributed to an increase in the stock of social capital, largely
through its institution-building interventions. Program evaluations and field observations have
shown that social capital has expanded on two levels: (i) within the community; and (ii) in the
interface between communities and the local government through the Local Fadama

                                               34
Development Committee (LFDC). With capacity building and access to advisory services,
the FCAs now participate actively in project management, monitoring and evaluation. In all
communities, several committees operate (including management, procurement, monitoring
and evaluation, O&M and environmental screening). A culture of paying counterpart
contributions (through cash, materials or labor) has been developed and the LDP preparation
process has integrated the principles of transparency and inclusion, thereby improving group
cohesion. Fadama II is the first rural development project in Nigeria that has moved resources
directly to the beneficiary-communities to implement their priorities within the context of a
local development plan. Communities have adopted a system of peer pressure and oversight to
ensure integrity of the flow of funds at the community level.

   Annex 5, Table 1 Achievement of target increase in income among Fadama II beneficiaries
Treatment type              % change in real income before and after the project startedix

      ________________________________________
Fadama II beneficiaries                20% and below                                      20-50%            >50%

       ________________________________________
Fadama II beneficiaries                       57.9                                        11.9              30.1
All nonbeneficiaries                          66.2                                        12.6              21.1
Nonbeneficiaries within FII LGAs              65.1                                        15.5              19.4
Nonbeneficiaries outside FII LGAs             67.5                                        9.2               23.2


      Annex 5, Table 2. Sources of income for Fadama II beneficiaries and non beneficiaries
Source             % contribution to total income                    % contribution to total income
                   Before project (Oct. 2004 to Sep. 2005)           after project started (Oct. 2005 to Sept. 2006)
                 FII          Nonbeneficiaries               FII           Nonbeneficiaries
            Beneficiaries    Within FII Outside FII       beneficiaries Within F11        Outside FII
                                    LGAs            LGAs                          LGAs LGAs
Crop production        46.60         53.80          46.90            56.80       56.50       60.20
Non farm               48.50         38.70          43.30            41.10       39.90      39.30
Activities
Livestock          4.90         7.43           9.70                                2.10            3.50         0.05
production
Other activities  0.00          0.13           0.19                                0.00            0.14          0.54
Note: FII = Fadama II; LGA = Local Government Area




ix
   "Before project" is one year before Fadama II started, October 2004 to September 2005, and "After project" is one year
after the project, October 2005 to September 2006.


                                                            35
    Annex 5, Table 3: Value of productive assets before and after Fadama II across agro-ecological
    zones, genders, and asset terciles.
    Treatment type     Value of individually owned assets (Naira) Value of group-owned assets (naira)
                      Beforex      After       ATT        %         Before        After        ATT           %xi
                      project      project                         project        project
    Agro-ecological zones
    Humid forest zone
    Fadama II          72,634      86,552                           83,467        619,889
    Beneficiaries      (160061) (206851)         7,628     10.5    (408,783)       (1287487) 577,722*** 692
    All               75986       74963          (14340)              7,724        3,087        (155678.2)
    nonbeneficiaries (148462) (130112)                               (60698)       (61750)
    Moist savannah zone
    Fadama II         76,640       103,899                             9,810        397,858
    Beneficiaries     (133834) (193368)         61,342* 82.2        (34924)        (631549) 446,230*** 4,549
    All               47,909        43,831        (36419)               5,957       11,943     (103044.1)
    Nonbeneficiaries (96834) (122102)                                 (86649)       (82400)
    Dry savannah zone
    Fadama II         37,060        43,579                             4,6074       68,383
    Beneficiaries     (41595)       (51842)       19,965*** 53.9       (168351)     (353121) 44,307*          96
    All               40,372        36,716         (5644)               4,248          963      (25334)
    Nonbeneficiaries (46050)      (69737)                               (40,717)     (17359)
    Genders
    Women only
    Fadama II         51,572          74,202                             28,651        505,381
    Beneficiaries     (125764)       (160,235)    16,701 32.4          (229,778)    (1125385) 448,254** 1,565
    Nonbeneficiaries 63,531           55,318      (22733)                6,826         6,526     (124700.7)
                        (151330)      (158418)                          (65012)       (82256)
    Men only
    Fadama II         55,064            62,256                           6,5774       260,596
    Beneficiaries     (75064)          (137669)                        (296916)    (738377)
    Nonbeneficiaries 49,812         53,054         41,504** 75.4         5,715     4,181          217,442.8* 331
                    (67,000)       (97857)         (19286)               (62375)   (48739)          **
                                                                                                (49500.26)




x
 "Before project" is one year before Fadama II started, October 2004 to September 2005, and "After project" is one year after the
project started, October 2005 to September 2006.

    xi
       "ATT" and the corresponding "%" refer to the change in productive assets resulting from participation in Fadama II
    compared with the corresponding group of non beneficiaries. Thus, they should not be interpreted as referring to t he change
    in the productive assets of the corresponding control group of non-beneficiaries.

             Significant at the 10 percent level; ** significant at the 5 percent level; *** significant at the 1 percent level

                                                                   36
      Treatment type      Value of individually owned assets (Naira) Value of group-owned assets (naira)
                         Beforexii    After      ATT        %         Before         After       ATT                                %xiii
                         project      project                         project        project
      Asset terciles
      Tercile 1 (the poorest)
      Fadama II         5,228 52,936                                          482              470,865
      Beneficiaries     (47,11) (121364)                                      (2370)           (1072014)         442,471            91,78
                                                      6,682        127.8                                           ***                 0

      Nonbeneficiaries 7,642 47,468           (6,922)               123 (1225)     3,687      (76891)
                        (18753) (111176)                                         (46906)
      Tercile 2
      Fadama II        44,546    44,699                             3,573        213,483
      Beneficiaries    (23,112) (45,656)        27,844*** 62.5 (13619)            (629129) 104,922                                  2,937
      Nonbeneficiaries 51,048 42,397           (6383)            1,460 (8460) 1,924           (39111.7)
                       (24780) (61,513)                                            (18802)
      Tercile 3
      Fadama II        99577 124,724                                236,793          130,155
      Beneficiaries    (52972) (148597)        80,714*** 80.5       (554079)         (436402) 149799                                  63
      Nonbeneficiaries 114,505 95,846          (21,579)             31,447           11755      (60733)
                       (49934)           (148597)                   (146968)         (104818)
      Note: Numbers in parentheses are standard deviations of the corresponding mean.




xii
  "Before project" is one year before Fadama II started, October 2004 to September 2005, and "After project" is one year after
the project started, October 2005 to September 2006.

      xiii
           "ATT" and the corresponding "%" refer to the change in productive assets resulting from participation in Fadama II
      compared with the corresponding group of non beneficiaries. Thus, they should not be interpreted as referring to the change
      in the productive assets of the corresponding control group of non-beneficiaries.

               Significant at the 10 percent level; ** significant at the 5 percent level; *** significant at the 1 percent level

                                                                     37
                   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.      In line with the PAD, all states held various training/workshops with the general
objective of providing support to the capacity building of all stakeholders on the project,
including FCAs. Specifically, the training workshops were organized for the following
stakeholders: FUGs and FCAs, Facilitators, Local Fadama Development Officers, Local
Fadama Development Officers, Project Accountants and Account Supervisors, State Project
Coordinators, and Procurement Officers.

2.      Additionally, at the facilitators, FUG and FCA levels, the workshops focused on
principles of procurement and financial management, participatory community planning,
monitoring and evaluation, budgeting and budget control, conflict management, saving and
credit scheme management, environmental mitigation, natural resource management, store
keeping and management, group formation, roles and responsibilities of FUGs and FCAs in
planning and implementation of subprojects, LFDO screening and appraisal of LDPs.

3.      At the SFDO level, training workshops were focused primarily on financial
management and disbursement procedures, computer use, community based procurement and
financial management, advisory services implementation challenges, orientation workshop for
project accountants, data base management, environment and development.

4.      Although there was no specific data on the impact of training workshops, it seems that
they impacted positively on all categories of stakeholders. At the community level, over 1,470
FCAs and 12,570 FUGs were duly registered. The FCAs prepared environmentally sound and
socially inclusive LDPs. The integrity of FCAs and FUGs members was enhanced.
Furthermore, the workshops improved capacity planning, financial management and
procurement, reduction of conflicts among the resource users, enabled communities to
transparently select service providers.

5.      The borrower's ICR report rated the capacity building as satisfactory since it
strengthened the capacity of facilitators to perform assigned functions, led to social
inclusiveness in project preparation and the gender mainstreaming.




                                             38
         Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Borrower's ICR

The Borrower's ICR was conducted in February 2009. The Borrower's ICR was done early
as most of the funds under the project were already spent at that time, while at the same time
providing an opportunity to generate inputs into the preparation of FADAMA-III.

Capacity Building Component
The component provided support for building the capacity of all stakeholders in the project. A
total of 1,470 FCAs and 12,570 FUGs were registered, while 1,318 LDPs were approved and
1,246 were implemented as at the time of this ICR. Sixty four per cent of all FCAs/FUGs
members were males with 38 percent females. Thus females have been fairly represented. The
performance of this component was, rated as satisfactory, the performance of the
communication highly satisfactory.

Advisory Services Component
The FCAs' entrepreneurial skills were strengthened. A total number of 2,985 ASAs were
executed: 1,039 on crops, 628 on livestock, 462 on agro-processing, 243 on fishery, 343 on
marketing, 274 on vulnerable groups 42 on agro-forestry and 197 on others. The overall
rating of the performance of this component was satisfactory.

Rural Infrastructure Component
At the time of the Borrower's ICR, a total of 2,885 of rural infrastructure sub-projects were
approved, with 73 percent completed and 27% ongoing. The infrastructures have improved
accessibility to remote areas and farms, reduced the cost of transport, and increased
commercial activities and accruing revenue returns. In addition, the project contributed to
significant improvements in access to road infrastructure, through construction and
rehabilitation of access/rural roads. The FCAs programmed 2,674 infrastructure investments
in their LDPs, of which 99 percent were approved. The bulk of these investments went into
construction of over 1,650 km of rural roads, 1,425 of various types of culverts, 4 mini
bridges, 49 small earth dams, 500 market stalls and shops, more than 800 boreholes (85
percent motorized). Evidence from the Beneficiary assessment study showed that the
implementation of this infrastructure component reduced distance and travel time to the
nearest market town and reduced the waiting time and fares for transportation services.
 The overall performance was rated as Highly satisfactory.

Pilot Asset Acquisition Support (PAAS)
A total of 52,629 assets were acquired, 9,508 subprojects approved, 57.4 percent implemented,
36 percent were ongoing at the time of the Borrower's ICR. This component was viewed by
the beneficiaries as most important since it allowed them to own assets and increase income
generation and livelihood activities by as much as 40 to 80 percent. The quality of the
acquired assets was generally high. The probability of cost recovery of these assets was high
and their maintenance capacity was enhanced by numerous trainings given to the beneficiaries.
There is, however, the need for continuous capacity building on maintenance to secure long-
term productivity of the assets. The performance of the component was generally satisfactory.

                                              39
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation Component
The Procurement Manual was designed using the World Bank guidelines for the procurement
of goods. Various amendments were based on the supervision aide memoirs and Mid Term
Review. Assets branding/labeling as well as fixed assets register were properly documented.
The procurement staff were properly trained. The procurement subcomponent's general
performance was Highly satisfactory.

The financial management: almost all states had outstanding unretired advances at the early
stage of the project implementation. However by 2007, all advances had been cleared and
retired. Financial reports were submitted, the internal control measures were adequate though
the internal audit was weak. The payment of counterpart funding was not good enough at the
local government. The rating of the performance of financial management was satisfactory.

Lessons Learned

   -   The CDD was useful in promoting community collective action.
   -   The collection of counterpart funds from States and Local Governments will require
       some institutional legal framework.
   -   Capacity and advisory services should be embedded with other components.
   -   A well executed CDD approach could help in spreading benefits to vulnerable groups.

Recommendations and Future Outlook

   -   Agricultural Engineers should be appointed as desk officers at NFDO and SFDOs.
   -   A study should be commissioned to assess the national economic value and economic
       returns to the subprojects financed by the project.
   -   Advisory services activities should be carried out before or alongside subproject
       implementation.
   -   M&E should be strengthened and appropriate records kept.




                                             40
               Annex 8. List of Federal and State Government Mission Participants

                        Second National FADAMA Development Project
                       Implementation Completion Result Report Mission

1. Dr. Adetunji Oredipe (National Project Coordinator, Fadama II) National Fadama Development
     Officer.
2.   Mr F.K Idefoh ,( Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, Fadama II) National Fadama
     Development Office.
3. . Dr. V.C Agu (Community Development Specialist, Fadama II), National Fadama Development
     Office.
4.   Mr. J.D Alhassan (Procurement Specialist), National Fadama Development Office.
5. . Mr. Tayo Adewunmi (Project Accountant) . National Fadama Development Office.
6. Members of State Executive Council in Ogun, Niger and Adamawa states
7. State Project Coordinators (SPCs) and PIU staff of the Fadama II States.
8. Alhaji Bukar Tijani (National Project Coordinator, Fadama III)National Fadama Coordination
     Office, Abuja.
9. Dr. Bernard Herbert [Snr Operations Specialist,)], National Fadama Coordination Office, Abuja.
10. Mr. Peter Ajibaye [Senior M&E Specialist,], National Fadama Coordination Office, Abuja
11. Dr C.C. Molokwu (M&E Specialist), National Food Reserve Agency
12. Dr. George Imonikhe [M&E Specialist,], National Fadama Coordination Office, Abuja
13. Mrs. R. A. Odetoro [Environmental Specialist, National Fadama Coordination Office, Abuja
14. Dr. T. O. Arokoyo [Community Development Specialist], National Fadama Coordination Office,
     Abuja
15. Mr. S. S. Ajuwon, National Food Reservation Agency, Abuja
16. Mr. E. T. Anyaduba, Federal Department of Agriculture, Federal Ministry of Agric and Water
    Resources, Abuja.
17. Mr. O. D. Ilariogun, (Assistant Director) Federal Ministry of Finance, Abuja
18. Mr.U. A. Akpan, (Principal Planning Officer)Federal Ministryof Finance, Abuja
19. Members of SFDOs in the 12 participating states
20. Mr. O. D. Ilariogun, (Assistant Director)Federal Ministry of Finance, Abuja
21. Mr.U. A. Akpan, (Principal Planning Officer)Federal Ministryof Finance, Abuja
22. Members of SFDOs in the 12 participating states




                                                 41
         Annex 9. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

AfDB acknowledged and noted the achievement of the World Bank funded Fadama II Project
and requested for collaboration in the implementation/supervision of the Fadama projects in
the 6 states where AfDB is having parallel financing of the Fadama Project.




                                            42
                     Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

-   Development Credit Agreement (Second National Fadama Project) between Federal
    Republic of Nigeria and International Development Association, February 17, 2004
-   Fadama 2 at a Glance in Lamurde Local fadam Desk Office, Adamawa State
-   Federal Republic of Nigeria. 2003. Second Fadama Development project (FADAMA
    2): Annexes to the Project Implementation Manual, Project Coordination Unit, Abuja,
    FCT, Nigeria.
-   Federal Republic of Nigeria. 2003. Second National Fadama Development project
    (Fadama 2): Project Implementation manual, Vol. 11, Project Coordination Unit,
    Abuja, Nigeria
-   Federal Republic of Nigeria. 2004. Development Credit Agreement (Second National
    Fadama Development Project) between Federal Republic of Nigeria and International
    Development Association.
-   Implementation Completion Results Report for 12 Fadama States, Nigeria
-   National Fadama Development Office of Projects Coordinating Unit (PCU), Federal
    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Abuja, Nigeria.
-   National Fadama Development Office of Projects. Half Yearly Report: January ­ June,
    2004. Federal Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development, Abuja, Nigeria.
-   National Fadama Development Office. 2007. Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) for
    Second Quarter 2007. Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Abuja,
    Nigeria
-   National Fadama Development Office/PCU. 2005. Annual Report, January ­
    December, 2005. Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Abuja, Nigeria
-   National Fadama Development Office/PCU. 2005. Half Yearly Report, January ­ June,
    2005
-   National Fadama Development Office/PCU. 2006. Annual Report: January ­
    December, 2006
-   National Food Reserve Agency. 2009. Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of
    the World Bank Assisted Second National Fadama Development Project (NFDP-11),
    Federal Ministry of Agriculture and water resources, Abuja
-   Niger State National Fadama Development Hand Book: Poverty Reduction through
    Empowerment
-   Nigeria. 2005. Second National Fadama Development Project Joint FGN/World Bank
    Mission Aide Memoire
-   Nkoya, P, Phillip, D; Mogues, T; Pender, J; Yahaya, M.K.; Adebowale, G.; and Tunji
    Arokoyo. 2008. Impacts of a Pro-Poor Community-Driven Development Project in
    Nigeria, International Food Policy Research Institute, Washington, USA.
-   Ogun State Fadama Development Office. Second Fadama Development Project
    (Fadama 11): Empowering the Community
-   PCU-NFDO. 2007. Nigeria Second National Fadama Development project: Mid Term
    Review; Independent Assessment on Second National Fadama Development Project
    (NFDP-11), Abuja, Nigeria
-   World Bank 2005. Implementation status and results for fully or partially blended
    projects: Nigeria, NG ­ Fadama SIL 2 (FY04)



                                        43
-   World Bank. 2003. Project Appraisal Document for the Second Fadama Development
    Project. AFTS3 Country Department 12, African Regional Office
-   World Bank. 2003. Second National Fadama Development Project joint FGN/World
    Bank pre-appraisal mission Aide Memoire
-   World Bank. 2005. Implementation Status and Results Report, for fully or partially
    blended GEF projects, Nigeria, NG-Fadama SIL 2 (FY04) project.
-   World Bank. 2008. Implementation status and results report for fully or partially
    blended GEF projects, Nigeria, NG ­ Fadama SIL 2 (FY04)
-   World Bank. 2008. Implementation status and results report for fully or partially
    blended GEF projects, Nigeria, NG- Fadama SIL 2 (FY04) project




                                        44
                 Annex 11: Fadama II Implementation in Pictures




Rehabilitation of 5km Road for Toniyan FCA in Erekiti Community Before and After
Fadama II Intervention in Lagos State




Eriti Market before and after Fadama intervention in Ogun State




Earth Dam before and after Fadama intervention in Niger State

                                         45
Borehole and Water Reticulation Facilities at Odogunyan Vegetable Farm Settlement,
Ikorodu, Lagos State




Fadama farmer harvesting maize and woman with farm produce in Adamawa State




Borehole at Sauka Fulani Pastoralist Settlement in Kebbi and Outboard Engine and
fishing gear by Ilubiri Fadama

                                         46
CDD Sensitization Workshop for FCA members and Cross-section of Women Group
during Capacity Building Training in Imo and Bauchi states.




Fadama beneficiaries displaying second season crops produced with irrigation pumps in
Niger State.




                                         47
48
