                                                           97565 September 22, 2010
Nigeria: Second National Fadama Development Project (Fadama II)




 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES AND INCREASING RURAL INCOMES

 Nigeria Fadama II Agricultural Project




Overview
Drawing on International Development Association (IDA) funding and technical assistance
provided through the Fadama (irrigable land) II Project, Nigeria has boosted incomes for over 3
million farm families in 12 Nigerian states by 63 percent from Nigerian ₦106,454 to
₦173,520.02 between 2005 and 2009, through community empowerment, participatory
development planning and support for demand-driven productive investments in farm and non-
farm activities including community infrastructure.


Challenge
“Fadama” is a Hausa name for irrigable land--usually low-
                                                                  More Results
lying plains underlaid by shallow aquifers found along
Nigeria's major river systems. The land is fertile and water is

                                                                  63%
easily accessible, but the Fadamas have also been the
scene of conflict among farmers, fishermen, and pastoralists
who are vying for land, water, and grazing resources. The
Fadama II Project aimed to unlock this potential in a             increase in real income of over
                                                                  1.5 million beneficiaries in 12
sustainable and equitable fashion, thereby contributing to        Nigerian states
reduce rural poverty.


Approach
Fadama II builds on the positive output and income increase       590%
of Fadama I, but reaches out to other non-crop stakeholders       increase in the value of group-
on the Fadama land and also promotes the downstream               owned productive assets
activities of farming. It seeks to empower local communities
and improve the government’s capacity to reach out


                                                                  6,301
specifically to the various stakeholders in the Fadama areas
such as, farmers, fishermen, pastoralists, and poor and
vulnerable groups, including women, unemployed youth,
disabled, and people living with HIV/AIDS. Importantly, the       number of Fadama User Groups
                                                                  (FUGs) with strengthened
strategy represented a shift from public sector domination to     capcity to implement projects
a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach. IDA was            involving approximately 3.4
able to induce a paradigm shift in Nigeria by empowering          million households

local communities to follow a socially inclusive and
participatory process for the preparation and implementation
of their own development plans.                                    Second National Fadama
                                                                   Development Project
The Fadama II Project introduced an innovation in the
formulation of Local Development Plans (LDP), which brings         Fadama WebsiteHealth Sector
all the participating economic interest/resource-user groups       Development Project
together in a socially-inclusive process of collectively
identifying the development priorities of their respective
communities and translating these priorities into investment
activities managed by the communities themselves. This
participatory process resolved conflicts and ensured that
funded subproject activities represented the interest of the group. The activities in the LDPs,
which are funded through a matching grant scheme, include income-generating “community-
level assets,” such as fishing nets, water-pumps and activities like business training, agro-
processing, demand-driven advisory services, and rural infrastructure (roads, irrigation systems,
etc.).


Results
Income-generating activities supported by the Fadama Project have helped communities to
achieve tangible results including:

      Income increase: At project completion in 2009, the real income of 50 percent of over
      3 million beneficiaries in 12 Nigerian states is estimated to have increased by 63
      percent.

      Asset Holding : The project led to a 590 percent and 85 percent increase in the value
      of group-owned and privately-owned productive assets respectively. A total of 73,599
      assets were acquired by 6,301 Fadama User Groups (FUGs) involving about 3.4 million
      households.

      Capacities Strengthened: The capacities of 6,301 FUGs were strengthened to
      implement projects involving approximately 3.4 million households. There was a 20
      percent increase in returns from the use of advisory services and capacity building on
      assets and infrastructure, which contributed to the achievement of the overall project
      objective.

      Conflicts minimized : By December 2009, six of the participating states registered zero
      conflicts, while the remaining six states reported only a few cases of minor conflicts,
      reflecting a reduction of 85 percent compared to the baseline. This reduction was made
      possible through the successful adoption of the LDP planning tool.

      Targeting efficiency: The project successfully targeted womens’ groups (43 percent of
      all groups) with income increases of more than 400 percent compared with the non-
      beneficiary women. The average value of the productive assets of the poorest group
      increased from US$ 90 to about US$ 3,990 through utilization of accrued savings from
      user-charges to acquire more assets.

      Sustainability: Over 50 percent of the economically-active Fadama Community
      Associations (FCAs) are beginning productive undertakings with the assistance of
      conventional sources of funding like commercial banks and other programs.

Bank Contribution

The total project cost of Fadama II was US$125.4 million, with IDA contributing US$100 million
equivalent to support Fadama II operations in 12 states.


Partners
The project inspired the African Development Bank (AfDB) to implement similar projects in six
additional states (US$30.8 million), raising the total number of Nigerian states benefiting from
Fadama II to 18. The AfDB projects incorporate funds from the Global Environment Fund of
US$10 million to support sustainable land use and water management. The project also
leveraged funds from the Government of Japan to support the preparation of the project
(US$800,000), develop social infrastructure (schools, dispensaries) around Fadama
communities to enhance the welfare of the rural people, and support the implementation of the
project with another grant of US$1 million.
Moving Forward
Following the success of Fadama II, the government was strongly committed to the Community
Driven Development approach and requested a follow-on project. Launched in 2009, Fadama
III (IDA US$250 million equivalent) also relies on demand-driven investments and
empowerment of local communities to improve productivity. It is being implemented nationwide
in all 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. Fadama III will scale up on the results of
Fadama II and is specifically focusing on technology improvement, use of information and
communication technology, enabling the fadama groups to leverage collaboration between
project and research and extension systems, and learning exchanges through South-South
Cooperation.


Beneficiaries
"With the coming of Fadama II Project, our group members have progressed; we can now pay
our childrens’ school fees promptly. Our standard of living has improved, because we can now
feed ourselves three times daily and wear better dresses. Our fishpond number has increased
from one to six ponds and with 15 cows, which we bought from the proceeds of fish farming”.
Alhaji Adamu Chidawa Chairman , Fish Folk FUG – 11 members, Masu Kiwon Kifi of Kwamba
Dabara FCA Niger State.
The project supported the group’s prioritized subproject in the LDP with construction of fish
pond and fencing in November 2005 at a cost of N2.0 million and agricultural input support in
February 2007 at cost of N400, 000.00.
“Before the advent of the Fadama II Project, we had only a sewing machine, but with the
coming of the project we now have 10 sewing machines, a designing and a weaving machine
from the proceeds. We gave loans to our 10 members of N3,000.00 each with 1 percent
interest and repayable in four months. We also gave scholarships to two of our members to
study in Niger State Polytechnic Zungeru and Justice Fati Lami Abubakar College of Art and
Islamic Legal Studies Minna. In addition, we have now diversified into rearing of livestock with
3 cows, 5 sheep and 10 goats.”

Mallama Rabi Bello is chairperson of Allovo women group of 33 female members of Gwada
Fadama Community Association in Shiroro LGA. The group is engaged in imparting tailoring
skills to women especially the youth. The Fadama II Project assisted with their prioritized
subproject indicated in the LDP with construction of skill acquisition center and provision of
sewing machines in 2006 at the cost of N500, 000.00 and the group paid the beneficiary
contribution of N50,000.00.
