                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR000082




         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                            ( IBRD-72140 IDA-38540 )

                                        ON A

                 LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION

                                      AND A

              CREDIT ON THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.5 MILLION
                       (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO

                          THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                                       FOR A

             FIRST PROGRAMMATIC BANK AND CORPORATE
                    RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM (BCRP)

                                  January 31, 2007




     Private Sector Development and Finance
     Andean Countries CMU
     Latin America and the Caribbean Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   ( Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2006 )
                         Currency Unit = Bolivianos
                       Bolivianos 1.00 = US$ 0.12026
                            US$ 1.00 = Bolivianos 8.3153


                                 Fiscal Year
                          January 1 - December 31




                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AML/CTF  Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorism Financing
BCB      Central Bank of Bolivia (Banco Central de Bolivia)
BCRP     Bolivia Bank and Corporate Restructuring Program
BTO      Back-to-Office Report
BUN      Banco Unión
CAE      Country Assistance Evaluation
CAF      Andean Finance Corporation
CAR      Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDF      Comprehensive Development Framework
CRF      Corporate Restructuring Fund
DO       Development Objective
DPL      Development Policy Loan
FASF     Financial System Assistance Fund (Fondo de Apoyo al Sistema Financiero)
FATF     Financial Action Task Force
FERE     Special Fund for Economic Reactivation
FRF      Financial Recapitalization Fund
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
HIPIC    Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IADB     Inter-American Development Bank
IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
IFIs     International Finance Institutions
IP       Implementation Performance
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
LOPE     Law of Reorganization of the Executive Branch
LSDP     Letter of Sector Development Policy
MH       Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda)

NAFIBO    National Finance Institution (Nacional Financiera de Bolivia)
NPLs      Non Performing Loans
P&A       Purchase and Assumptions
PDOs      Program Development Objectives
PROFOP    Bank recapitalization program
PRSP      IMF Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD       Private Sector Development
PSR       Project Status Report
ROSC      Report on Standards and Codes
SBA       Stand-By Arrangement
SBEF      Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities
SE        Superintendency of Enterprises
SIGMA     Public Sector Management System
SIREFI    Financial Regulation System (Sistema de Regulación Financiera)
SMEs      Small and Medium Enterprises
SRT       Systemic Restructuring Team
TA        Technical Assistance
UIF       Intelligence Finance Unit (Unidad de Inteligencia Financiera)
VPSF      Vice Ministry of Pensions and Financial Services
VWL       Voluntary Workout Law




                      Vice President: Pamela Cox

                   Country Director: Marcelo Giugale

             Acting Sector Manager: Aquiles Almansi

              Program Team Leader: Yira J. Mascaró

                                                        BOLIVIA
 FIRST PROGRAMMATIC BANK AND CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING
                        PROGRAM ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT



                                                      CONTENTS


1. Basic Information............................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates........................................................................................................................ 1
3. Rating Summary ............................................................................................................. 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ................................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... 2
6. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................ 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................ 13
8. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................. 21
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 31
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 31
11. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 35
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............. 36
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis............................................................................. 37
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) ........................................................................................ 39
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 40
Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .................................................................. 42
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any).......................................... 43
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................... 44
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/ Stakeholders.......................... 46
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 47
Annex 9. Banking Sector Performance............................................................................. 48
MAP.................................................................................................................................. 52

1. Basic Information
                                                                       Bolivia First
                                                                       Programmatic Bank

Country:                 Bolivia                Program Name:          and Corporate
                                                                       Restructuring Program
                                                                       (BCRP) Adjustment
                                                                       Loan/Credit

Program ID:              P082781                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-72140,
                                                                       IDA-38540
ICR Date:                01/31/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR

Lending Instrument:      SAD                    Borrower:              REPUBLIC OF
                                                                       BOLIVIA
Original Total
Commitment:              USD 30.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 10.2M

Implementing Agencies

Vice Ministry of Pensions and Financial Services (VPSF) under the Ministry of Finance (MH)
Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities (SBEF)
National Finance Institution (NAFIBO)
Central Bank of Bolivia (BCB)
Superintendency of Enterprises (SE)

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review: 10/02/2003            Effectiveness:     10/28/2004         10/28/2004
Appraisal:         12/18/2003         Restructuring(s):
Approval:          02/10/2004         Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:           12/31/2004         06/30/2006


3. Rating Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory




                                              1

3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance         Indicators       QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Prob. Program at any
time (Yes/No):                     Yes            Quality at Entry (QEA):          None

Problem Program at any time
(Yes/No):                          Yes            Quality of Supervision (QSA):    None

DO rating before                   Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:           Unsatisfactory


4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Law and justice                                                    10                10
Banking                                                            60                60
Other industry                                                     30                30
                                                            Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Regulation and competition policy                            Secondary          Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization        Primary            Primary
Other financial and private sector development               Primary            Primary
International financial architecture                         Secondary          Secondary


5. Bank Staff
                 Positions                           At ICR                   At Approval
Vice President:                            Pamela Cox                 David de Ferranti
Country Director:                          Marcelo Giugale            Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:                            Aquiles Almansi            Fernando Montes-Negret
Program Team Leader:                       Yira J. Mascaró            Yira J. Mascaró
ICR Team Leader:                           Yira J. Mascaró
ICR Primary Author:                        Mariluz Cortés




                                                 2

6. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal


Macroeconomic Conditions at Appraisal. At Appraisal in late 2003, Bolivia's economy was
being affected by a combination of external shocks and internal vulnerabilities. External shocks
in the late 1990s and early 2000s included the slow down of capital inflows to the region as a
result of the Russian financial crisis; the deterioration of export competitiveness following the
East Asian crisis, devaluations in Brazil, Chile and Argentina; and lower demand resulting from
the Argentinean crisis. These shocks aggravated Bolivia's fiscal and financial weaknesses,
resulting in the deterioration of economic indicators and the slowdown of poverty reduction
efforts. The reforms of the late 1980s had succeeded in stabilizing the economy and bringing
hyperinflation under control, and helped reduce the negative effects of the external shocks in the
late 1990s.

Prior to Appraisal, economic growth had slowed down, with real GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
growth averaging less than 2 percent between 1998 and 2001, and less than 3 percent in both
2002 and 2003, a substantial reduction from the 4.4 percent average in the preceding years.
Domestic demand had contracted and open unemployment and underemployment had risen,
further increasing the already large share of the population working in the informal sector (the
largest in Latin America and the Caribbean). Lower prices for mining products affected exports,
while the Government's coca eradication program and the customs reform reduced commercial
activity based on smuggled goods, and lowered income levels in the informal sector. A sharp
reduction in capital inflows together with the reduction in GDP growth resulted in a sharp and
prolonged contraction in bank credit to the private sector. Repeated episodes of social unrest and
political uncertainty further hindered private investment and sparked bank runs.

Bolivia's efforts to address the negative effects of external shocks were hampered by persistent
fiscal weakness. Monetary policy had succeeded in reducing inflation to single digits, but fiscal
conditions had deteriorated due to worsening pension imbalances, lower tax revenues, and
expansions in non-pension fiscal spending giving in to political and social pressures. As a result,
the stock of non-financial public sector debt (including domestic debt) jumped to 67.9 percent of
GDP in 2002, close to pre-HIPC (Highly Indebted Poor Countries) levels. In line with the
prevailing dollarization of the financial system (which largely emerged during the hyperinflation
years), about 95 percent of the total debt was dollar-denominated and a rising share was on non-
concessional terms. The sudden drop in the flow of private capital inflows had put pressure on
the capital account and the international reserves of the Central Bank of Bolivia (BCB) fell,
particularly damaging in a dollarized economy. Faced with a challenging macroeconomic
environment, the authorities had requested a SBA (Stand-By Agreement) from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), which was signed in April 2003, supporting a program of fiscal
consolidation, strengthening of the banking and corporate sectors, and more efficient social
safety net spending. The Second review of the SBA, in October 2003, shortly before Appraisal,
found that the program was broadly on track.

Social and Political Conditions at Appraisal. Prior to Appraisal, the increasing political
turmoil and social unrest that had forced the resignation of President Sanchez de Lozada had
subsided and Vice President Mesa had assumed the presidency (in October 2003). However,
there were major difficulties in moving forward with macroeconomic reforms because of
political instability and lack of support for these reforms. Political instability was not a new
phenomenon in Bolivia. Deep rooted political and social problems had resulted in low popular


                                                 3

support for previous presidents, including for Sanchez de Lozada. Low public support for
economic reforms had also been a widespread problem for a number of years. This resulted from
discontent with low economic growth and persistent high poverty, deeply fragmented views
across the country, regional divisions, loss of credibility of the political parties, and increasingly
high expectations on the part of labor and indigenous groups. Nevertheless, the expectation
among the International Financial Institutions (IFIs) was that the new administration would be
able to implement some reforms with assistance from the international community, including
complementary reforms in the financial sector to consolidate earlier reforms and help isolate the
financial system from political and social pressures and from the effects of a worsening
corporate sector. In the case of the financial and corporate sectors, the Bank, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IADB), the Andean Finance Corporation (CAF), and the IMF engaged in
consultations to carefully define and assign tasks in supporting the strengthening of the financial
system and bank and corporate restructuring efforts.

Corporate and Banking Sector Background. In the years through 1998, plentiful credit at
home and overvalued currencies in neighboring countries allowed a rapid expansion of domestic
business activity while masking underlying productivity problems (mainly associated with high
costs and deficiencies in management quality and technology). At the same time, banks' own
lending practices and regulatory loan classification and provisioning rules in effect through 1998
fostered undue reliance on fixed (mainly real estate) assets as collateral, often unrelated to the
business in question. With the deterioration of the macroeconomic and financial environment,
corporate sales plummeted, particularly in the import competing and non-tradable sectors,
reducing the ability of the enterprises to service their debt. As problem loans among large
debtors increased, the banks restricted credit to this segment which was once considered a safer
option than small debtors. Banks with large exposures to the corporate sector experienced a
sharp rise in non-performing loans (NPLs). Particularly affected were some banks which during
the boom of the early 1990s had extended loans based on weak credit risk assessments and
procedures. Moreover, because of the high levels of dollar-denominated debt taken by non-dollar
earners, loan portfolio quality and bank solvency became vulnerable to the devaluation in the
bilateral real exchange rate.

Three runs on the banks between 2002 and 2003 had resulted in cumulative loss of 24 percent in
deposits. Banking crises had been a recurrent problem in Bolivia. In total, nine banks had been
intervened and closed over a 15 year period ending in 1999, and five had been sold to foreign
banks, leaving Bolivia with eleven banks, five of them foreign owned. The causes of these
banking crises had been excessive and imprudent credit growth and exorbitant connected
lending, a product of lack of proper governance, management and control systems in the banks;
and failure of the supervisory function. However, the bank runs in 2002 and 2003 had different
causes: they coincided with the pre-electoral periods, and heightened political and social
instability. The runs affected the system in general although some banks (notably not the
weakest) had been more affected than others ­ including strong foreign banks, probably because
of easier access of its more sophisticated clients to fast withdrawals through internet and other
means. The runs between 2002 and 2003 did not cause a systemic problem due to the growing
liquidity ratios kept by the banks as runs became more common, and the rapid provision of
liquidity by the BCB in its function of lender of last resort (LOLR), as well as its strong handling
of monetary policy. However, many banks remained vulnerable and, at Appraisal, banks were
struggling with low profitability and shrinking assets, and there was a heightened risk that runs
could start affecting more the weakest banks bringing about a systemic crisis.

Corporate and Banking Sector Vulnerabilities. The Financial Sector Assessment Program



                                                 4

(FSAP) conducted jointly by the IMF and the Bank at the end of 2002 and beginning of 2003,
identified a number of vulnerabilities in both the corporate and the banking sectors and
recommended an integrated strategy for systemic restructuring, contrary to earlier approaches
that had largely neglected the linkages between both sectors. The diagnosis found that some
large corporations had been able to adjust by de-levering and reducing costs, but operational
restructuring had been insufficient to offset the implosion in their sales and profits. The capacity
of corporations to restructure was being hampered by a host of factors, including: rigidities in
corporate balance sheets (excess of non-productive fixed assets, burdensome debts); deep-seated
operational inefficiencies (outdated technology, shortages in managerial talent); and governance
problems, typical of closed family owned and managed firms. Furthermore, the corporations'
willingness and capacity to restructure was being undermined by expectations of government
bailouts and shortcomings in the legal and institutional framework for corporate bankruptcy and
reorganization (explained below).

The issue of corporate restructuring in Bolivia had become highly political. Politicians
confronted with social pressures and disappointment with low GDP growth had exaggerated the
extent to which corporations could be restructured through new informal voluntary workout
procedures introduced in mid-2003 (the so-called "Hospital de Empresas"--Hospital for
Enterprises). The authorities were giving signals that up to 80 corporations would be saved
through these procedures. This was unrealistic, given international experience and the structure
of the corporate sector in Bolivia. As the Bank project preparation team pointed out to the
authorities, informal workouts could help at most 10 or 15 corporations (particularly the largest)
and others would have to exit the market, which required changes in the insolvency framework.

By Appraisal, the banking system had shrunk significantly, even relative to other segments of the
financial system. The banks' loan portfolios had contracted from about US$4 billion in 1999 to
about US$2.5 billion in February 2003 and deposits from about US$3.5 billion to about US$2.6
billion during the same period, which reflected more the erosion in confidence in the economy
than the weaknesses in the banks, even if those existed.

The ratio of NPLs to total loans had increased rapidly from an average of 5 percent at end-1998
to 20 percent at the end-2002, and exhibited an increasing rate of growth. The ensuing rapid rise
in capital at risk (capital minus provisions) and rising loan loss provisions had drastically eroded
banking system profitability, leading to significant losses in 2000-2001 and virtually zero profits
in 2002. The evolution of the banking sector variables prior and during project preparation is
presented in graphic form in Annex 9: Banking Sector Performance. Although these problems
were not present at formal non-bank financial institutions providing microfinance services, they
were at those of cooperative nature (mutuales) which served mostly low income clients in remote
areas. At Appraisal, five insolvent mutuales were being allowed to operate with capital below the
required capital adequacy ratio (CAR) through official forbearance (with extended deadlines to
increase their CAR to the required levels).

To absorb such high level of losses, in 1999 the Government had relaxed loan classification and
provisioning rules and since 2002 had allowed the nominal restructuring of the non-performing
portfolio under the FERE Program (Special Fund for Economic Reactivation). Three banks had
received substantial Government support in the form of qualified subordinated debt to NAFIBO
(Bolivia National Financing Institution, a second tier development bank of mixed property with
majority shareholding of the state and minority of CAF), under a bank re-capitalization program
(PROFOP). At Appraisal, all banks were reporting CARs in excess of the 10 percent required
level, but there were concerns about several weaker banks whose capital was overstated as a



                                                  5

result of the debt restructuring schemes and the relaxation of prudential norms. A diagnosis of
the banking sector had concluded that there was a duality in the system with a set of banks,
amounting to half of the system, that presented sufficient strength to withstand further solvency
shocks, but the rest could have trouble absorbing major additional stresses, including those
originated from their exposure to corporate failures, which increased the risks of a systemic
crisis.

Legal and Regulatory Framework. At Appraisal, the legal framework for corporate
bankruptcy existed, but had deep weaknesses and had remained virtually unused (explained in
Section 6.4). Corporate restructuring was a new phenomenon which required new legislation as
well as the development of new supporting infrastructure and a more vigorous due diligence
process with respect to corporations undergoing restructuring. There was also the need for fresh
money to properly restructure corporations. The Voluntary Workout Law (VWL) was approved
in mid-2003 to enhance the framework for corporate restructuring, but this was a new law and
had flaws (see Section 6.4). There were also deficiencies in the treatment of repossessed
collateral, weaknesses in the judiciary system, cumbersome enforcement of credit contracts, and
lack of liquid markets for assets.

Conversely, the financial sector legal and regulatory framework was fairly complete. In the
1990s, Bolivia had made crucial reforms that included passage of the General Banking Law in
1993, the Law of the Central Bank in 1995, the Law on Pensions in 1996, the Law on the
Securities Market in 1998, and the Law of Financial Sector Strengthening in 2001, which
improved internal and external governance of financial institutions and created a comprehensive
failure resolution framework. The strengthened regulatory framework and enhanced supervision
of weak banks in 2003 had helped to avoid a deeper financial sector crisis. However, additional
measures were needed to consolidate the reforms, including reverting the relaxation of the
prudential norms that distorted the bank's CAR and addressing some remaining regulatory and
institutional shortcomings which, compounded by political instability, could have hindered the
capability of the authorities to act promptly to avoid bank failures or resolve failed banks and
prevent a banking crisis of systemic dimensions. These were: (i) unclear organizational
arrangements for financial sector regulation and supervision, which could have undermined the
authority of the regulator/supervisor to exercise its control over the financial system and resolve
financial institutions; (ii) lack of budgetary autonomy of the regulator, which could have
prevented it from taking prompt action (quickly and with needed confidentiality) to prevent or
handle bank failures; and (iii) some residual limitations to the implementation of the crisis
management and bank resolution framework of the new Banking Law. By Appraisal, this
situation had not materialized since banks had not challenged the authority of the
Superintendency of Banks (SBEF) in the exercise of its supervisory role. The challenges at
Appraisal were how to prevent the political instability from translating into institutional financial
instability that could affect supervision efforts needed to prevent further runs on the banks that
could result in a systemic crisis, and how to encourage the strengthening of the sector and the
restructuring of banks if needed.

The Government's Bank and Corporate Restructuring Program (BCRP). The diagnostic
work underpinning this operation identified the shortcomings in the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework for the corporate and financial sectors and concluded that there was an
urgent need to move to an integrated strategy for systemic restructuring--one that addressed the
weaknesses of banks and corporations comprehensively and simultaneously. The Government
had endorsed this diagnosis and moved towards a systemic approach that included legal,
regulatory and institutional reforms to re-align incentives and set into motion a process where:



                                                  6

(i) viable banks voluntarily participate in the restructuring of troubled but viable corporations
that make the needed efforts to restore their financial health; (ii) troubled but viable banks
restructure and regain medium-term profitability; and (iii) unviable banks and corporations exit
the system in an orderly manner. Congress had recently approved legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms to improve the processes of bank and corporate restructuring, with more
reforms under way. The Bank and the Government acknowledged that corporate sector reforms
were lagging, and most likely would continue to lag with respect to well advanced banking
reforms, but considered important to connect the problems in both sectors, and that it was better
to have little progress in reforming the corporate sector than no progress at all.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Government's overall BCRP program was ambitious and
comprehensive, and the Bank's programmatic operation was designed to support specific
achievements within this overall program. Bank assistance was justified on several grounds.

    · Support for bank and corporate restructuring was a crucial element of the new CAS
         (Country Assistance Strategy) presented to the Bank Board concurrently with this
         operation (report No. 26838-BO). The CAS, grounded on the country's revised PRSP
         (IMF Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper), had concluded that the stress faced by the
         financial and corporate sectors could result in a deep crisis with extremely negative
         impacts on poverty, and placed financial reforms as essential to preserve macro-financial
         stability and avoid a financial crisis.
    · The Bank had a long history of support for financial sector reforms in Bolivia. Financial
         sector operations during the 1990s included: the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
         (1988-1992, Credit No. 195-BO), the Structural Adjustment Credit (1991-1995, Credit
         No. 2298-BO), and the Financial Markets and Pension Reform Technical Assistance
         Credit (1996-1998, Credit No. 2789-BO). These operations had helped strengthen
         financial regulation and supervision as well as pension system reform.
    · In more recent years, the Bank had continued providing advice on financial sector issues
         through the FSAP, the Insolvency ROSC (Report on Standards and Codes) and
         discussions with Bolivian policy makers and donors. The Bank's deep knowledge of
         Bolivia's financial sector issues and its experience with financial sector reforms world-
         wide placed the Bank in a particularly strong position to advise Bolivia on the legal and
         institutional reforms needed to prevent financial crises and facilitate bank and corporate
         restructuring.
    · The Government had shown its commitment to the financial and corporate sector
         reforms under its BCRP by agreeing to important upfront actions to consolidate major
         achievements in financial sector reform and enhance its capacity to implement them, and
         was revamping a portion of the Regulatory Technical Assistance (TA) Credit to support
         future actions under the BCRP. Also, the SBA signed with the IMF was broadly on
         track.
    · The proceeds of the operation were to be used to create a fund to facilitate bank
         resolution transactions, which would be needed if the identified weaknesses in a few
         banks deteriorated into irreversible solvency problems, or if runs started to affect more
         the weakest banks which were less able to withstand the liquidity pressure and could,
         therefore, experience accelerated solvency problems.

6.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


Program Development Objectives. The broader policy objective of this programmatic
loan/credit was to support the Government's BCRP aimed at strengthening the financial and


                                                  7

corporate sectors by consolidating and expanding institutional and regulatory reforms, and
encouraging restructuring and reorganization of banks and enterprises. This would reduce the
probability of systemic risks and provide an enabling environment to restart prudent lending,
ultimately boosting economic growth and employment. The PDOs are grouped into the
following areas: (i) Organizational arrangements to manage systemic bank and corporate
restructuring; (ii) Legal clarity on appropriate distribution of regulatory powers; (iii) Bank and
corporate diagnosis; (iv) Prudential strengthening and prompt corrective action; (v) Bank
resolution framework; (vi) Corporate restructuring and bankruptcy; and (vii) Anti-money
laundering.

Loan/Credit Design. The first programmatic BCRP loan/credit was designed to support the
Government's program of legal, regulatory and institutional reforms aimed at strengthening the
banking sector and encouraging the restructuring of banks and corporations. Recognizing that
the BCRP had long-term and complex goals, going beyond the support that could be provided by
a single operation, the strategy adopted was to support the program of reforms within a
programmatic framework involving two sequential operations. The first operation was focused
on bank strengthening and restructuring and some initial steps in corporate restructuring, and the
second was to focus on corporate restructuring, provided there was sufficient progress in
achieving lagging reforms on the latter. The decision to adopt a programmatic framework
benefited from Bank experience with similar operations in Jamaica, Brazil and other countries.
The design of the operation also took into account lessons learned from previous policy based
operations. In particular, lessons from two Bank Restructuring Facility Loans to Mexico (Lns.
P7347-ME and P7452-ME) and Argentina's Bank Reform Loan (Ln. P6570-AR).

The first BCRP operation was designed to have two tranches disbursed upon completion of
agreed actions. It was not designed as a one tranche operation because there were some
immediate actions scheduled to be taken prior to Board presentation that were not going to
materialize until some months after Board presentation, yet there was urgency to disburse the
first tranche as soon as possible due to the possibility of systemic risk. The operation was
originally designed to have a larger first tranche of US$20 million equivalent and a second one
of US$10 million equivalent, reflecting the substantial actions expected to be taken prior to
Board presentation which included ensuring the capitalization of a bank with severe insolvency
problems identified at Appraisal. However, prior to Appraisal a decision was made to shift to a
back-loaded operation, with the first tranche smaller than the second because the authorities
could not ensure the completion on time of the capitalization of one of the two banks Banco
Union (BUN) (see section 8.2). Postponement of the operation was ruled out due to the adoption
of several crucial up-front actions and the continued strong commitment of the Government to
implement pending agreed actions. Most importantly, the proceeds of the Bank loan/credit would
go to a fund designed to facilitate the resolution of non-viable banks, and it was urgent to have
the fund available as soon as possible in case bank failures occurred or worse if a systemic crisis
materialized. The first tranche (even if smaller than originally envisioned) was deemed sufficient
to facilitate the resolution of a significant portion of the banking system, if it were necessary.

The rationale for focusing the first loan/credit on banking sector reforms was that the
Government had already completed important actions in this area, but complementary reforms
were needed to further strengthen the banks and enhance the capability of the authorities to deal
with bank failures and avoid a systemic crisis. Progress on corporate restructuring had proved
harder to achieve in the short-term and, therefore, the corporate sector restructuring measures
included in the first operation were modest, largely focusing on understanding the interlinkages
between banks and corporations, particularly the exposures of banks to the failure of large
corporations. This understanding would provide guidance to enhance the corporate restructuring



                                                    8

processes that could take place, and ensure that funding to support restructuring corporations was
utilized following well designed standards. Actions on corporate restructuring were included also
with the intention of keeping a dialogue on the technical aspects with the authorities. The hope
was that TA efforts by the Bank and the other IFIs would help prepare the ground for more far
reaching reforms at a later stage, which could eventually be supported by a second loan/credit.
At the same time, the Bank's ongoing Regulatory TA would complement assistance in this area
being provided by IADB and CAF.

The second BCRP operation would also have two tranches with emphasis on reforms to support
corporate restructuring if there was sufficient progress in implementing indicative actions
concerning corporate restructuring and bankruptcy. Agreed triggers for processing a second
loan/credit included progress on the broad reform effort for corporate restructuring, but also
actions related to financial sector strengthening that involved legal changes and other actions
deemed important but infeasible to materialize in the environment of social and political turmoil
in which the first operation was taking place, including the lack of Executive convincing power
to enable approval of legal changes by Congress.

Key Indicators. Several key indicators were designed to ascertain periodically whether the
PDOs of the BCRP loan/credit were being met. These indicators (described in Annex 1) were
related but went beyond the Government's compliance with tranche release conditions, and
indicated the extent to which the policy reforms were having the anticipated effect of
strengthening banks and corporations and increasing bank credit.


6.3 Revised Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators (if applicable, as
approved by original approving authority) and Reasons/Justification


The Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.

6.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)


The First Programmatic BRCP operation supported a number of legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms needed to consolidate previous reforms, prevent a systemic banking crisis,
and facilitate bank and corporate restructuring. The main policy areas supported by this
operation are described below.

Organizational Arrangements to Manage Systemic Restructuring. The Bank and the
Government authorities agreed on the need to strengthen coordination among Government
agencies to implement a complex process of systemic bank and corporate restructuring. The
Systemic Restructuring Team (SRT) was established by Ministerial Resolution in May 2003,
prior to Board presentation, headed by the Minister of Finance, and composed of the President of
the BCB, the Superintendent of Banks, the Superintendent of Enterprises, and the Vice Minister
of Financial Services. These were the same participants of a regular "Macro Group" that met
every week to discuss monetary policies. The idea was to give formal responsibilities to those
involved in joint processes of decision making about possible systemic crisis, as it was deemed
crucial to have close coordination and clarity of roles to enable the handling of such crisis. The
role of the SRT was to take strategic and tactical decisions regarding the Government's BCRP
(e.g., on the appropriate use of public funds, the timing and sequence of major actions, the
choice among alternate plans, etc.), without micro-managing the process. In making decisions to
handle bank failures and required reforms, the SRT was committed to adhere to guiding
principles aimed, inter alia, at preventing the use of public resources in a way that resulted in the


                                                  9

direct or indirect bailout of bank's shareholders, limiting their use to undercapitalized but viable
banks, and safeguarding the accountability and transparency in the use of public funds.

Legal Clarity on the Appropriate Distribution of Regulatory Powers. The legislation that
allocates financial sector regulatory powers had been unstable over the years. Since the
creation of SBEF in 1987, the powers to regulate the financial system had shifted among
institutions at least four times, although bank inspection powers have been continuously
assigned to SBEF. The organizational arrangements for prudential oversight had also
evolved, as new regulatory, coordinating, and appeal institutions were created but lasted only a
few years before being abolished. Although SBEF had continued to exercise its powers and the
banks were complying with prudential requirements, the concern was that if SBEF needed to
impose stricter solvency and other prudential measures on weaker banks, these could question its
legal authority. In addition, the application of a new public sector budget management system
(SIGMA) had significantly hampered SBEF's access to and use of budgetary funds, reducing its
capacity to act promptly and with the required ex-ante confidentiality if a bank failure emerge
and needed to be resolved.

The legal confusion regarding appropriate distribution of regulatory powers was dispelled by the
Law of Organization of the Executive Branch (Ley de Organización del Poder Ejecutivo- LOPE)
approved in March 2003, prior to Board presentation. This Law and the related decrees
(i) reaffirmed the exclusive authority of the SBEF in the issuance of prudential norms;
(ii) defined the role of the Office of the General Superintendent of the Financial Regulation
System-(SIREFI) to appeal, coordinate and foster best regulatory and supervisory practices; and
(iii) clarified the nature of the interrelations between the Government and the regulatory system.
The Government also addressed remaining operational obstacles to SBEF's budgetary
autonomy.

Bank and Corporate Diagnosis. Prior to Board presentation, the SRT established a technical
team to carry out diagnosis of corporations and their interrelations with banks to asses the extent
of corporate and bank weaknesses and the possibility of systemic implications if a few large
corporations were to fail simultaneously, and help assess the need for additional prudential rules.
They would also evaluate the magnitude of the corporate debts and interconnections with banks,
enable the Government to make informed judgments with respect to corporate restructuring
plans, reduce the time and cost of early corporate restructuring processes, and increase the
likelihood of their success. The Government agreed that the database created in SBEF
integrating available information on corporate debts with banks, which accounted for the largest
share of their total debt, would be updated quarterly and analysed, including inputs from other
creditor institutions (e.g., tax authority, pensions, health ministry) which could be affected by
informal workouts of their debtors. An indicative action prior to a second programmatic loan
was that lessons learned from pilot voluntary restructuring processes had to be documented and
incorporated into analyses.

Prudential Regulations and Prompt Corrective Actions. The 1993 Banking Law had been
upgraded six times with a major enhancement of supervisory tools and the addition of prompt
corrective action clauses and a bank resolution mechanism in December 2001. Prompt corrective
action had been undermined by the relaxation of prudential norms that could have led to
overestimation of asset values (and hence of bank capital) which, in turn, could effectively delay
the activation of prompt correction triggers, augmenting the costs of bank resolutions, if
required. There was also lack of clarity on the precise application of one of the triggers specified
in the law for prompt corrective action and important regulatory lacunae regarding non-credit



                                                   10

risk management. The Bank and the authorities agreed that while strengthening loan
classification and provisioning rules was not feasible at an early stage, these rules should be
improved as soon as possible (these rules were later improved as explained in section 8.2). The
authorities made the commitment not to worsen current rules or to resort to previous programs of
state support, and to improve rules for loan classification and provisioning of restructured loans
in the meantime, while monitoring closely the portfolios that had been "misclassified" as a result
of earlier restructuring programs such as FERE. Prior to Board presentation, the SBEF issued
the following rules:

     · Rules for loan classification and provisioning of restructured loans. Rules to ensure
         adequate prudential treatment of restructured loans were issued in November 2003,
         based on principles discussed with Bank and IMF technical teams, taking into account
         the weaknesses in the legal framework for corporate restructuring and findings from the
         bank and corporate diagnoses.
     · Minimum rules for the internal audit and the internal control systems of banks. Rules,
         issued in July 2003, aimed at ensuring that prudential concerns are addressed and that
         any new lending does not hamper the banks' financial strength.
     · Norms to clarify the precise application of some triggers for prompt corrective action
         regime. Rules and procedures were issued in May 2003 for the application of Articles
         112-115 of the Banking Law to make all triggers to implement prompt corrective actions
         ("regularization plans") fully operational.

Indicative actions prior to a second programmatic loan, aimed at further strengthening prudential
regulation included: (i) SBEF to have issued prudential regulation upgrading consolidated
supervision and prepared draft regulations to make loan classification more consistent with
international standards; (ii) SBEF to have taken irrevocable actions to ensure full capitalization
of financial institutions following agreed upon standards; and (iii) submission to Congress of a
modification to the Banking Law, clarifying bank intervention triggers based on the ratio of
losses to primary capital. Indicative actions (i) and (iii) were met under this operation
(see section 8.2).

Bank Resolution Framework. The Banking Law provides the legal framework for SBEF to
intervene banks that failed to regain viability under a regularization program and carry out
purchase and acquisition (P&A) operations. However, some additional measures were needed to
fully implement it. Prior to Board presentation, in April 30, 2003, SBEF approved the Operating
Manual and Procedures for application of Article 120 of the Banking Law on bank resolution
transactions. The Manual incorporated Bank recommendations on the criteria for selecting
potential buyers in a P&A process. One of the main criteria explicitly added was that weak banks
should not be considered eligible to purchase other troubled banks.

To facilitate bank resolution transactions, in the context of low capitalization and over leveraged
enterprises, the Government agreed to create (prior to loan/credit effectiveness) a Bank
Capitalization Fund (Fondo de Capitalización Bancaria - FASF). The FASF was to facilitate:
(i) bank resolution processes by providing financing for viable banks as an incentive to assume
deposits of failed banks backed by performing assets; (ii) bank mergers and/or acquisitions
(subject to SBEF approval), by assisting in a merger process or in an acquisition; and
(iii) corporate restructuring processes by providing financing at attractive rates to correct capital
deficiencies (arising through the process) to weak but viable banks. The latter use of FASF funds
was a specific request from the authorities, but the Bank made clear that, if there was scarcity of
funds, the first and second uses had priority (in that order) over the third use. The Bank's views
were reflected in the Operating Manual of the FASF. The FASF was to be funded with resources


                                                 11

from IFIs (including the proceeds of this loan/credit), the Ministry of Finance (MH), and the
recuperation of the loans and/or sale of instruments acquired in its operations.

Additional actions to strengthen the bank resolution framework included the following
conditions for second tranche disbursement: (i) SBEF to issue a resolution establishing the
eligibility criteria for financial institutions acquiring deposits and assets of financial institutions
undergoing P&A processes; (ii) SBEF to take irrevocable actions to ensure full capitalization or
resolution of selected undercapitalized banks following agreed principles; (iii) FASF to be fully
operational, with principles and procedures that have been made effective, and a Coordination
Unit for its operation created and adequately staffed; and (iv) FASF to issue subordinated debt
(or other type of instrument agreed with the Bank) to financial institutions carrying out bank
resolutions in accordance with its operating principles and procedures. An indicative action prior
to a second programmatic operation was presentation of a law to Congress clarifying the
functions and responsibility of the Financial Recapitalization Fund (FRF) ­ which functions as a
deposit insurance fund, but only to provide funds to cover protected depositors during resolution
processes of insolvent banks. This indicative action was met under this operation (see
section 8.2).

Corporate Restructuring and Bankruptcy. The legal framework for corporate insolvency has
been in place for a long time in Bolivia. The Code of Commerce provides for both liquidation
and reorganization of corporations but it has virtually never been used. Corporate
reorganizations under formal proceedings are severely hindered by the requirement of
unanimous approval of a reorganization plan by privileged creditors. This renders formal
corporate reorganization practically impossible in most cases, since in Bolivia almost all
creditors fall in this category. Corporate insolvency proceedings are avoided because bankrupt
corporations have the presumption of fraud under the Code of Commerce and the judiciary is
perceived as unreliable and with little expertise in corporate matters.

A new Voluntary Workout Law (No. 2495, VWL) was approved in July 2003 which broadened
available mechanisms for corporate restructuring. A difficult compromise process took place to
enable the enactment of this law in a difficult and politically heated environment. As a result, it
exhibited some weaknesses, particularly regarding due process and protection of creditor rights,
which the Government was committed to resolve. To enable the workings of the VWL, the
Government decided to create a Superintendency of Enterprises (SE), which was formalized in
October 2003, and assigned a budget. The regulations governing SE's operations were issued at
end-September 2003. The Bank team advised the Government about the mixed experience with
similar institutions in the region, which resulted in a more focused role for the newly created SE.

Additional measures before second tranche disbursement included: (i) appointment of the SE
Superintendent; (ii) the SRT to identify three to five corporations suitable to potentially initiate
restructuring processes and organize workshops with interested corporations and creditors to
promote corporate restructuring; and (iii) Decree issued for the creation of a Corporate
Restructuring Fund (CRF) to provide fresh money to eligible corporations undergoing
restructuring processes (since banks were not going to be able to provide fresh funds to
corporations early on). An indicative action prior to a second programmatic operation was that
CRF's operation had been satisfactorily assessed by Bank staff and that the pilot voluntary
corporate restructuring processes be completed. Other indicative actions included: (i) additional
regulations of the VWL issued to address needed clarifications regarding due process and
priority claims; (ii) legislation presented to Congress to amend the bankruptcy regime; and
(iii) legislation drafted to address deficiencies in the legal framework for creditor rights, secured




                                                   12

lending, and corporate governance.

Anti-money Laundering. This component was included as part of the Bank's corporate priorities,
particularly for adjustment loans. Bolivia's AML legislation fulfilled most of the 40-FATF
(Financial Action Task Force) recommendations for AML, but left out some activities such as
foreign exchange houses and money remitters. Also, the Financial Intelligence Unit (UIF), in
operation since 1999, was not able to carry out on-site inspections. The Government had
incorporated FSAP recommendations for AML/CTF and since January 2003, SBEF had initiated
an on-site program aimed at assessing compliance of financial institutions with the applicable
rules. As a result, banks were being requested to enhance their AML/CTF systems. A second
tranche condition was that a draft law be submitted to Congress adopting the 40+8 FATF
recommendations, incorporating new legally punishable offences, toughening penalties,
improving extradition provisions, enlarging the catalogue of financial and non-financial
institutions abiding by the regime, and enhancing the UIF.

6.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)


The policy areas supported by this operation were not revised.

6.6 Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements
and schedule, and funding allocations)


There were no significant changes in design.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes


7.1 Program Performance
 Number
     of     Two as originally designed
tranches:
                              Expected       Actual
 Tranche      Amount:          Release      Release        Release     Floating Restructured
                                Date:        Date:
      1     10,000,000.00     07/31/2004   12/17/2004
      2     20,000,000.00     06/09/2006                 Cancellation


                            Tranche Release Binding Conditions
Tranche       Condition                     Text of Condition                     Status:
                            Organizational arrangements to manage systemic
                            bank and corporate restructuring: The SRT was
                            established by Ministerial Resolution in May 2003 to
      1            1        provide vision, coordination, and leadership to the     Met
                            systemic restructuring process, incorporating inter-
                            linkages between bank and corporate sector.

      1            2        Legal   clarity  on   appropriate   distribution of     Met


                                                13

        regulatory powers: The LOPE was approved in
        March 2003. Supporting Supreme Decrees were
        issued that: (i) reaffirmed the exclusive authority of
        SBEF in issuing prudential norms; (ii) defined the
        role of the Office of the General Superintendent
        (OGS) of the SIREFI; and (iii) clarified the nature of
        the interrelations between the Government and the
        regulatory system.

        Budgetary procedures were implemented through
        Inter-institutional Agreement of November 2003,
        ensuring SBEF's timely access to its budgetary
        resources within the SIGMA framework, while
        maintaining high standards of transparency and
        accountability.

        Bank and corporate diagnosis: An Interagency
        Technical Team was established by SRT in May 2003
        for   the   diagnosis   of   corporations   and    their

1    3  interrelations with banks. It created a database in
        SBEF in July 2003 (updated in November 2003),             Met

        integrating    available  information    on   corporate
        debtors.

        Prudential strengthening and prompt corrective
        action:

        On     prudential    strengthening:    SBEF      issued:
        (i)   resolution   in   November     2003    for    loan
        classification and provisioning of restructured loans;
        and (ii) regulation in July 2003 on internal auditing
        and control systems.


1    4  On prompt corrective action: (i) SBEF approved
        rules/procedures in April 2003 for the application of     Met

        Art 112 of the Banking Law; (ii) SBEF instructed in
        October 2003 a time-bound capital increase in two
        banks where a shortfall had been determined, and has
        solved the identified capital shortfalls in at least one
        of these banks, following agreed upon principles; and
        (iii) BCB approved Resolution in April 2003 that
        eliminated discrimination of access to LOLR facilities
        for banks under regularization plan.

        Bank resolution framework: SRT approved in
        December 2003 guiding principles for banking system

1    5  restructuring strategy, including no bailout of bank
        shareholders and limiting use of public funds.            Met


        SBEF has (i) issued Resolution in April 2003 on the



                             14

                    Operating Manual and Procedures for application of
                    Art. 120 of the Banking Law (for bank resolution),
                    and (ii) intervened and resolved a non-bank financial
                    institution (mutual) in May 2003 using the recently
                    created legal framework for bank resolution.

                    Corporate restructuring and bankruptcy: SRT
                    started to implement in December 2003 terms of
                    reference for a study to design and implement a plan
                    to    improve      the    framework     for    corporate
                    reorganization and liquidation.

    1            6  Organization of SE was approved by Supreme Decree          Met

                    27203 in October 2003. The SE was assigned
                    budgetary resources for 2003 and included in the
                    budget for 2004, as per report of the General
                    Department of Budget of the Ministry of Finance.

                    Anti-money laundering: SBEF incorporated in 2003

    1            7  the review of AML/CFT into bank inspection manuals
                    and on-site inspections.                                   Met


At Effectiveness.   Bank Resolution Framework: Decree issued for the
                    creation of FASF to provide capital support for sound
                    financial institutions that acquire the deposits and
                    assets of financial institutions under resolution, and to  Met
                    eligible financial institutions that participate in
                    eligible corporate restructuring processes.

                    Bank and corporate diagnosis: SBEF's database on
                    corporate debtors has been properly updated with
                    quarterly inputs from relevant institutions. (The

    2            1  diagnosis was regularly carried out with bank data--
                    accounting for more than 90 percent of the total debt-    Not Met

                    - but not fully including all other relevant institutions
                    in later updates).

                    Bank resolution framework: SBEF has issued a
                    resolution establishing the eligibility criteria for
    2            2  financial institutions to acquire deposits and assets of   Met
                    financial institutions undergoing P&A processes.

                    SBEF has taken irrevocable actions to ensure full
                    capitalization    or    resolution   of     a   selected
                    undercapitalized bank, as agreed with the Bank,
    2            3  following SRT principles. (The initial capitalization     Not Met
                    of BUN was completed, but the condition was not
                    labeled as met because it was unclear if further
                    capital needs were going to emerge once the bank



                                          15

                           was sold to the private sector as expected, because of
                           the weaknesses that remained in the bank).
                           FASF is fully operational, its operating principles and
                           procedures have been made effective, and a
      2            4       Coordination Unit for its operation has been created           Met
                           and it is adequately staffed.

                           The FASF has issued adequate subordinated debt
                           instruments (or other type of agreed instruments) to
                           selected banks carrying out eligible transactions (i.e.,
                           mergers, acquisitions, resolutions, and corporate

      2            5       restructuring), in accordance with its Operating
                           Principles and Procedures. (No eligible transactions         Not Met

                           took place, except the acquisition of a foreign bank by
                           a large bank, for which the use of scarce public funds
                           was not a priority).

                           Corporate restructuring and bankruptcy: The SE is
                           headed by a duly appointed superintendent and has
      2            6       achieved sufficient operational capacity to carry out          Met
                           its mandate.

                           (a) An adequate number of corporations, satisfactory
                           to the Association and the Bank, have been identified
                           to potentially initiate a restructuring process; and
      2            7       (b) workshops with interested corporations and their           Met
                           creditors to promote corporate restructuring have been
                           carried out.

                           A Decree has been issued mandating the creation of
                           Corporate Restructuring Fund(s) (CRF), to provide
      2            8       fresh money to eligible corporations undergoing                Met
                           restructuring processes.

                           Anti-money laundering: A draft law submitted to
                           Congress for the adoption of the 40+8 FATF
      2            9       Recommendations. (The draft submitted did not meet           Not Met
                           Bank standards).


Comments

All first tranche conditions were met prior to Board presentation in February 2004. The only
effectiveness condition was the creation of the FASF. This fund was created on March 12, 2004,
but effectiveness did not take place until October 2004, due to delays in getting the credit/loan
approved by Congress. The focus of attention of a divided Congress was on more urgent matters,
and the authorities were cautious in exposing this operation to Congress to avoid the risk of it
becoming a political issue. The Government and Congress were at that time facing political and
social turmoil that required their attention, and as a result this project was not addressed. Delays
in effectiveness and in meeting second tranche conditions, coupled with progress on other



                                                 16

actions under the Government's BCRP but not required under this operation, led to agreement to
extend the Closing Date by eighteen months to June 30, 2006.

Five of the nine second tranche conditions for the loan had been met by Closing Date, and
important progress had been made in completing the remaining four. The Bank team had
informed the new authorities of the imminence of the Closing Date and the pending conditions,
but the authorities were facing a difficult political and social context, and could not address the
pending conditions in time to meet Closing Date. Authorities sent two communications to the
Bank: one indicating that some pending conditions would be met in July, and another asking for
an extension of the Closing Date, a waiver for the condition concerning the use of the FASF
funds and the cancellation of the IBRD Loan (but not the IDA Credit) due to fiscal
consideration. However, the Bank made the technical judgment that the late date of the request
(two days before Closing Date) and the difficulties facing authorities indicated that continued
support for the operation was not merited. As a result, the Bank cancelled the second tranche.
Three indicative actions expected before the preparation of a second programmatic operation
were met during project implementation. Section 8.2 provides details about compliance with all
the conditions and the indicative actions for the preparation of a second BCRP operation.

7.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation


Adequacy of Government's commitment. The authorities involved in the early preparation of
the operation were highly committed to the overall BCRP reforms and the actions supported by
the first programmatic loan/credit. The administration that took office shortly before pre-
appraisal (November 2003), was also committed to the BCRP objectives. The newly appointed
authorities were deeply concerned with the possibility of a banking crisis and insisted on the
need to accelerate approval of the operation despite the political and economic problems they
were facing. The upfront policy measures implemented prior to Board presentation are
indications of strong commitment on the part of the authorities at the beginning of the operation.
Evidence that the authorities remained to a large extent committed to the overall BCRP reforms
through the implementation period is that they undertook financial sector reforms that went
beyond those agreed under the operation, although they were part of the overall BCRP program.
The commitment to undertake some of the financial and corporate restructuring actions
decreased over time due to the following reasons:

    (i)   Few corporations had entered the restructuring program despite increasing pressure
          from the public generated by political promises. This outcome had been expected at
          the technical level. Since the shortcomings of the VWL remained largely unsolved,
          only the weakest corporations, with the largest Government exposures, were motivated
          to enter the restructuring process, induced by the fact that the haircut approved by the
          largest debtors, the banks, was automatically applied to their debts to the Government.
          At the same time, helped partly by an improving economy, banks had been able to
          restructure on their own their viable corporate clients, outside of the formal
          restructuring framework.

    (ii)  Increasing political instability had changed priorities. The social and political turmoil
          that had led to the resignation of President Gonzalez de Lozada had resulted in
          increasing political instability under the administrations of Presidents Mesa and
          Rodriguez Velzé. This situation focused the authorities' attention on other challenges
          and generated rapid turnover of top Government officials, which undermined their
          effectiveness in implementing some of the agreed reforms in the corporate sector.



                                                 17

           Shifts in responsibilities and changes of priorities affected some BCRP measures such
           as the timing or decision to sell BUN.

     (iii) Economic improvement had reduced the risk of bank runs. Despite the uncertainties
           created by the political and social events of the last few years, the economy had
           continued to improve largely due to favorable external conditions. The economic
           improvement had reduced the risk of systemic runs that were largely politically and
           socially motivated, and led to the stabilization, albeit at lower levels, of total deposits
           in the financial sector.

    (iv) Measures to strengthen the banking sector were producing results. The danger of a
           systemic crisis emerging from runs on weaker banks or from the failure of a relatively
           large bank that could spread to other banks had receded as a result of measures to
           strengthen the banks. These include strong capitalization efforts in at least two banks;
           the implementation of tighter prudential regulations and supervision that had led to a
           change in management in a large bank, and better banking practices overall; coupled
           with the effectiveness in the implementation of the bank resolution framework to the
           resolution of five insolvent mutuales, and the availability of funds to implement further
           resolutions as needed. Details on macroeconomic and banking sector recovery are
           provided with the discussion on relevance of macro-financial risks in this section.

The new administration that took over in January 2006 had more imminent objectives with
respect to the financial and corporate sectors. While the health and stability of the banking sector
remains important and the legal and regulatory reforms have not been reversed, the focus has
shifted from financial sector stability to issues of access to credit by SMEs and rural producers.
Corporate restructuring is not in the policy agenda of the new authorities. Their priority is to
address problems that affect smaller enterprises such as high levels of informality, low
productivity and lack of access to information and other services.

Soundness of the background analysis supporting the operation. The policy reforms
supported by this operation are based on the recommendations of the FSAP conducted jointly by
the IMF and the Bank at the end of 2002 and the beginning of 2003, and the Insolvency ROSC
conducted at that time. The Bank preparation team was composed of a number of financial and
corporate sector specialists (including the Senior Regional Financial Advisor), who were able to
deepen the FSAP analysis in specific areas. The background analysis supporting this operation
was accurate in its assessment of the weaknesses of the banking and corporate sectors, its
identification of the constraints in the legal, regulatory and institutional framework, and its
recommendation of an integrated strategy for systemic restructuring.

Assessment of the operation's design. The operation was well designed not only in terms of the
policy actions that it supported, but also for the sequencing of the reforms and the use of the
loan/credit proceeds to capitalize the FASF. The decision to design this operation as two
consecutive loans (programmatic approach) was appropriate given the unstable political situation
and the limited implementation capacity of the administration at the time of loan preparation.
However, the operation was perhaps overly ambitious in scope and complexity, for these same
considerations. The decision to concentrate the first programmatic loan on further strengthening
the banking sector regulatory and supervisory framework and the second one on corporate sector
restructuring was realistic in view of the perceived risk of several bank failures at the time of
Appraisal, and the slow advances made on legal and policy reforms to underpin the corporate
sector restructuring aspects. The decision to use the proceeds from the Bank loan/credit to
capitalize the FASF and not for general budgetary support provided a clear signal that the



                                                 18

authorities would be able to support bank resolutions if needed, which was important given the
risk of systemic crisis during preparation of the operation.

The strategy to include some actions on corporate restructuring in the first operation to ensure at
least some progress in this area, while providing technical assistance through supervision and
maintaining an active policy dialogue on this issue with the authorities, has paid dividends. The
Bank team remained largely skeptical that these reforms would materialize in the short term, but
some improvements in corporate restructuring did materialize, and each new technical team in
the Government (and there were several of them) has been interested in discussing issues
regarding improving the framework for corporate restructuring and bankruptcy with Bank teams.
The possible second loan was made contingent on major progress on corporate restructuring that
was perceived as imminent by the authorities at the time. The indicative actions prior to a
second BCRP operation were well chosen to demonstrate the commitment of the authorities to
these reforms.

The decision to disburse the first loan in two tranches was correct to give the authorities more
time to complete some of the reforms initiated prior to Board presentation (in particular to
finalize the recapitalization of BUN), while giving credit and support to the major actions
already implemented prior to Board presentation. Delaying Board presentation until all actions
were completed, which would have resulted in a one tranche DPL, would have been too risky
given the exposure to a possible systemic crisis in the context of widespread and repeated bank
runs and the prevalence of bank weaknesses at the time. Designing a two tranched operation in a
situation of political instability was risky, but provided an effective conduit for maintaining a
policy dialogue with the successive authorities, engaging them in intense technical assistance
through supervision, and ensuring coordination of the overall program with the different sets of
technical and political authorities.

Relevance of the risks identified at Appraisal and effectiveness of mitigation measures. The
risks associated with this operation were identified at Appraisal and are clearly spelled out in the
Program Document (PD). They are all relevant, although some of these risks have materialized
to a greater extent than others. The three main risks mentioned in the PD are the following:

Macro-financial risks: The PD points out that the weaknesses that prevailed in the financial
sector could have led to a systemic run on deposits, and that the Government had limited
capacity to deal with a banking crisis due to the widening fiscal disequilibria and rising external
debt. A mitigating factor for the latter was that the operation would take place in the context of a
recently approved SBA. While this risk was relevant at the time of Appraisal, Bolivia's gloomy
growth prospects in the short term did not occur. This was helped by (i) the fact that a systemic
run on the banks did not materialize (although since Appraisal, additional bank runs did take
place), and (ii) the country's macroeconomic performance had gradually improved as a result of
relatively high economic growth. GDP growth has been close to 4 percent since 2004, stimulated
by high world prices for Bolivia's exports of basic raw materials. The overall fiscal deficit
narrowed to 2.3 percent in 2005 and became a surplus of 4.2 percent of GDP during the first half
of 2006. About 75 percent of this positive fiscal outcome is due to the increased government-
take resulting from the new hydrocarbon policy and increased gas exports.

A systemic banking crisis did not materialize for several reasons. First, the runs on the banks had
been more the result of political and social instability than the banks' weaknesses, and as the
economy improved political and social pressures eased and the repeated runs subsided and
deposits started to recover. Second, the authorities took effective measures to strengthen the



                                                 19

banks. The SBEF required capital increases in two weak banks (identified during Appraisal), and
these were both completed: in one case by the owners of the bank, and in the other, BUN, by the
conversion of PROFOP's subordinated debt into capital. Intensive supervision at other banks
resulted in improved banking practices, including change in top management in one large bank
and enhanced classification and provisioning of loans. There was also some consolidation of the
banking system through a merger and the sale of a foreign bank to a local one. This sale was the
result of a corporate decision to leave the region, not only Bolivia.

Political and social uncertainty: The PD was correct in identifying that political uncertainty and
social unrest, evident at the time of Appraisal, could hamper restructuring efforts and challenge
the Government's program. To fend off such risks, the Government was expected to complete the
bulk of the reform actions prior to Board presentation and communicate through strong public
statements the importance of particular reforms and the principles behind them, in order to
mobilize public opinion in support of the reforms. This risk did materialize. Political and social
unrest led to the resignation of two presidents and the election of a new president during the
implementation of the operation. Lack of political stability and low approval rate of the
government led to changes in policy priorities and reduced the possibility of implementing legal
reforms to improve corporate restructuring and bankruptcy. Political instability also led to the
rapid turnover of high officials in the counterpart ministry and the implementing agencies, which
resulted in important delays in some actions supported by this operation. During the
implementation period there were five Ministers of Economic Development and four Ministers
of Finance. However, for most of the time, the main counterpart of this operation was the MH
where new officials were in most cases selected from the same technical teams that were already
in place, which provided some continuity.

Limited implementation capacity: The PD was very much to the point in highlighting that the
weak implementation capacity in Government agencies could impede progress in bank and
corporate restructuring. Mitigating measures were the strong up-front actions and the TA
provided during the preparation of this operation and during implementation through supervision
by the Bank, as explained in Section 10.1 (b), and the other IFIs supporting the reform program:
IMF, IADB and CAF.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


(a) M&E Design. The Policy Matrix effectively operationalized the major aspects of the first
BCRP and the main program outputs associated with the operation. A number of PDOs
indicators were designed to ascertain periodically whether the development objectives of the
BCRP loan/credit were being met. These key indicators are dependant but go beyond the
Government's compliance with tranche release conditions (see Annex 1).

(b) M&E Implementation. The political changes and high staff turnover in the government
agencies associated with this operation did not affect the continuity and fluidity of supervision
efforts. PSRs (Project Status Reports) and ISRs (Implementation Status and Results Reports)
were completed on schedule. Substantive back to office reports were produced by the
supervision missions prior to the introduction of ISRs. During supervisions, the Policy Matrix
and the corresponding sections in the legal agreement functioned as the main de facto M&E tool.
Several supervision missions collected relevant data on banking sector performance to evaluate
the impact of the operation on the sector and reported progress in all the key indicators. In
particular, the July 2004 mission produced an extensive report on the banking sector and its main




                                                 20

challenges. This complemented the outcome indicators in the ISRs.

(c) M&E Utilization. The information and data obtained by supervision missions on compliance
with tranche conditions, political changes that affected implementation, and banking sector
performance, were effectively used by supervision missions and management to make decisions
about the focus of the policy dialogue with the government, the TA efforts required, and the
ratings of the operation. Regarding the financial sector, the operation relied largely on thorough
reports prepared regularly and upon request by the SBEF including details on specific areas
closely related to the completion of actions. These reports were updated with recent data for
every supervision mission (or before, as needed), which resulted in a crucial tool for the analysis
of the sector beyond the achievement of overall actions.

7.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if applicable)


As designed, a second programmatic loan/credit in support of the Government's BCRP would
have been prepared based on satisfactory progress in program implementation and the
accomplishment of a number of agreed indicative actions, particularly those related to the
corporate sector, which did not materialize. Therefore, the anticipated second operation will not
take place. Moreover, the Morales Government has shifted the focus of attention towards
broadening and deepening access to credit, particularly to SMEs and agriculture and has
expressed reservations about corporate restructuring, which it sees as bailouts of Bolivia's
traditional ruling class. The Government has shown interest in further reforms in areas related to
bankruptcy and strengthening of creditors' rights. Reforms in these areas, which were part of the
policy dialogue under this operation, are being considered under the new Productivity and Job
Creation investment operation being prepared to support competitiveness, business environment,
and access to credit. Under the ISN (Interim Strategy Note) for Bolivia, approved by the Board
on November 21, 2006, the Bank decided not to include any DPLs (Development Policy Loans)
for this short period of coverage. This could eventually change once a new CAS is approved for
the period beyond the ISN.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation


The ultimate development objective of this operation was to address financial sector weaknesses
and prevent a systemic banking crisis through (i) further strengthening the regulatory and
supervisory framework, and (ii) encouraging the restructuring and reorganization of the financial
and corporate sectors. This would provide an enabling environment for prudent lending, boosting
economic growth and employment.

This was and remains a very relevant objective. The critical outcome of a stronger banking
sector has been achieved, compared to the weaknesses prevailing at the time of Board Approval
(see Section 8.2). Restructuring of the banking sector has taken place, and restructuring of the
corporate sector has improved somewhat. Banks report that they have undertaken all the needed
corporate restructurings on their own, while a few cases took place within the VWL framework.
Exposure to bank runs due to bank weaknesses was reduced, while the capacity to handle
politically driven runs was increased. Moreover, not only the Bolivian authorities have improved
regulatory and supervisory rules and strengthened institutions, but also enhanced their
enforcement capabilities and exercised them extensively. Importantly, the legal and regulatory
reforms and the bank resolution mechanism supported by this operation, including the FASF,


                                               21

will continue to strengthen confidence in the banking sector and reduce the likelihood of a
financial crisis, and enable adequate resolution of banks if isolated problems were to emerge.
These reforms remain effective under the Morales Government.

Taking advantage that financial stability has been largely achieved the current administration has
shifted its attention to increase access to credit by SMEs and rural producers, while preserving
financial sector reforms already in place. This is in line with the approach taken by the Bank
supervisory team since March-2005, which started to focus the intensive TA that accompanied
supervision missions and ad-hoc activities (per the authorities' request) on themes related to
access to credit, while ensuring that adequate attention was given to preserving the stability of
the system. This new approach, implemented well before the new Government was elected, has
provided continuity in the Bank's current financial sector dialogue with the Government
(including during the preparation of policy notes). Despite the shift in Government's priorities,
there is more to be done to make the corporate sector more efficient and able to generate
employment and wealth. Some of the legal and institutional constraints to corporate restructuring
and insolvency that were not addressed under this operation may be addressed under the new
investment operation under preparation.

8.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives


Strengthening of the Banking Sector: Satisfactory Performance

At the time of closing this operation the financial system had dramatically improved with respect
to the situation described in the FSAP and the last Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE) for
Bolivia, carried out by IEG (the Bank's Independent Evaluation Group) and completed in mid-
2005, covering the period between 1999-March 2004. The CAE reported on the progress made
with regard to the Bank's specific institutional development objectives in the financial sector in
Bolivia, but was fairly critical of the Bank's performance on the grounds that the reforms had
failed to prevent the deterioration of the banks. The CAE reported on the deteriorating bank
performance with frequent bank runs; declining total assets (and credit); low (negative)
profitability; insufficient capital and unwillingness of bank owners to increase capital; large and
increasing NPL portfolios and capital at risk; and insufficient business for the number of banks
in the system. Since then, banks have strengthened their capital (including major capitalizations
at the two weak banks identified during Appraisal), and their management, and performance has
improved in term of liquidity, solvency and profitability. Also, the system has started
consolidating with the acquisition of a large (foreign) bank by another large bank, reflecting a
willingness of local owners to invest in the system, and two banks have merged. Also, there is no
longer regulatory forbearance in the system, as the five insolvent mutuales have been resolved.
It could be argued that the banks in Bolivia were able to survive the severe economic crises and
repeated runs they faced due to the earlier banking sector reforms, and that reforms supported by
the BCRP helped to strengthen the banks despite the recent political and social turmoil. The
recovery of Bolivia's banks, however, is still incipient and problems of access to credit are only
starting be addressed.

Bank deposits reversed their decreasing trend in mid-2004 and reached US$2.7 billion in June
2006, although still below their 2001 level. Bank credit started a mild recovery in 2005 but
mainly focused on mortgage lending, with total credit still well below the 1999 level. The quality
of the banks' portfolios has improved considerably as a result of strengthened bank supervision
and regulation. The level of NPLs as a percentage of total gross loans decreased from 20 percent
at the end of 2002 to about 13.5 percent in the first half of 2006, and provisioning has
dramatically improved (including after strengthening of loan provisioning norms since 2004).


                                                 22

This still large ratio reflects in part the remaining effects of the (artificially) restructured
portfolio under the FERE and PROFOP programs. The total portfolio excluding reprogrammed
loans has lower NPL ratios. Banks have also improved in term of solvency and profitability. At
the end of the first half of 2006 all banks had a CAR above 11 percent even though loan
classification and provisioning rules had been strengthened. After significant losses in 2000-
2001 and zero profits in the following years, bank profitability started recovering in the second
half of 2005. As of June 2006, the banks generated aggregate returns of US$19.7 million, which
resulted in a return on assets of 1.0 percent and a return on equity of 9.6 percent, the highest
ratios in five years. The evolution of the banking sector variables during the program preparation
and implementation period (up to mid-2005) is presented in graphic form in Annex 9: Banking
Sector Performance.

Organizational Arrangements to Manage Systemic Restructuring: Moderately Satisfactory
Performance

The SRT played a useful role in formalizing and coordinating the process of decision making
with respect to BCRP actions. It adopted sound guiding principles for implementation of the
systemic BCRP that met Bank and IMF criteria. These principles were important to prevent the
bailout of bank owners in capitalization or resolution processes. These principles were applied in
the capitalization of BUN where a pre-existing contract (PROFOP) calling for the Government
to increase its participation could have led to the bailout of the owners, given Bolivia's history of
bailouts of banks and corporations. The SRT took several strategic and tactical decisions with
respect to BRCP and developed a clear strategy to enable the capitalization of banks, improve
supervision, enhance regulation, resolve the five weak mutuales, and improve the regulatory
framework for corporate restructuring. SRT also took leadership in requesting the bank and
corporate diagnosis. However, it did not fully implement needed legal changes for corporate
restructuring, addressing recognized weaknesses instead through the more common route in
Bolivia of regulatory changes through decrees (partly because of lack of effectiveness of the
Senate during unstable political times). Because of this shortcoming the condition is rated as
moderately satisfactory. As the economy improved and the risks of a systemic crisis subsided,
the SRT focus has moved away from banking sector and corporate restructuring issues, although
it continues to be interested in improvements in the legal and regulatory framework for corporate
restructuring and bankruptcy, and in keeping banking sector stability to achieve financial depth
and avoid large costs to the economy. For the last year, the SRT has not met as systemic risks
have subsided, but since its members regularly meet as part of the "Macro Group" to discuss and
coordinate macro and monetary policies, this group discusses BCRP related issues more
specifically, if the need arises.

Legal Clarity on the Appropriate Distribution of Regulatory Powers: Satisfactory
Performance

Actions supported by this operation were important to clarify and strengthen the role of SBEF as
the regulatory authority in the financial sector, which was crucial for it to be able to implement
further reforms. The LOPE approved prior to Board presentation clarified the legal confusion
regarding appropriate distribution of regulatory powers, and reaffirmed SBEF's exclusive
authority in the issuance of prudential norms. Also prior to Board presentation, the Government
addressed operational obstacles to the budgetary autonomy and use of resources by SBEF, and
reaffirmed its commitment to ensuring the preservation of the autonomy of the regulator
regardless of future institutional changes. The current government has maintained the autonomy
of SBEF, even though it has revisited extensively and even closed most other superintendencies.



                                                 23

Bank and Corporate Diagnosis: Moderately Satisfactory Performance

Bank and corporate diagnoses were needed to help the Government make informed judgments
with respect to corporate restructuring plans, particularly those that could require government
financial support. The basis for the diagnoses is the database created in SBEF, which integrates
available information on corporate debtors from several sources, including the financial system
(about 95 percent of all debts), obligatory social security and tax authority. The loan condition
was that the information in the database had to be updated and analyzed regularly. Early
diagnoses were carried out with Bank TA support, continuing work started during the FSAP.
The first analysis with data from all sources was carried out during Appraisal and assessed,
among other aspects, the potential effects of failures of large corporations on banks, based on
portfolio concentration. The data was updated until mid-2004, and two diagnostic exercises and
analyses were carried out and the corresponding reports shared with the SRT and the Bank.
These assessments showed that the share of non-bank creditors was relatively minor. Following
a change in Ministers in 2004, requesting the data at the social security and tax authority became
a lower priority, although the data on debt to the banking sector has remained a regular
component of SBEF's analysis. Faced with the imminent closure of the operation, the authorities
stepped up their request for data from non-bank creditors and informed the Bank (letter dated
June 26, 2006 few days before Closing Date) of their intention to update the analysis and have a
report ready by mid-July. No report was submitted to the Bank. The main objective of this action
was largely achieved with the early diagnosis and further diagnosis have lost urgency as the
situation of the banks has improved. Also, as most of the corporate restructurings that took place
under the new legal framework were companies with the largest fiscal exposure, it became less
relevant to have assessments updates with information of public creditors. Nevertheless, this
action was not considered as satisfactorily met because the updated database did not have
information from all the sources required under the operation and further full assessments were
not carried out.

Prudential Regulation and Prompt Corrective Action: Highly Satisfactory Performance

Strengthening of Bank Supervision: Achieved. Although all loan/credit conditionality regarding
bank supervision had been fulfilled prior to Board presentation, there was a commitment by the
authorities to update the rules for classification/provisioning of assets and for consolidated
supervision, bringing them closer to international standards, and reversing the relaxation of
prudential rules made during the crisis. Under the assumption that the banking sector would not
be ready for more stringent rules at the time of the first operation, the updated rules were
considered indicative actions for a second BCRP operation. Nevertheless, in May 2005, a new
set of strengthened prudential rules on classification and provisioning of assets entered into
effect. Also, SBEF had started to focus on risk based supervision with the aim of eventually
adopting Basel II, and had strengthened the prudential framework for unregulated entities. As a
result of the new rules, by mid-2005 banks were required to make US$57 million in additional
provisions. Although SBEF gave the banks one year to make these provisions, most banks made
them well before schedule, reflecting the strong authority of SBEF to enforce regulations and the
improving performance of the banks. Also, between May 2003 and October 2004, SBEF put an
end to the official forbearance granted to five insolvent mutuales through the successful
implementation of P&A operations.

Enhancement of the framework for Prompt Corrective Action:                 Achieved.     Under this
operation the legal framework for prompt corrective action was completed. SBEF issued new
rules to clarify the application of some triggers for prompt corrective action and for classification


                                                 24

and provisioning of restructured loans. In addition, in early 2004 Congress approved regulatory
changes needed to enhance the application of triggers under Art. 112 of the Banking Law, to
clarify bank intervention triggers based on the ratio of losses to primary capital. These changes
were important to ensure SBEF's capacity to require prompt corrective actions in at least one
bank. These legal changes were indicative actions for the preparation of a second programmatic
loan. In making these reforms, the authorities went beyond the conditionality of this loan.

Bank Resolution Framework: Moderately Satisfactory Performance

Making the FASF fully operational and ready to support bank resolution transactions:
Achieved. Bolivia now has a modern bank resolution framework, including the FASF which was
established to facilitate bank resolutions and P&A operations by providing subordinated loans to
good banks that acquire the business unit of a failed or weak bank. The subordinated loan can
help the purchasing bank meet the regulatory capital increased by the acquisition of another
bank's assets. The FASF was created as a trust fund in NAFIBO. Its Board approved Operating
Principles and Procedures to utilize the funds drafted by NAFIBO with advice from the Bank;
and SBEF established eligibility criteria for financial institutions acquiring deposits and assets of
financial institutions undergoing P&A processes. Although the new resolution framework has
not been used to resolve any bank, since none has failed during the implementation of this
operation, SBEF has implemented it to resolve five small mutuales which were officially
insolvent but benefiting from forbearance. FASF funds were requested to facilitate a merger, but
the request was rejected to keep the funds in the FASF available for more important bank
resolutions.

Actions by SBEF to ensure full capitalization or resolution of a selected undercapitalized
bank: Partly     Achieved. This condition was meant to test the Government's commitment to
carry out its BCRP under agreed principles, while reducing weaknesses prevailing in a number
of banks. Two relatively small banks in need of major recapitalization were requested by SBEF
to do so. Owners of one of the banks complied but those of the other one ­BUN--refused. BUN
had received assistance from the PROFOP program, whose agreement contemplated that if a
bank under the program needed capitalization and the owners did not provide it, the Government
would convert the related subordinated debt into equity. In November 2003, after a long
negotiation process and careful legal and political considerations, the Government instructed
NAFIBO (representative of the Government for PROFOP) to convert PROFOP subordinated
debt into equity. The capitalization process took long time because it entailed complicated legal
and political aspects, but became fully effective in June 2004, with NAFIBO acquiring majority
shares and control of BUN's board and management. The government agreed with the Bank and
IMF teams to sell NAFIBO's shares within two years from the time of the capitalization, and in
October 2004, the Minister of Finance instructed NAFIBO to start the sale process. Since the
focus was on the sale, NAFIBO did not do any major restructuring, (although the Bank team had
insisted they should), but improved management and took prudential measures to reduce the
likelihood of further deterioration of the bank's assets.

All presidents before Mr. Morales had reiterated their willingness to sell BUN, but the sale faced
legal problems and was postponed due to the negotiations with minority shareholders to avoid
further legal issues. The willingness to sell BUN changed when President Morales took office.
In early 2006, issues concerning BUN passed to the Ministry of Development Planning which
took decisions jointly with the Cabinet. Shortly before Closing Date, at the request of the Bank
team for a formal decision regarding the sale of BUN and the handling of its weaknesses, the
Ministry of Development Planning informed the MH, who in turn informed the Bank, that BUN
will be preserved as a mechanism for the State's active participation in the financial sector with



                                                 25

the objective of providing financing on terms adjusted to the conditions of excluded productive
sectors and regions. BUN will be capitalized without the remaining three main (minority)
private shareholders, thereby increasing the Government's share from 83 to 95 percent. The Bank
considered this condition as only partly achieved because in the absence of a market test through
a sale, it was unclear whether the financial situation of BUN had continued to deteriorate and
required additional capital by the time of loan/credit closing or beyond. However, it was
remarkable that the capitalization was made following agreed principles which precluded bailing
out previous owners--as it had been typically the case historically--in spite of the owner's
political connections. This was an important precedent to reduce the moral hazard introduced by
previous bailouts and provided a strong signal of the capacity and willingness of the authorities
to take difficult actions to enhance the stability and strength of the financial system.

Use of FASF funds to support bank resolution transactions: Not Achieved: FASF has
available funds amounting to (IDA equivalent to) US$10 million from the proceeds of the first
tranche disbursement, but these funds have not been used before the Closing Date, or up to the
preparation of this ICR, for the simple reason that no eligible bank resolution transaction has
taken place. The sale of BUN could have required the use of the FASF to strengthen the CAR of
the buyer. Lack of use of FASF funds should not be seen as a failure of this component. On the
contrary, it could be argued that the existence of a well capitalized FASF had a positive impact
in the confidence in the system, which together with the recovery of the economy, reduced the
need to resolve the banks. The available funds remain an important source of stability, should
there be a need to resolve banks (or even for mergers considered strategically important to
support). At Appraisal, the use of FASF funds was thought to be imminent (e.g. for the sale of
BUN, but possibly to enable the resolution of other banks if capitalizations did not take place,
weaknesses increased, or runs worsened leading to bank failures). The total amount of the
operation would have provided funds to enable the bank resolutions that were expected at the
time of Board presentation. However, since the largest weaknesses were handled without bank
failure, the US$10 million currently in the FASF remain an important amount for the system.
The request by the authorities for the disbursement of the IDA portion of the second tranche a
few days prior to Closing Date is evidence of the importance that the authorities give to the
FASF. Although the authorities also requested the cancellation of the IBRD component of the
second tranche, this does not reflect lack of commitment of the authorities to fund the FASF, but
a desire to give priority use of the funds to real problems while limiting Bolivia's indebtedness,
consistent with the recent debt forgiveness by Bolivia's large creditors (including the World
Bank).

Clarification of functions and responsibilities of the FRF: Achieved. An indicative action for
a second programmatic loan in support of BCRP was the presentation to Congress of a draft law
clarifying the functions and responsibilities of the FRF ­ which provides funds to enable the
coverage of protected depositors during resolution processes of insolvent banks, as per Art. 120
of the Banking Law. A law was approved for this purpose which establishes that the FRF is to
provide liquidity to banks assuming the assets and liabilities of a failed bank by providing:
(i) guarantees on the acquired assets as payment for the assumed liabilities; and (ii) resources to
allow them to sell their participations in the trust fund formed with the portfolio and other assets
of the failed bank. Since 2003 the BCB has been charging fees to the banks participating in the
FRF. The legal clarity of the FRF is important in the absence of a (limited) deposit insurance
system and the previous history of bailing out depositors and bank owners. At end-2005, a draft
law was sent to Congress to create an explicit and limited deposit insurance fund which would
extend the role of the FRF to cover also bank liquidations. The drafting of this bill involved
careful technical analysis and coordination efforts among all institutions involved. The Bank
team provided extensive TA and coordination, at the request of the authorities and the IMF.


                                                   26

Approving this law was beyond the conditionality of this operation.


Corporate Restructuring and Bankruptcy: Moderately Unsatisfactory Performance

Strengthening the Superintendency of Enterprises: Partially Achieved. The authorities had
decided to create the SE prior to the preparation of this operation, to enable the working of the
VWL, despite the evidence of mixed results of such institutions provided by the Bank team.
Strengthening of this institution was included in the operation to ensure that it had adequate
staffing and implementation capacity. The Bank found that the new Superintendent for the SE
appointed in July 2004 was well qualified and that the SE had an adequate vision of its role in
the ongoing corporate restructuring process and beyond, but that its assigned budget for
operational expenses was insufficient. Given the limited progress in corporate restructuring
achieved up to now, it is doubtful if the creation of the SE was a good idea. However, the SE
remained intensively engaged in the corporate restructuring efforts, always searching for ways to
improve the institutional framework and provide guidance. Extensive Bank TA was provided
through supervision missions regarding the need to implement legal changes to the VWL and
other institutional changes to enable informal restructurings. The SE and the authorities
welcomed the advice and implemented various recommendations, but fell short from making the
required legal changes, resorting to regulatory or other changes by decree. In retrospect, the role
played by the SE could have been accomplished, more cheaply, and maybe faster, by other
institutions already in place such as the already established Superintendency of Pensions,
Securities and Insurance. Lack of effective role of the SE can also be attributed to the fact that
there were four SE Superintendents in three years. The SE could play an important role in the
future to ensure the continued strengthening of the legal and institutional framework for
corporate insolvency, which is an area that the current authorities are interested to improve.

Identification of corporations suitable to potentially initiate restructuring process and
organization of workshop to promote corporate restructuring process. Achieved. As of mid-
2004, the SE was considering about 10 potential restructuring cases within the framework of the
VWL. Three or four of these cases were advanced and involved different restructuring
approaches, while others were sent to liquidation. The Corporate Restructuring Workshop took
place during October 25-29, 2004 with the participation of President Mesa. The Workshop
included sharing of international experience by Bank staff, the Superintendent of Corporations of
Colombia and his team, an international consulting company and a Peruvian Lawyer. The
Workshop was attended by 200 people in La Paz, 150 in Cochabamba and 70 in Santa Cruz.
Participants included representatives of banks, private companies, lawyers, the authorities and
restructuring promoters. This workshop increased the momentum for corporate restructuring in
Bolivia, during a period when this was a political priority, and broadened discussions among
private parties on the issues involved. Arguably, the restructurings that took place since 2004
outside the VWL, which the banks reported as having covered all restructuring needs of their
debtors, may have been enhanced by the intensified discussions on corporate restructuring
approaches and techniques available. This information was channelled not only through the
specific workshop, but also through the dialogue of both the SBEF/SE and the Bank team with
the banks that had been identified as more exposed to corporate insolvency by the diagnoses
carried out under this operation.

Creation of the Corporate Restructuring Fund (CRF), to provide fresh money to eligible
corporations undergoing restructuring processes. Not Achieved. At the time of negotiations,
the Government had started to design corporate funds to support corporations in their
restructuring process, in parallel to the FASF and to operate in accordance with market based


                                                27

principles as was the FASF. The CRF was created in February 2004, with US$73 million form
CAF, as a trust fund managed by NAFIBO. Although 16 enterprises entered in voluntary
restructuring arrangements, only one used CRF funds for US$1.3 million. Corporations report
that lack of use of these funds was linked to: (i) the high cost of using these funds for the
corporation under restructuring, including the interest rate charged (the CAF loan plus
NAFIBO's fee) and the cost of hiring an international firm to determine the viability of the
restructured enterprise (a requirement from CAF); (ii) the limits to the use of the funds, which
could only be used for working capital and some investments, but not to pay debts, as many
corporations wanted; and (iii) the requirement by NAFIBO of real state guarantees for the loans.
In addition, the corporations were reluctant to use the CRF funds because of the requirement to
make their operations fully transparent, which put them at a disadvantage with respect to their
competitors. The Bank team argued that a crucial element for not using the CRF was related to
the flaws of the VWL, since the CRF benefited only corporations restructured under this law.
Since the VWL provided incentives for corporations that had large debts with the Government
(such as fiscal debts) and that typically were closed to fully provisioned by the banks, their
restructuring was not intended to enable growth but to take advantage of the reduction in its debt
to the tax authority. Banks reported that they had restructured corporations on their own and that
they provided refinancing as feasible. Due to lack of effectiveness the CRF funds were
eventually returned to CAF and a portion used for other purposes. This was a political loss for
the Government, which affected the strong corporate restructuring agenda that it had previously
announced. However, this outcome was consistent with the assessment of the Bank team about
the weaknesses in the VWL and the low expectations with respect to corporate restructuring
reflected in the conditionality of the first operation.

None of the indicative actions prior to the preparation of a second BCRP concerning corporate
restructuring and bankruptcy were implemented, which included amendment of the bankruptcy
regime, additional regulation of the VWL and drafting legislation to address deficiencies in the
legal framework for creditors' rights and corporate governance. Improvements were made to the
VWL, but they lack strong legal support because they were done through decrees and not
through legal changes. The bankruptcy regime may be improved in the future. Technical
discussions on this topic with the Bank team continued with successive political and technical
teams in Bolivia, and improvements are being considered as part of a new PSD investment
operation under preparation.

Anti-money Laundering: Unsatisfactory Performance

Adoption of revised 40+8 FATF Recommendations: Not Achieved. There were early
achievements in this area in line with requirements for first tranche disbursement including the
incorporation in 2003 of AML/CFT aspects into bank inspection manuals and on-site
inspections. The drafting of the law to incorporate the revised FATF recommendations
experienced major delays due to other pressing priorities of the authorities and the various
changes in the technical groups in charge of drafting the law. In early 2006, the authorities took
some formal actions to revise anti money laundering legislation. Supreme Decree No. 28.695
was issued in April 2006, establishing that a new UIF will, over time, replace the existing one.
The new UIF is expected to focus on measures against corruption and illicit enrichment, not on
combating terrorism financing as originally envisioned. A bill of law was presented to Congress
to reform some aspects of Bolivia's AML Law. This bill establishes the legal framework to
prevent, detect, and sanction acts of corruption as part of the public function, and new
dispositions of the Penal Code to include national or international bribing of public employees.
However, the bill does not deal properly with other topics such as: (i) typology of assets
laundering; (ii) corruption as illicit activity underlying money laundering; and (iii) preventive


                                                   28

and dissuasive measures. The AML/CFT Unit in the Bank has issued a report indicating that the
legal actions taken by the Bolivian authorities do not meet the required standards. Arguably, the
new rules are more a reflection of a large focus of the current Government on corruption as part
of its political discourse, rather than disagreement per se with the objective of AML/CFT. If
approved, the new legislation and new rules for the UIF would move Bolivia away from
international norms about AML/CFT and cause confusion and delays in cases in which other
countries ask for assistance against money laundering and terrorism financing.

The anti-money laundering component is not clearly related to the other policy reforms needed
in the context of a systemic crisis, but its inclusion responded to a Bank corporate priority in this
type of operations. Nevertheless, there has been little technical discussions on this matter
between the Bank and the new Government prior to the closing of this operation. The operation
was about to close at the time that changes in AML/CFT were being implemented and issues
about the changes were raised in various communications to the Government concerning
compliance with second tranche conditions. The Bank's AML/CFT Unit has started to engage in
a renewed dialogue with the authorities since the closing of this operation. It is unclear if these
discussions will result in shifting the authorities away from their focus on measures against
corruption and illicit enrichment and more into AML/CFT per se. The MH has organized a
technical team that is reformulating the draft law in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice,
SBEF and the UIF.


8.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


After the Closing Date, an ISR was archived downgrading the final Development Objective
(DO) rating from Moderately Satisfactory to Moderately Unsatisfactory, and correcting the
system mistake of upgrading the Implementation Performance (IP) rating in the previous ISR.
The DO downgrading was due to Bank's Management caution in view of the uncertainty about
the sustainability of some of the operation's outcomes as a result of Bolivia's political and social
instability. The review carried out for the preparation of this ICR shows that there has been a
number of important achievements under this operation (see below) which justify reverting the
DO rating to Moderately Satisfactory, as recorded in the first June 30, 2006 ISR.


The most important accomplishments of the BCRP are in terms of financial sector legal,
regulatory and institutional reforms, which have contributed to the strengthening of the financial
sector and to reduce the risk of future systemic financial crises. These accomplishments are:
First, during the crucial stages of the crisis when the systemic risk was at is highest and at least
one bank had major solvency problems (BUN), the authorities, through the SRT, followed a
cohesive and coordinated approach which led to the effective handling of repeated bank runs and
to the capitalization of this bank according to pre-established principles. The way the authorities
handled the capitalization of BUN is evidence of a change from the way banking problems were
handled in the past, which involved debt forgiveness and relatively lenient capitalization
programs, providing incentives for banks to engage in riskier activities. Second, confirmation of
SBEF as the exclusive authority in matters of prudential norms and regulations (through the
LOPE) has strengthened its control over the banks and its ability to handle banking problems.
Third, the analysis of the interconnections between banks and corporations has helped to identify
potentially large exposures and take prudential measures, while enabling improvements in the
way banks are supervised. Fourth, improvements in prudential regulations and rules for prompt
corrective actions, which went beyond the Government's commitments under this operation,


                                                  29

have led to enhanced capitalization of at least one bank (other than BUN), improvements in bank
management in at least one large bank, and increased provisioning in all banks. This contributed
(together with faster economic growth) to recent improvements in bank performance, enabling
banks to increased their capacity to progressively restart prudent lending. Fifth, the bank
resolution mechanism has been strengthened through the adoption of new rules and regulations
and the operational guidelines for the use of the FASF and the FRF. The successful resolution of
five mutuales that had been insolvent for several years, reflected not only the capability of the
authorities to effectively implement resolution of failing financial institutions without leading to
runs, but also addressed lingering insolvency problems that were allowed to remain unsolved,
which improved incentives to enhance the behaviour of financial institutions. Although the
FASF has not been utilized because the two banks with severe insolvency problems were
capitalized and no bank resolutions were needed, it has contributed to strengthening confidence
in the banking system that help in bank resolutions would be available if needed, possibly
reducing the risk of deposit runs.


The accomplishments of the operation in improving the legal framework for corporate
restructuring were modest. Improvements in this area were not a major objective of the
operation, but some actions were included to keep the technical discussion alive and maintain the
interest of the constantly changing authorities on such improvements. Deeper reforms would
have been supported by a follow up operation. There were, however, some accomplishments in
enhancing the framework and institutional capacity for corporate restructuring. The seminars on
corporate restructuring (October 2004) and follow up discussions with banks and corporations
carried out by SBEF/SE may have helped to increase the interest of banks in engaging in
corporate restructuring directly (which they report themselves as having taken place
extensively), while some restructuring operations did take place under the new system. The
dialogue on the need to enhance bankruptcy legislation and procedures helped to raise
understanding on these issues among public officials and private sector representatives. The
current authorities remain interested in improving bankruptcy legislation and are engaged in an
active dialogue on this topic with the author of the Insolvency ROSC, and are considering
including a related component under an investment PSD operation under preparation.


8.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


This operation was not intended to have a direct impact on poverty or social development, but an
indirect one by addressing financial sector weaknesses through the strengthening of the
regulatory and supervisory framework and encouraging the restructuring and reorganization of
banks and corporations. This would reduce the risks of a systemic banking crisis and provide an
enabling environment to restart prudent lending, which would boost economic growth and
employment. It can be argued that the actions taken under the BCRP operation concerning the
financial system have contributed to reducing the probability of a banking crisis and the
associated high social costs. The international experience is that financial crises entail huge fiscal
costs that crowd out social spending with dramatic effects on poverty increase. The fiscal cost of
the 1999 banking crisis in Indonesia amounted to 50 percent of GDP. The Brazil crisis of 1994
had a fiscal cost of about 13 percent of GDP and the Mexican crisis of 1994/1995 had a cost to
the Government of about 20 percent of GDP. A study of the cost of banking crises in 56
countries during 1973-1997 found that they had generated an accumulative loss of 8.3 percent of
GDP. Moreover, the strengthening of banks and increasing profitability has enabled banks to



                                                 30

restart incipient lending, which is an important factor to enhance growth. Also, the resolution of
five insolvent mutuales has strengthened the sector, which services mostly low income clients in
rural areas, and enhanced their capacity to continue providing services to this clientele.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening


This operation has had important successes in institutional strengthening. The most important is
the strengthening of the role of SBEF as the regulatory authority in the financial sector through
the LOPE, and the adoption of stricter prudential rules. SBEF has been further strengthened by
the elimination of obstacles to its budgetary autonomy and the commitment of the authorities to
preserve its autonomy regardless of future institutional changes. NAFIBO's institutional
capability to manage trust funds was strengthened through the creation of the FASF and the
development of its Operating Principles and Procedures. The operation also helped the SE to
develop a vision of its role in corporate restructuring and the SRT to adopt sound guiding
principles for the implementation of the systemic BCRP, which were applied in the capitalization
of BUN and the resolution of five mutuales.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N.A.

8.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops


N.A.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial


The risk to the development outcomes has been rated as substantial reflecting the concern of the
Bank that the challenges and social pressures faced by the new administration could limit its
ability to respond to future bank failures or runs according to the principles of the new bank
resolution framework, or to enforce the strengthened prudential rules. These concerns have not
materialized. The new authorities have not reversed any of the financial sector legal and
regulatory reforms and the autonomy of SBEF has not been curtailed. The authorities are now
focusing more on issues of access to credit than on financial stability issues. The change in
priorities reflects the fact that the financial sector has become more stable and that there is now
an effective mechanism to deal with bank failures. But, access to credit remains limited,
particularly to SMEs, which reduces their capacity to grow and provide employment and raise
incomes, which remain important development objectives in Bolivia.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                   31

The Bank preparation team made efforts to ensure a high quality at entry for this operation. The
policy reforms agreed with the Government were based on the recommendations of the FSAP
and the Insolvency ROSC, complemented by the technical work during preparation of specialists
that deepened the analysis of the FSAP in specific areas. The operation was designed in close
interaction with the authorities, including across agencies, taking into account both technical and
political aspects to ensure that the design was adequate to the prevailing Bolivian context. Also
to ensure quality at entry, the Bank team, in agreement with the authorities, reoriented funds
from the Regulatory TA loan, that was otherwise going to be closed because of insufficient
implementation, to carry out bank and corporate sector diagnoses. To ensure consistency of
policy recommendations to the Bolivian Government by the IFIs, the Bank preparation team
coordinated closely with the IMF, IADB and CAF during preparation. The Bank was aware of
the political constraints to implementing some of the agreed reforms faced by the Bolivian
Government, and exercised appropriate flexibility with respect to the timing and sequencing of
the reforms. As a result of the careful preparatory work, this operation was well designed and
achieved most of its development objectives despite difficult social and political circumstances.


(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly Satisfactory


The political changes and high turnover of government officials in the implementing agencies
required a substantial and sustained supervision effort to ensure their understanding and
commitment to the objectives of the BCRP. Supervision missions were staffed with experienced
consultants that provided intensive technical assistance to the authorities in areas of bank
resolution and corporate restructuring, often adding activities not originally envisioned but
within the broad BCRP, at the request of the authorities (e.g. assessing the role of the FRF based
on international experience for the drafting of a deposit insurance law). In particular, it is worth
mentioning the efforts made by the supervision team to help the authorities to organize and
deliver the Corporate Restructuring Workshop at the end of 2004. Each supervision mission
worked intensively with technical counterparts to take stock of progress and identify areas for
technical support. Bank technical support was particularly intensive with respect to the changes
in prudential regulations and the implementation of the bank resolution framework. The Bank
provided TA prior to the capitalization of BUN to highlight the importance of compliance with
pre-established principles and the adoption of a new set of incentives for prudent behaviour by
the banks, as well as TA to help the authorities incorporate the lessons from the first resolution
of an insolvent mutual using the new system into the Operating Manual and Procedures for bank
resolution transactions. Extensive TA efforts were also directed at improving the framework for
corporate restructuring, which eventually led to the regulatory changes that were implemented.
Some of the TA provided by the Bank under this operation was closely coordinated with the IMF
to ensure the reinforcement of difficult but needed reforms, as in the case of improved
provisioning rules and liquidity management. Much of this TA was recognized by the authorities
as having helped to increase their technical capabilities and improve coordination efforts among
the implementing agencies, while helping to accelerate taking some actions such as the creation
of the FASF and other financial sector actions taken by the Government that went beyond those
required by this operation. There was also constant communication between the supervision
team and the implementing agencies through emails and video conferences. The BTOs, PSRs
and ISRs issued were comprehensive and provided Bank management with the needed
information on developments that could impact the outcomes of the operation.

Once the banking system started to stabilize and gained strength, and the prudential and prompt
corrective actions were in place, Bank supervision missions started to focus more on aspects


                                                 32

related to access to finance. Since early 2005, missions were staffed with specialists to start
reassessing the key constrains to access to credit particularly for SMEs, since microenterprises
tend to be relatively better served in Bolivia. The authorities, particularly the Governor of the
BCB, welcomed this new focus, which responded to a prevailing concern that had been
overshadowed by the urgency of the crises and the systemic risk. Extensive technical discussions
with the authorities on issues of access to credit are reflected in the policy notes written by the
members of the team of this operation, which viewed access to credit as one of the main issues
relevant for Bolivia. The Bank's focus on issues of access to credit is key in the context of the
stated main objective of the new Government in the financial sector, now that the financial
system has achieved a level of stability. The Bank team also dedicated increasing efforts to
maintain a dialogue on issues of bankruptcy procedures with the different Ministers that were
appointed, often resending technical reports and organizing video conferences with technical
staff to ensure that the message was kept alive.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory


The Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory based on a number of considerations. The
operation was well designed and relevant in view of the conditions of the banking and corporate
sectors in Bolivia at the time of Appraisal. The Bank was aware that political and social unrest
could hamper the restructuring efforts, but made the correct decision to go ahead in view of the
importance of the reforms to prevent a systemic crisis and the strong commitment of the
authorities at the time. The Bank also showed sustained commitment to the operation during
implementation and promptness in adapting the provision of TA during supervision to changing
needs and objectives in the rapidly evolving political environment. It maintained a high level
policy dialogue with the frequently changing authorities and provided intensive technical
assistance to the implementing agencies, which was crucial to the achievements of the operation
in terms of institution building and legal and regulatory reforms. The authorities often praised
the team with the CMU, reporting that they valued the TA and the accessibility of the team to
help them address emerging issues.

10.2 Borrower Performance


(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Government took early
ownership of the recommendations of the FSAP and Insolvency ROSC and decided to implement
a comprehensive and ambitious BCRP strategy, and requested support from the IFIs to develop
and implement it. The Government took a number of measures to implement its program early in
the process of preparation of the operation (early 2003), including the formalization of the SRT,
the approval of the LOPE and approval of new regulation for prompt corrective action. Although
by the time of pre-appraisal (November 2003) a new administration had taken office and the
political and economic situation remained fragile, the new officials were committed to go ahead
with the BCRP objectives and were highly supportive of the operation. This was helped by the
fact that many of the technical staff remained unchanged, and often the new Ministers came from
within the same Ministry and were already aware of the operation and had had interaction with
the Bank team at different levels.



                                                33

The Government's performance during implementation was moderately unsatisfactory. Most of
the second tranche actions and some indicative actions for a second programmatic operation
were completed before the end of 2004. Relatively little was achieved in the remaining one and
a half years in which the operation was active, although most of the pending actions were
relatively minor compared to the large accomplishments early on. Two main factors contributed
to a less effective implementation of the reforms since 2005. One factor was the increased
political and social instability that affected the Mesa and Velzé administrations, which focused
the authorities' attention on more pressing challenges and led to frequent changes in ministerial
authorities. The other factor was that the danger of a systemic crisis had receded as the economy
and the banking system had gradually improved, making the objectives of the BCRP less urgent.

The new authorities that took office in January 2006 were not focused on complying with the
remaining conditions, as there were pressing urgencies at the national level (Constitutional
Assembly, renegotiation of gas contracts, etc). Importantly, the authorities did not request an
extension of the Closing Date or a waiver of the pending conditions on time to process them,
even though the Bank team had repeatedly indicated that some of the partial pending actions
were relatively minor and that the Bank could assist in completing them, while at least one (use
of FASF funds) could have been considered for a waiver. The authorities did send a letter to the
Bank two days before the Closing Date indicating their interest in increasing the funds of the
FASF with the proceeds of the second tranche disbursement, and that they expected to complete
all of the pending actions by mid-July (after the Closing Date). They also included a request for a
waiver of the use of FASF funds and a request for cancellation of the IBRD loan portion of the
second tranche, while requesting the disbursement of the IDA credit portion. The request for
cancellation of the IBRD portion was to be expected. The Government has benefited from the
debt cancellation program by the Bank in early 2006 under HIPC, which saves Bolivia over
US$40 million per year in debt service, and the Government in-take under the new Hydrocarbon
Law enacted in 2005 has increased substantially. It did not make sense for the new authorities to
enjoy debt reduction and subsequently get a disbursement on the most expensive IBRD loan
portion.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


     Implementing Agency                                    Performance
Vice Ministry of Pensions and         VPSF was the technical counterpart of the Bank in the
Financial Services (VPSF)             preparation and implementation of this operation. Its
under the Ministry of Finance         performance was professional and effective, even beyond
                                      what was expected given the political circumstances.
                                      Within VPSF, the Directorate of Banking Entities played a
                                      substantial role in the accomplishments of actions
                                      concerning the banking sector and in coordinating technical
                                      discussions on regulatory improvements and corporate
                                      restructuring (including drafting some of these regulations).

Superintendency of Banks and          These agencies were involved in the design and
Final Entities (SBEF), National       implementation of the agreed actions in the areas of
Finance Institution (NAFIBO),         prudential regulation, prompt corrective action and bank
and Central Bank of Bolivia           resolution framework. They experienced relatively few
(BCB)                                 personnel changes, which provided continuity to the
                                      implementation of the reform program. Their performance


                                                  34

                                      was highly professional and effective. The success in
                                      achieving key objectives of this operation hinged largely
                                      upon them, including both their managers and technical
                                      teams.

Superintendency of Enterprises        This agency was in charge of enabling voluntary workouts
(SE)                                  and of strengthening the legal framework for corporate
                                      restructuring. This agency had a strong commitment to
                                      enable improvements in corporate restructuring and beyond,
                                      which led to some selected achievements in this area, but
                                      shortcomings in the VWL and lack of political support for
                                      reforms limited its effectiveness. The staff frequently
                                      engaged in technical discussions with the Bank team and
                                      welcomed (and sometimes requested) its guidance.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


The political instability and social unrest that Bolivia endured during the last few years has
posed great challenges to the different government authorities in charge of developing and
implementing the BCRP supported by this operation. Despite these challenges, implementing
agencies have been largely successful in pursuing the reform agenda. In particular, SBEF has
been effective in implementing important reforms in the areas of prudential regulation, prompt
corrective action and bank resolution framework. SBEF has gone beyond the agreements under
this operation in strengthening loan classification and provisioning rules. Also, the coordinated
effort to make effective the capitalization of BUN under pre-agreed principles overcame major
political and social hurdles, apart from legal considerations. The SE had more limited success,
but well within expectations when the operation was designed.

11. Lessons Learned

i) The quality of the technical analysis underpinning a policy based operation is crucial to their
success. The high quality of the technical analysis was crucial to engage the authorities'
commitment to the reform agenda during preparation of this operation. High quality technical
analysis carried out also during supervisions was also important to maintain the new authorities
involved and to respond to changes in their priorities as the political and economic situation
evolved. The results of the technical analysis in areas of corporate restructuring and bankruptcy
have remained the basis of policy dialogue with the new authorities on future reforms. The
engagement of the technical teams of the different implementing agencies in the technical
discussions during preparation and implementation was important to keep the commitment to the
success of the reforms alive in an environment of rapidly changing political actors because in
Bolivia, even if presidents and ministers changed, the majority of the technical teams remained
or were selected from the same pool of professionals.

ii) The existence of a well funded Bank Capitalization Fund to support bank restructuring can be
an effective stabilizing factor for the financial system. The funds in the FASF were not used to
support bank resolutions in part because the conditions in the banking system gradually
improved and no bank resolution took place. Other activities that could have been supported by
the FASF such as the merger of two large and well capitalized banks were completed without


                                                  35

FASF assistance for not to use scarce FASF funds that could be needed to prevent an individual
bank failure from having systemic implications. It could be argued that the existence of a well
capitalized FASF may have had a positive impact in the confidence in the system, thereby
reducing the likelihood of runs on weaker banks that could have resulted in a systemic crisis,
making use of FASF funds unnecessary. In future operations that support this type of funds, the
conditionality should be that they are fully operational and available to support eligible
transactions, and not that the funds have been used in specific transactions. Also, if effective
demand for the use of a capitalization fund does not materialize, the fund should be able to lend
its funds to the deposit insurance fund because both funds have complementary roles in bank
resolution processes.

iii) Borrower ownership is difficult to maintain under changing political circumstances, but it is
important to keep all necessary elements as part of the technical discussions in case the situation
improves and unforeseen actions do materialize. The success of any policy based operation
depends on the ownership and commitment of the Borrower to the policy reforms. However,
even if the Borrower is fully committed and convinced of the importance of the reforms, as was
the case during the preparation of this operation, it is not easy to foresee how future political
circumstances will affect the Borrower's priorities. This is a challenge inherent to this type of
operations. During preparation the Bank was aware of the risks to the operation posed by the
political and social uncertainty at the time of Appraisal, and decided to go ahead. This was a
good but risky decision. The risk was reduced by the early implementation of crucial actions to
ensure that the main objectives of the reform were achieved as early as possible. In a politically
uncertain environment keeping the dialogue active in key areas, even those that are deemed
unlikely to materialize, is particularly necessary and may prove effective in promoting reforms.
This was the case in the early upgrading of classification and provisioning rules in early 2005, as
well as the persisting interest of the authorities in improving the bankruptcy procedures and the
steps forward (albeit relatively small) in the agenda for corporate restructuring.

iv) Policy based operations may require strong technical assistance efforts as part of the
supervision process. In the course of preparation and implementation of this operation, the Bank
and other IFIs (IMF, IADB and CAF) provided extensive TA assistance to the Government
agencies involved, though the organization of seminars, use of existing TA operations, and TA
provided by the Bank team during preparation and supervision missions as described in Section
10.1 (b). Extraordinary efforts in providing TA are often crucial for the success of policy based
operations, but the needed resources are not always available to the Bank teams. TA loans
implemented in parallel to policy based loans are very useful, but these loans cannot be used to
fund Bank staff, which in many cases are the best qualified to provide the ongoing TA needed
for effective implementation of the loan conditions. Mechanisms are needed to fund this type of
Bank provided TA in ways that do not impinge on the usually limited preparation and
supervision budgets.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


(b) Cofinanciers


(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                                 36

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives. The broader policy objective of this programmatic
loan/credit was to support the Government's BCRP aimed at strengthening the financial and
corporate sectors by consolidating and expanding institutional and regulatory reforms, and
encouraging restructuring and reorganization of banks and enterprises. This would reduce the
probability of systemic risks and provide an enabling environment to restart prudent lending,
ultimately boosting economic growth and employment. The PDOs are grouped into the following
areas: (i) Organizational arrangements to manage systemic bank and corporate restructuring;
(ii) Legal clarity on appropriate distribution of regulatory powers; (iii) Bank and corporate
diagnosis; (iv) Prudential strengthening and prompt corrective action; (v) Bank resolution
framework; (vi) Corporate restructuring and bankruptcy; and (vii) Anti-money laundering.


Revised Program Development Objectives

The Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                              Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at

                                          approval documents)        Target      Completion or
                                                                     Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Better capitalized banks with increased capacity to progressively restart prudent
                lending and hence, growth.
                                           Preserving

                Declining trends in bank   institutions being                   All banks have
                credit, partly due to low  well-capitalized.                    CAR above 11%
Value           capitalization of a few    Banks progressively                  under
(quantitative   banks --two with           restarting prudent                   strengthened
or              solvency issues-- (apart   lending, provided                    classification and
qualitative)    from low credit demand     low demand                           provisioning rules.
                resulting from             improves and                         Banks have
                recession).                corporate
                                           restructuring speeds                 restarted credit.

                                           up.
Date
achieved               01/31/2004                                                  06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %        PDO achieved. All banks have strengthened their capital. Bank credit started a

achievement)    mild recovery in 2005, but it is still below 1999 level.

                Lowered incentives for financial institutions to engage in riskier activities, thus
Indicator 2 :   reducing the likelihood of another costly crisis and its negative impact on growth
                and macroeconomic stability.
Value           At least two banks and     Timely addressing                    Prudential
(quantitative   several mutuales with      weaknesses in                        regulation was
or              solvency problems.         financial institutions               strengthened in
qualitative)    Prudential regulation      before developing                    May 2005. Two


                                                37

              needing strengthening,       into costly crises to            banks have been
              but contingent on            lower incentives to              capitalized and the
              difficult political and      engage in riskier                mutuales with
              social context.              activities, thus                 solvency
                                           reducing systemic                problems have
                                           risks and likelihood             been resolved.
                                           of crises.
Date
achieved             01/31/2004                                                06/30/2006

Comments      PDO achieved. As a result of new prudential rules, by mid-2005 banks made

(incl. %      US$57 million in additional provisions. A degree of financial sector stability has

achievement)  been achieved and the Government is now focusing on aspects of access to
              credit, particularly by SMEs.
Indicator 3 : Lowered time and costs for early corporate restructuring processes to increase
              their likelihood of success, promote higher employment and output.

              Legal framework for          Increase number of               Some corporate
              corp. restructuring          effective corporate              restructuring took
Value         established and              restructuring                    place under the
(quantitative superintendency of           processes boosting               VWL. Banks also
or            enterprises (SE) created.    their likelihood of              carried out
qualitative)  No corporate                 success, and                     corporate
              restructuring processes      enabling them to                 restructurings of
              under new framework.         increase
                                           employment.                      viable clients.

Date
achieved             01/31/2004                                                06/30/2006

Comments      PDO partly achieved. Future advances in corporate restructuring will require
(incl. %      addressing deficiencies in the legal framework for creditor's rights, the VWL,
achievement)  and the bankruptcy regime.
              Continued strengthening of AML prudential framework, which could contribute
Indicator 4 : to boost interest of the foreign investment in the financial sector (subject to
              macro, political, and social stability).
                                           Law effectively
                                           implemented to                   AML/CTF aspects
              Lacking adoption of          provide signal of                have been
Value         revised 40+8 FATF            strengthen                       incorporated in
(quantitative Recommendations of           framework to                     bank supervision.
or            the Financial Action         international and                The new draft
qualitative)  Task Force on Money          national investors               AML Law does
              Laundering.                  (apart from macro,               not meet required
                                           political and social             standards.
                                           stability).
Date
achieved             01/01/2004                                                06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      PDO not achieved. The draft AML Law is being reformulated.
achievement)




                                               38

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     39

Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

            Names                         Title               Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
 Javier A. Bolzico             Consultant                     LCSPF
 Isabella Micali Drossos       Sr Counsel                    LEGLA
 Ruth Neyens                   Consultant                     OPD
 Juan Ortiz                    Sr Financial Sector Spec.      LCSPF
 Sophie Sirtaine               Sr Financial Sector Spec.      ECSPF
 Ilias Skamnelos               E T Consultant                 ECSPF
 Cara Zappala                  Operations Analyst             ECSPF
 Augusto de la Torre           Sr Adviser                     FPDFS
Supervision/ICR
 Solange A. Alliali            Sr Counsel                    LEGLA
 Daniel Fernando Alonso        Consultant                    LEGPS
 Javier A. Bolzico             Consultant                     LCSPF
 Hela Cheikhrouhou             Financial Economist            LCSPF
 Mariluz Cortes                Consultant                     LCSPF
 Paola J. Granata              E T Consultant                 LCSPF
 Xiomara A. Morel              Senior Finance Officer        LOAG1
 Ruth Neyens                   Consultant                     OPD
 Adolfo Rouillon               Sr Counsel                    LEGPS
 Sophie Sirtaine               Sr Financial Sector Spec.      ECSPF

 Rajeev Kumar Swami            Sr Financial Management
                              Specialist                     LCSFM

 Alejandro Marcos Tapia        E T Consultant                LCSSD
 Amelia Veronica C. Yuson      Temporary                      LCSPF
 Cara Zappala                  Operations Analyst             ECSPF


(b) Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs


No.    Date ISR                                                  Actual Disbursements
       Archived               IP                     DO               (USD M)
 1     05/26/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory            0.00
 2     12/01/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory            0.15
 3     04/26/2005       Satisfactory            Satisfactory           10.15

 4     11/27/2005       Moderately
                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory           10.15

 5     06/30/2006       Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory           10.15

 6     06/30/2006       Moderately              Moderately
                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory           10.15



                                             40

 7     07/28/2006       Moderately           Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory           10.15


(c) Staff Time and Cost


                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                                             No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY03                                      23               125.90
                    FY04                                      54               268.24
                    FY05                                                          0.00
                    FY06                                                          0.00
                    FY07                                                          0.00
                                      Total:                  77               394.14
Supervision/ICR
                    FY03                                                          0.00
                    FY04                                       7                30.33
                    FY05                                      17               107.99
                    FY06                                       9                50.39
                    FY07                                       8                23.45
                                      Total:                  41               212.16




                                           41

Annex 4. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

                               Not Applicable




                                       42

Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

                              Not Applicable




                                   43

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Comments made by VIPFE to the draft ICR (translation from the Spanish original)

Lessons learned, scope and achievements of the Project. There are no relevant observations
with respect to the draft ICR presented by the Bank, except some considerations related to the
qualification of "Not met" given to some aspects that were condition for second tranche
disbursement.

The database administered by SFEF on the enterprises that show obligations with the financial
system and other institutions, although has suffered delays in its quarterly updating, we clarify
that coordination actions are being made with the entities that have to report.

With respect to the qualification of "Not met" to the condition of capitalization or resolution of a
bank, with respect to Banco Union, as the report points out there were concrete actions geared to
meet that commitment seeking its capitalization via its transfer to the private sector (hiring of a
recognized international firm to assess NAFIBO in the process). Nevertheless, the process was
stopped due to the deterioration that the bank started to show, but was able to be controlled. With
its strength and situation restored, the Government decided to preserve it as an instrument for the
policy objective of encouraging productive development. Considering that the options of
capitalization or resolution of Banco Union had been established as a way to solve the delicate
situation, and that the situation was resolved without having to adopt any of the two conditioning
options without violating the guiding principles, we disagree with the qualification of "Not met",
which would subordinate compliance with the objective to compliance with the means.

The implementation of measures or execution of actions that were condition related to first
tranche disbursement, particularly the norms issued by the SBEF for reprogrammed loans and
their provisions (November 2003), and later (May 2005) the introduction of basic directives for
credit risk management, establishing new evaluation and qualification criteria, both measures
related to the component of Consolidation of Prudential Regulation and Early Correction
Measures, given the prudence with which they were applied, they had no impact on the financial
entities to the degree of activating the triggers of detection and early correction (Art. 112 of the
Banking and Financial Entities Law), and even less to make the Fund to Support the Financial
System ­ FASF, enter into action.

The lack of use of FASF resources that gives way to the qualification of "Not met", should not be
interpreted as if this instrument is not meeting its objective, because its creation responds to a
precautionary measure provided mainly to confront unwanted situations as is a process of bank
resolution. Therefore, although now Bolivia presents an stable and strengthened economic
situation that guarantees the stability of the financial system and promotes its development, the
presence of the FASF is considered prudent in addition of being a confidence generation factor on
the Government and the financial system itself. In this sense, the decision has been to keep the
FASF, although as the request of partial disbursement of the second tranche (the remaining IDA
credit) was not possible, the use of its resources has been limited to supporting bank resolution
processes through the granting of: (i) subordinated loans to financial entities that acquire assets
and/or liabilities of other entities in process of resolution, and (ii) mortgage loans to natural
persons for the increase in primary capital (purchase of shares of a new issue) of financial entities
that acquire assets and/or liabilities of other entities in process of resolution.




                                                   44

With respect to "Anti-Money Laundry" which the report qualifies as "Not met", we point out that
the Ministry of Finance has created an inter-institutional team that revised an elaborated a new
version of the Bill of Law which was presented to the World Bank in June 2006. We expect that
this version, which incorporates several considerations including from GAFISUD, will be subject
to constitutional treatment next year.

Finally, in general terms we consider that the funding received from the World Bank, with which
the FASF was created in the framework of a program of institutional and legal reforms for bank
restructuring, has provided backing for the introduction of advances in prudential norms and
greater confidence to execute the process of bank resolution.




                                                45

Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/ Stakeholders




                                    46

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. First Programmatic Bank and Corporate Restructuring Program Adjustment Loan and Credit
2. Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Bolivia. October 24, 2006. World Bank Report
   No.36095-BO
3. Sistema Financiero: Desafíos y Oportunidades, by Yira Mascaró, Javier Bolzico, Alberto
   Didoni, Paola Granata, in Crecer Mas y Mejor, World Bank
4. Evaluacion del Sistema Bancario y no Bancario al 30 de Junio de 2006. SBEF
5. Country Assistance Evaluation for Bolivia. IEG. September 1, 2005. Report No.33493




                                             47

Annex 9. Banking Sector Performance




                                   48

49

50

51

