                                                   Document of
                                              THE WORLD BANK


                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                         Report No. 27495-BO




       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT/
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                          PROGRAM DOCUMENT

                                                      FOR A

                       FIRST PROGRAMMATIC BANK AND CORPORATE


                                      RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM

                 ADJUSTMENT LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15 MILLION

                                                        AND

CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.5 MILLION (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                         TO

                                       THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA



                                                January 12, 2004




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  BOLIVIA FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1- December 31
                               CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
                                     (as of January 9,2004)
                                        US$1 = Bs7.85
                                         Bsl   = US$0.1273
                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AML     -  Anti-Money Laundering
BCB     -  Banco Central de Bolivia
BCRP    -
        -  Bolivia's Bank and Corporate Restructuring Program
CAF     -
        -  Andean Finance Corporation
CAR     -
        -  Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio
CAS     -
        -  Country Assistance Strategy
CDF     -
        -  Comprehensive Development Framework
CFT     -
        -  Combating the Financing of Terrorism
CONAPFI =  Consejo Nacional de Politicas Financieras
CONFIP  =  ComitC de Normas Financieras y Prudenciales
CRF     -
        -  Corporate Restructuring Fund
FATF    -  Financial Action Task Force
FASF    -
        -  Fondo de Apoyo del Sistema Financier0
FDI     -
        -  Foreign Direct Investment
FLAR    -
        -  Fondo Latinoamericano de Reservas
FRF     -  Fondo de Recapitalizaci6n Financiera
FSAP    -
        -  Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
IADB    -
        -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFIs    -
        -  International Financial Institutions
LOLR    -
        -  Lender of Last Resort
LOPE    -
        -  Law of Reorganizationo f the Executive Branch
LSDP    -  Letter of Sector Development Policy
NAFIBO  =  Nacional Financiera de Bolivia
NPLS    -
        -  NonPerforming Loans
P&A     -
        -  Purchase and Assumption
PROFOP  =  Programa de Fortalecimiento Patrimonial
PRSP    -
        -  IMF'sPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SBA     -
        -  Stand-By Arrangement
SBEF    -
        -  Superintendencia de Bancos y Entidades Financieras
SE      -
        -  Superintendencia de Empresas
SG      -
        -  Superintendencia General
SIGMA   =  Public Sector Budget Management System
SIREFI -   Sistema de Regulacih Financiera
S&L    -
       -   Savings and Loans
SMEs   -
       -   Small and MediumEnterprises
SPVS   -
       -   Superintendencia de Pensiones, Valores y Seguros
SRJ    -
       -   Superintendencia de Recursos Jerfirquicos
SRT    -
       -   Systemic Restructuring Team
UIF    -
       -   Unidad de Inteligencia Financiera
V W L  -
       -   Voluntary Workout Law




           CountryDirector               Marcel0 Giugale
          Sector Director               Danny Leipziger
          Sector Manager                FernandoMontes-Negret
          Task TeamLeader               Yira Mascar6



                                               11

                                                                                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
      FIRST PROGRAMMATIC BANKAND CORPORATERESTRUCTURINGLOANKREDIT

                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


   I.      MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND RECENT PERFORMANCE                                                                 ....................................    1
            A.    The Context ...........................................................................................................................       1
            B.    RecentEconomic Developmentsand Prospects ......                                      ............                                         ....3
            C.    Financialand CorporateVulnerabilities, and the Government's Response...........................                                               5
   11.     CHALLENGESINTHE FINANCIALAND CORPORATESECTORS                                                                   .................................    7
            A.    Past FinancialCrises and Government Responses ......
            B.    Structureand Performanceof the FinancialSector......                                   ..................................................     9
            C.    Structureand Performanceof the Corporate Sector ........................
            D. Bankingand CorporateSectorLinkages .............................
            E.    Issueswith the Institutional,Legal, andRegulatory Frameworks.......................
   111.    THE GOVERNMENT'S BANKAND CORPORATERESTRUCTURING PRO
            A.    The Government's Systemic Approach...............................................................................                           19
            B.    Componentsof the OngoingGovernment's S
   IV.     BANKASSISTANCE STRATEGY INTHE FIN                                                                          ....................................    29
            A.    Bank Assistance Strategy towards Financial
            B.    Rationalefor ProposedBankLendingto the FinancialSector..                                                                 ...................31
            C.    Links to PovertyReduction.................................................................................................                  31
   V.      THE PROPOSED LOANKREDIT                         ............................................................................................       33
            A.    Loadcredit Objective
            B.    ProgrammaticApproa
            C.    Coordinationwith Mu
            D.    Commitments under the
            E.    IndicativeActions Expec
            F.    FiduciaryArrangements
            G.    Impact, Benefits,and Risks .................................................................................................                40

   Annex I: Matrix of Policy Actions ................................                       ...........................................................       43
   Annex 11:   Letterof Sector DevelopmentPolicy. .............                             ............................................................      47
   Annex 111: LegalClarity and Appropriateness of Bank SupervisoryFramework....................................                                               57
   Annex IV: Summary of Bolivian PrudentialRegulations ........................................................................                               61
   Annex V:    Framework for Purchaseand Assumption of FinancialInstitutions........................................                                          65
   Annex VI: Operating Principlesand Proceduresof the Fondo de Apoyo del SistemaFinancier0 ............67
   Annex VII: CorporateSector Diagnosis..................................................................................................... 75
   Annex VIII: Legaland InstitutionalFrameworkfor CorporateRestructuring.......................................                                                79
   Annex IX:    Funds to Support Bankand CorporateRestructuring............................................................                                   85
   Annex X:     Risk Assessment for FinancialManagementFramework..........................................                                                    .87
   Annex XI:    Status of Bank Group Operations .................................................
   Annex XII: BoliviaStatementof IFC's Held and DisbursedPortfolio.....................................................                                       91
   Annex XIII: Key Economic Indicatorsand Country at a Glance ..........................................................                                      93
   Annex XIV: Bolivia CAS - DebtSustainabilityAnalysis .................................................................                                      95
   Annex XV: IMFPressRelease - SecondReviewof Bolivia`s Stand-By Arrangement .....................                                                          109


   This operation has been preparedby a World Bankteam composedof Messrs./Mmes.Yira Mascar6 (Task
   Manager),August0 de la Torre (LCRCE),Juan Ortiz, Sophie Sirtaine, Mariluz CortCs, Ilias Skamnelos, and
   CaraZappala (all LCSFF),RuthNeyens (OPD),Javier Bolzico (consultant), Juan Carlos Alvarez
   (LEGLA), Xiomara Morel (LOAG3), and Rajeev Swami (LCOAA). The team worked under the general
   guidance of FernandoMontes-Negret (Sector Manager).Peer Reviewer:Jim Hanson.

This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithoutWorld Bank authorization.


                                     BOLIVIA

FIRST PROGRAMMATICBANKAND CORPORATERESTRUCTURINGPROGRAM
                         ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT


             PROPOSEDLOAN/CREDITAND PROGRAMSUMMARY




Borrower:             Republic of Bolivia

ImplementingAgency:   Central Bank of Bolivia

Amount and Terms:     US$30.0million [SDR10.5 million (US$15 million equivalent) from IDA
                      (Credit) and US$15 million from IBRD (Loan)].

                      Credit: Semiannual installments payable beginning in 2014, and ending
                      2023. Commitment fee of a variable rate not to exceed 0.5 percent of the
                      undisbursed balance set by the Executive Directors. Service charge of 34
                      of 1 percent on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
                      outstanding from time to time.

                      Loan: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL) US dollar denominated, payable in
                      23 years, including 5 years grace period with commitment-linked
                      payments, level principal repayment, at the standard variable interest rate
                      for U S dollar FSL. Commitment fee of 0.85 percent of undisbursed
                     balance from the date on which such charge commences to accrue, but not
                      including the fourth anniversary of such date, and standard charges of
                     0.75 percent on undisbursedcredit balances thereafter. Front-endfee of an
                     amount equal to one percent of the amount of the Loan.

Objective:           The broader policy objective of the proposed programmatic Loadcredit
                      i s to support the Government's Bank and Corporate Restructuring
                     Program (BCRP), aimed at strengthening the financial and corporate
                     sectors, lowering systemic risks and reducing the probability of crises.
                     This would provide an enabling environment to restart prudent lending,
                     ultimately boosting economic growth.

Description:         The BanWAssociation's (hereinafter called the Bank) strategy for
                     Bolivia's financial and corporate sectors calls for operations in a
                     programmatic context, each focusing on distinct policy measures and
                     actions that, taken as a whole, would contribute to the strengthening of the
                     financial and corporate sectors and support the Government's BCRP. The
                     Government's program, supported by this operation, involves seven main
                     components: (a) organizational arrangements to manage systemic bank
                     and corporate restructuring, (b) legal clarity on appropriate distribution of



                                          V

             regulatory powers, (c) bank and corporate diagnosis; (d) prudential
             strengthening and prompt corrective action for banks; (d) bank resolution
             framework;     (e)   legal and institutional framework for corporate
             restructuring; and (f) anti-money laundering. Such comprehensive and
             cohesive program is essential to realign incentives and set in motion a
             process where: (i)  viable banks participate in the restructuring of troubled
             but viable corporations that make the needed efforts to restore their
             financial health, (ii)troubled but viable banks restructure and regain
             medium-term profitability, and (iii) unviable banks and corporations exit
             the system in an orderly manner.

             While the first Loadcredit would have conditionality largely based on
             actions in the banking sector, the second Loan would follow a similar
             design, but with flexibility to include conditionality on the corporate
             sector if sufficient progress is achieved and/or further advances on the
             banking sector take place. The proposed first Loadcredit would be
             disbursed in two tranches, the first for US$lO.O million equivalent from
             IDA and the second for US$20.0 million from a combination of
             US$5.0 million equivalent from IDA and US$15 million from IBRD.
             The second loan is expectedto be for US$25 million.

Benefits:    The proposed first Loadcredit would have several benefits.             It will
             support reforms that contribute to the strengthening of the financial and
             corporate sectors, lowering systemic risks and reducing the probability of
             crises in the future.       The proposed Loadcredit will enhance the
             supervisory, regulatory and prompt corrective environment in the banking
             sector. .This should result in lower risks among financial intermediaries,
             reducing the likelihood of another costly crisis with the associated
             negative impact on growth and macroeconomic stability.            The bank-
             restructuring program leads to better-capitalized banks, augmenting their
             ability to restart prudent lendingto the private sector, thus contributing to
             economic growth and employment creation.                  Financial market
             consolidation and systemic risks reduction should further shield from
             crises, increasing competition that could promote broader access to
             financial services, and lowering potential drains on the public budget to
             enable effective use for social purposes. Enabling corporate restructuring
             should produce a healthier corporate sector that attracts higher levels of
             capital and enables increased production, alongside raising the likelihood
             of success of reforms in the banking sector.         A stricter anti-money
             laundering environment could potentially increase foreign investment in
             the financial sector. Finally, the Bank's support will increase private
             sector's confidence on the Government's commitment to resolve financial
             and corporate sector weaknesses.

Risks:       Both the Government's program and the proposed operation face several
             risks that are being recognized by the Bank, especially since it is not
             realistically possible for the proposed operation to address all of these
             risks and mitigate them adequately. While the Government's program
             faces many challenges, the Bank believes it i s worth supporting, in order
             to restart prudent lending and sustained growth in Bolivia. However, the
             Bank stands ready to reassess its approach to assist Bolivia, should



                                   vi

macroeconomic and sectoral conditions warrant it, as discussed in the
CAS beingpresentedtogether with this operation to the Board.

The main risks facing the operation are the following:
(i)Macro-financial       risks: High dollarization      and assedliability
mismatches pose a serious risk to creditors, while a widening fiscal
disequilibrium and rising external debt limit the Government's capacity to
deal with deposit runs. Such a run, whether originating from devaluation
fears or concerns about the health of the banking system, would be
aggravated by the timely availability of foreign exchange reserves.
However, the country has shown resilience to past depositor runs, the
banking system currently exhibits high levels of liquidity, and the Central
Bank has increasedpreparedness to deal with systemic liquidity problems,
including through stronger contingency plans. Moreover, a joined WB
and IMF debt sustainability assessment, accompanying the new CAS,
concludes that no concerns for debt sustainability should arise, but
nevertheless stresses that gas export project problems will require greater
fiscal adjustment, which necessitates politically courageous decisions.
Importantly, the proposed operation would take place in the context of an
IMF Stand-By Arrangement, approved in April 2003, and an upcoming
IMFPRGFprogramto help address macroeconomic risks.

(ii) Political and social uncertainty: Political uncertainty, particularly
given the recent social unrest, could hamper restructuring efforts and
challenge the Government's program. Furthermore, the Government's
ability to deal with bank problems could be affected by the political
influence of bank owners and large debtors, and the perception by the
public of a bailout of rich shareholders. To fend off such risks, the
Government will follow agreed upon principles and should communicate
through a strong public statement the importance of the particular reforms
and the principles behind them, in order to mobilize public opinion in
support of the reforms. The related Bank's exposure to reputational risk
i s reduced because the Bank will only be associated with actions
supported by the FASF (Fondo de Apoyo del Sistema Financiero, to be
set as a tool to support restructuringand resolution processes of financial
institutions), which adhere to agreed-upon principles.         Government
intervention in any other way should not be reflected upon the Bank.
Early successes in the Government's program (supported by international
collaboration) will enhance political support, making further reforms
easier to implement.


(iii) Limited Implementation capacity: Governance problems, the high
number of players, the complexity of interactions among them, and weak
institutional capacity could impede progress in bank and corporate
restructuring. Additionally, the scarcity of human capital for running
restructured institutions could also pose a constraint in the Government's
restructuring efforts. The completion of strong prior actions prior to
Board approval, strong conditionality embedded in the second tranche,
the performance-based nature of the project, implementation of strong
supervision and ongoing TA effort contribute to mitigate suchrisks.



                     vii

                            (iv) Inadequate framework for corporate restructuring:     An adequate
                            framework for corporate restructuring is still incomplete and could
                            slowdown progress in bank restructuring due to the interrelated nature of
                            the sectors. Furthermore, weaknesses in the Judiciary system further
                            aggravate the problem. The risk i s mitigated by the Bank's assistance in
                            capacity building for corporate restructuring throughout project
                            preparation and ongoing technical assistance, coupled with strong
                            coordination with other IFIs also supporting the Govenrment's program.
                            Importantly, a workshop bringing together interested corporations and
                            banks should be a catalyst to corporate restructuring and gamer public
                            support for the Government's program.

                            (v) Legal Risks: The confusing and fragile legal framework has been
                            improved, but there is a risk it could be overturned given the current
                            political situation. Many advances have depended on Decrees, which are
                            subordinate to laws and can be reversed or overridden with relative ease.
                            However, the resilience of recent achievements regarding legal clarity of
                            financial supervisory and regulatory powers to several institutional
                            changes, the IMF's SBA, the LSDP and existing institutional reforms
                            signal a strong Government commitment.

Schedule of                 The Loadcredit would have two tranches: a first tranche of
Disbursements:              US$lO.Omillion equivalent from IDA, and a second tranche of
                            US$20.0 million (US$5 million equivalent from IDA, US$ 15 million
                            from IBRD). The first tranche would be disbursed upon loadcredit
                            effectiveness based on evidence that a Decree has been issued for the
                            creation of the FASF.


Closing Date:               December 31,2004


Project Identification No.: PE-PO82781-LEN-BB




                                                 ...
                                                VI11

                                                   BOLIVIA

                       IBRDDDA PROGRAMDOCUMENT FOR A PROPOSED
                  FIRST PROGRAMMATIC BANK AND CORPORATE SECTOR
           RESTRUCTURINGLOANKREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

1. This Program Document describes a proposed Loan of US$15 millionand Credit of
SDR 10.5 million (US$15 millionequivalent) to the Government of Bolivia to support the
first phase of the Government's ongoing and far reaching Bank and Corporate
Restructuring Program (BCFW). The program focuses on strengthening and restructuring the
financial and corporate sectors in the context of difficult political and macroeconomic
conditions.


          I. MACROECONOMICCONTEXTANDRECENTPERFORMANCE'

                                              A.      The Context

2.      Bolivia remains one of the poorest and least developed countries in Latin America.
Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita stands below US$lOOO, with almost two thirds of the
population below the poverty line. Social indicators experienced improvements during the first
half of the last decade, but real per capita income and employment deteriorated in recent years.

3.      In 1986, Bolivia initiatedprofound reforms that succeeded instabilizing the economy
and bringing hyperinflation under control. Reforms targeted numerous parts of the economy,
from the management of public resources and the functioning of government finances, to the
health and education sectors. In the financial sector, Bolivia made crucial advances including the
passing of the General Banking Law in 1993, the Law of the Central Bank in 1995, the Law on
Pensions in 1996, the Law on the Securities Market in 1998, and the Law of Financial Sector
Strengthening in 2001.

4.      These deep structural reforms resulted in important achievements, but underlying
institutional, fiscal, and financial sector vulnerabilities persisted. Social indicators improved
substantially, with increasing education enrollments and attendance, and primary health
coverage. Nevertheless, the reforms of the late 1980sdidnot materialize into significant growth
until the early 1990s, despite debt alleviations from international creditors and new loans from
I F I s and foreign governments. This was, among others, the result of institutional weaknesses
and structural, fiscal, and financial sector vulnerabilities.

5.      External shocks in the late 1990s and early 2000s unveiled Bolivia's vulnerabilities
and partly reversed the successes of the previous years. The external shocks include the
slowdown of capital inflows to the region as a result of the Russian crisis; the deterioration of
export competitiveness following the East Asian crisis, and devaluations in Brazil, Chile and

' Part  IandI1ofthisdocumentdrawheavilyonarecentIMF-WBjointreviewimplementedthroughtheFinancial
Sector Assessment Program (FSAP). The first visit took place in January 2003 and the second in March 2003.
Also, for more details on the socioeconomic perspective (Section I.A), see new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
being presented to the Board together with this Loadcredit (Report No. 26838-BO).



                                                        1

Argentina; lower demand resulting from the Argentinean crisis and the regional downturn in
Latin America; and production shocks from natural disasters. All these external shocks
aggravated Bolivia's persisting fiscal and financial weaknesses, resulting in the deterioration of
economic indicators and the slowdown of poverty reduction efforts.

6.      Nevertheless, Bolivia has made vigorous efforts to address the negative effects of
external shocks.          In the recent past, Bolivia launched the Comprehensive Development
Framework (CDF) to improve coordination among donors under the umbrella of a
comprehensive development and poverty reduction strategy.                       Furthermore, the Government
prepared the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) to guide its overall development strategy,
while the HIPC initiative redirected payments that would have been made to service debt
towards poverty-related expenditures.2

7.      Considering the intensity of external shocks, recent policy measures have been rather
successful in avoiding a deeper financial sector crisis. The financial sector has showed its
resilience, resisting various deposit runs that put the stability of the entire financial sector in
jeopardy.       This resilience resulted from the reforms that strengthened the regulation and
supervision of financial institutions and allowed the entry of foreign banks in the system.
Nevertheless, additional weaknesses of the financial and corporate sectors have been exposed,
requiringurgent attention.

8.      Bolivia still faces important vulnerabilities resulting from external shocks, weakened
financial and corporate sectors, and a weak fiscal stance. Bolivia's economy continues to be
very sensitive to external shocks: it i s highly dependent on large external private and public
capital inflows, and on a few major export products and markets. The financial sector, in
particular, faces widespread problems due to a weakened corporate sector that threatens the
overall stability of the system and due to the perverse interactions between the banking and the
corporate sectors that only contribute to exacerbate problems. Finally, an internal cause for
concern arises from a weak fiscal stance, which i s central for debt sustainability considerations
(see Annex XIV).

9.      Although the political and social turmoil has subsided, for the time being, Bolivia
continues to face political uncertainties further complicated by economic problems.
Following several bouts of street violence and social unrest, President Sinchez de Lozada
resigned and his Vice President, Mr.Carlos Mesa, assumed the Presidency in late October 2003.
The new administration has committed itself to settle three highly sensitive issues; namely the
Reform of the Hydrocarbon Law, a referendum on gas exports, and calling a Constitutional

 Prior to the social conflict of October 2003 (see below), the Government drafted a revised PRSP structured around
four strategic areas: (i) productive pacts; (ii)social pacts; (iii)institutional sustainability; and (iv) fiscal
sustainability --the term pact is intended to cover not only the content of what will be done but also an approach to
participatory planning and implementation (see CAS Report).         At the Consultative Group meeting, the donor
community highlighted the need for stronger consultation with the Civil Society. However, after the October
conflicts, it will be impossible to have a PRSP with adequate consultation for many months. Thus, it i s unlikely that
the revised PRSP will be ready before July 2004 - and it could possibly delay more. How aggressive the poverty
reduction targets set forth in the revised PRSP can be depends on future fiscal revenues, which in turn, depends on
the outcome of the gas referendum. As the nature o f the country could change dramatically depending on the
outcomes of the Constitutional Assembly, the nature of the PRSP might also be expected to change as a
consequence.



                                                           2

Assembly to modify the Constitution. There are major difficulties in moving forward with these
politically charged subjects because of the deeply fragmented views across the country, regional
divisions, loss of credibility of the political parties, and unrealistic expectations on the part of
labor and indigenous groups. Moreover, the situation i s significantly complicated by growing
economic problems, including a widening fiscal disequilibrium (the public sector deficit i s
believed to be running at an annual rate of around 8-9 percent of GDP), extremely skittish
depositors, and ongoing erosion of solvency in bank and corporate balance sheets. The main
challenge for the new administration i s to increase the viability of the needed political and
economic reform agenda. The time horizon of the current administration depends, to a large
extent, on the time it has available to deal with the three major political commitments mentioned
above. CAS Sections 1I.B-1I.C and 1II.A provide further insight to the current political and
social situation in Bolivia.

10. The weak political stance makes pending economic reforms difficult to pass at
present, especially for the financial sector. Public support for further economic reforms has
dried up because of low economic growth, general public discontent with the squabbling
dominant political parties, perceived ineffectiveness of the Government, and persistent high
poverty. The Government of President Mesa faces opposition from other political parties, some
of which are part of the coalition government in place since August 2003, increasing barriers to
politically difficult reforms. Opposition to financial sector reforms may also come from several
powerful bank shareholders.

11. This precarious macroeconomic and political environment calls for coordinated
efforts among multilateral and bilateral agencies and a cautious program of action in the
financial and corporate sectors. These agencies provided substantial resources to Bolivia,
reaching 10 percent of its GDP in 2002; in 2003 financial resources o f the donor community will
be essential. The international community i s coordinating efforts to assist in the definition of a
program commensurate to the Government's current reform ~ a p a c i t y . ~In the case of the
financial and corporate sectors, the Bank, the Inter American Development Bank (IADB), the
Andean Finance Corporation (CAF), and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) have been
engaging in consultations to carefully define and assign tasks in handling the restructuring and
revival of the banking and corporate sectors. This operation i s based on such efforts.


                       B.       Recent Economic Developments and Prospects

12. Bolivia is currently experiencing a severe economic recession originating from a
combination of external and internal shocks. Real GDP growth has averaged 1%percent after


  The international financial institutions (IFIs) have reacted with strong support for the present administration in
implementing its short-term political and socioeconomic agenda. In addition to the recent IDA emergency package,
the IADB's Board approved in December 2003 an operation that increases the tranche amount o f a Competition
Loan from USSl.5 to US$65 million. A US$50 million emergency loan, under the terms of the latter, i s embodied in
this tranche. IMFon the other hand, once the on-going third review of the ongoing Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) is
approved, will disburse the remaining SDR 42.87 million to build up reserves before the SBA expires on April 1,
2004.    Bilateral donors, including the Netherlands, Denmark and USAID, are providing a total amount of
approximately US$15.5 million in grants for balance of payments support. CAF i s approving approximately US$%
million devoted to finance social infrastructure projects, technical assistance, and balance of payments support.
 CAS Section 1I.Acomplements our analysis inthis Section.


                                                            3

1998, a substantial reduction from the 4.4 percent average in the preceding years of the 1990s.
Domestic demand has contracted and open unemployment and underemployment have risen,
further increasing the share of the population worlung in the informal sector. Despite a strong
expansion in the petroleum and gas sectors, the major adverse external shocks and internal
difficulties have slowed down economic growth. The Russian crisis contributed to a slowdown
of capital inflows to the Region, including Bolivia, while the East Asian crisis resulted in the
deterioration of Bolivia's terms of trade (falling international prices of soybeans and minerals).
Lower prices for mining products affected exports and foreign direct investment (FDI) fell, and
sharp devaluations in neighboring countries, particularly in Brazil, created competitiveness
pressures.   The Government's coca eradication program and the customs reform reduced
commercial activity based on smuggled goods and lowered income levels in the informal sector.
At the same time, there was a sharp reduction in capital inflows (partly relatedto regional trends)
and a sharp and prolonged contraction in bank credit to the private sector. In addition, repeated
episodes of social unrest and political uncertainty have hinderedprivate investment.

13.   Monetary policy has been successful in reducing inflation to single digit levels since
1999 (from 20 percent in the early 1990s), thus contributing to a sustained multilateral real
exchange rate in the face of major devaluations in neighboring countries. Annual inflation
has been in the 1-3 percent range since 1999, falling below the Central Bank's (BCB) publicly
announced targets since 1997, despite a smooth but important acceleration of the rate of crawl.
This outcome reflects a cautious monetary policy, the Government's decision to keep the
boliviano prices of oil derivatives unchanged since mid-2000 and, most importantly, the
sluggishness of the economy. Low inflation at home and the acceleration of the crawl resulted in
a cumulative 37 percent real devaluation of the bilateral real exchange rate of the boliviano to
the U.S. dollar since 1998 to September 2003, but this was insufficient to generate a real
devaluation of the multilateral real exchange rate (which remained stable since mid-1998 -
however, from September 2002 to September 2003 the exchange rate depreciated by 15 percent
in real terms) given major devaluations of the currencies of neighboring countries. The bilateral
real exchange rate has been much less volatile than the consumer price index (CPI), enabling the
persistence o f the high degree of financial dollarization (about 93 percent of bank deposit
contracts are denominated and settled in U.S. dollars).

14.   Interms of fiscal policy, the combined public sector deficit has worsened significantly
in the last two years, reaching 8.9 percent of GDP or 3.9 percent when excluding the
pension-related imbalance in 2002. The deterioration of the fiscal conditions i s attributed to a
host of several factors, including a worsening of the pension imbalance, lower tax revenues,
delays in implementing tax reforms, expectations of further "tax amnesty", the freeze in
domestic fuel prices, and expansions in non-pension fiscal spending giving up to political and
social pressures. As a result, the stock of public sector debt (including domestic debt) jumped to
around pre-HIPC levels, reaching 67.9 percent of GDP in 2002. The share of domestic debt in
total public sector debt rose rapidly to about one-third, partly reflecting the funding of pension
outlays through bond placements with privately administered pension funds. About 95 percent




                                                  4

of the total debt i s dollar-denominated and a rising share i s on non-concessional terms. The
highly dollarized domestic public sector debt reflects efforts to keep cost under contr01.~

15.     The external current account deficit gradually narrowed in recent years, but the
capital account and international reserves have experienced significant and sudden
pressures. From a peak of 8 percent of GDP in 1997-98, Bolivia's current account deficit
narrowed to 4 percent in 2002, which i s covered by strong FDIinflows. However, sudden stops
in the flow of private non-FDI capital inflows, particularly in 1997, 1999, and 2002 (and with
FDIprojections for 2003 recently revised downwards drastically by the BCB), associated with
turmoil in international capital markets and with recent major runs on deposits and mutual funds,
have put pressure on the capital account, BCB's international reserves, and the banking system.
International reserves fell from US$1.1billion in 1997 to US$0.9 billion in September 2003.

16. Faced with this challenging macroeconomic environment, the Bolivian authorities
requested the IMF for a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA), approved in April 2003, to
implement a program to stabilize the economic situation and lay the basis for sustained
economic growth and poverty reduction. The core elements of the economic program are
fiscal consolidation, strengthening of the banking and corporate sectors, and protecting and
making more efficient social safety net spending. The Second review of the Agreement took
place in October 2003 finding the program to be broadly on track, thus enabling the release of a
disbursement of about US$15 million.             `  This brings total disbursements under the program to
about US$92 million. A ThirdReview i s currently in progress.

        C.       Financial and Corporate Vulnerabilities, and the Government's Response

17. The current macroeconomic difficulties coupled with high financial dollarization are
adversely interacting with the ongoing vulnerabilities in the financial and corporate
sectors. The economic recession and major devaluations in neighboring trading partners are
squeezing the profitability of the Bolivian corporate sector. Lower profitability combined with
expectations of corporate bailouts i s leading to higher non-performing loans (NPLs).~In these
conditions, banks are more cautious to lend and have increased lending interest rates (due to
capital and provisioning needs), hampering output recovery. The reduction in corporations'
capacity to service their debts augurs further bank loan quality decay. In response, banks prefer
to invest in Government securities and other liquid assets instead of lending to the private sector.
Political turmoil and social unrest since mid-2002 have heightened depositor anxiety, which may
be worsened by worries about bank solvency.                  Also, because of the high levels of dollar-
denominated debt taken by non-dollar earners, loan portfolio quality and bank solvency depend
not only on a recovery in economic activity, but also in the path of the bilateral exchange rate.
Devaluation in the bilateral real exchange rate leads to a significant rise in NPLs (directly


  I n order to discourage further dollarization, Supreme Decree 26390 created the UFV (Unidad de Fomento de la
Vivienda), a unit of account indexed to the CPI and, thus, aimed at maintaining the real value of contracts in
bolivianos. Law 2434 of December 2002 required all taxes, pensions, and social security contributions to be paid in
UFV. The Government has begun issuing UFV-denominated securities.
`See   Annex XV. The authorities have also reiterated their intention to seek support under the IMF's Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) during the first half of 2004.
7NPLs are defined as gross loans overdue by more than 30 days, and loans injudicial execution.



                                                         5

through an adverse impact on the solvency of debtors in the non-tradable sector, and indirectly
via an adverse short-run impact on GDP growth).

18. The vulnerabilities in the banking and corporate sectors demand an integrated
strategy for systemic restructuring-one that addresses these weaknesses comprehensively
and simultaneously. The earlier approach to corporate and banking restructuring, which
focused on Government sponsored debtor-relief schemes supported by prudential norm
relaxation, has proven insufficient and has created perverse incentives. Government-sponsored
debt rescheduling programs (together with inadequate legal and institutional frameworks for
corporate restructuring) have not induced corporations to undertake operational restructuring.
Instead, they have fed expectations of corporate bailouts, weakening debtor willingness to pay
and raising the risk of corporate asset stripping. This explains in part the rise in NPLs. The
relaxation of prudential norms since 2000 delayed corrective action on troubled banks, raising
incentives for troubled bankers to take on excessive risks and strip assets.

19. The Government has thus moved towards a systemic approach to bank and corporate
restructuring, including legal, regulatory and institutional reforms. The Government i s
committed to implementing a comprehensive and cohesive BCRP, with support from the Bank
and other IFIs, essential to realign incentives and set into motion a process where: (i)viable
banks participate in the restructuring of troubled but viable corporations that make the needed
efforts to restore their financial health, (ii)troubled but viable banks restructure and regain
medium-term profitability; and (iii)unviable banks and corporations exit the system in an
orderly manner. Congress recently approved legal, regulatory and institutional reforms that have
improved system readiness to handle bank and corporate restructuring, with more reforms in
progress. Major improvements in the bank legal, regulatory, and institutional frameworks have
outpaced more modest improvements in corporate restructuring. However, Government efforts
are underway to address both aspects in an integrated fashion. Systemic bank and corporate
restructuring i s a complex process, likely to span over several years, but that i s necessary to
enable sustainable economic recovery. Through strengthening of the financial and corporate
sectors, Government efforts are expected to reduce systemic risks lowering the probability of
recurrent crises in the future while enabling a restart of prudent lending to the private sector, thus
contributing to growth and employment creation.

20. The following sections are organized as follows: Section I1examines (a) the repeated
crises in Bolivia and the Government responses, (b) the structure, trend, and indicators of the
financial sector and of (c) the corporate sector, (d) linkages of the banking and corporate sectors,
and (e) issues related to the institutional, legal and regulatory frameworks. Section I11discusses
the components of the ongoing Government's strategy in these sectors, being supported by this
operation. Section IV explores the Bank's assistance strategy within the framework of the new
CAS being presented to the Board together with this Loadcredit, in the context of an integrated
effort in coordination with the IADB, CAF, and the IMF. Section V discusses the proposed
Loadcredit.




                                                   6

        11. CHALLENGES INTHE FINANCIAL AND CORPORATE SECTORS

                   A.     Past Financial Crises and Government Responses

21.    Over the last fifteen years, Bolivia's banking system has been through a series of
crises, resulting chiefly from weak management and supervision of banks. Banking crises
seem to be a recurrent problem in Bolivia. A large-scale banking crisis started at the end of the
1980s, when a large number of banks faced significant solvency problems. Five banks were
closed in 1987/88 and another one in 1991. Triggered by significant deposit runs, a new banking
crisis developed in 1994 resulting in the closure of two banks. In 1996/97, another episode of
deposit runs threatened the banking system again, requiringthe intervention of two banks, one of
which was closed and the other was sold to a foreign bank. A similar event occurred in 1998,
when foreign banks acquired three banks after deposit runs depleted them. Finally, in 1999,
another bank was intervened and sold to a foreign bank. Intotal, nine banks were intervenedand
closed over the last fifteen years, and five were sold to foreign banks, leaving Bolivia with
eleven banks, five of which are foreign. The main reasons behind these crises are an excessive
and imprudent credit growth and exorbitant connected lending, product of lack of proper
governance, management and control systems in banks, and failure of the supervisory function.

22.   Partly in response to these crises, the Government has taken measures to strengthen
its financial sector, enacting a new Banking Law and a series of regulations and statutory
requirements that have improved the solvency and efficiency of Bolivian banks. The
Superintendencia de Buncos y Entidudes Financierus (SBEF) has passed important new
regulations, aimed at strengthening banks and enhancing supervision. As a result of new capital
rules, banks' capital more than doubled between 1995 and 2000, from US$235 million to
US$495 million. Specific regulations further improved the treatment of micro-credit operations
and consumer loans, subordinated debt and the evaluation of loan portfolios. These regulatory
reforms were reinforced by the influence of foreign banks, in particular Sunta Cruz (Santunder)
whose modern credit risk assessment systems and procedures were soon copied by most Bolivian
banks.    As for banlung supervision improvements, they consisted of new risk-oriented
supervision and enhanced supervisory powers enabling a closer supervision of problem banks at
an early stage.     The SBEF also enhanced disclosure requirements, including quarterly
assessmentsof financial institutions by rating agencies.

23.   In general, the reforms have significantly improved the capacity of banks to
withstand deposit runs and of banking authorities to manage them. With improved liquidity
management, several banks were able to withstand the last deposit runs (in July 2002, February
2003, and October 2003, mostly driven by political instability and uncertainty) without drawing
on the liquidity window of the BCB. In the last 15 years, the SBEF has intervened and closed
several banks increasing efficiency and credibility, including a small Savings and Loans (S&L)
in May 2003 usingthe recently modernized legal framework for bank resolution. Furthermore,
the BCB has provided adequate liquidity to the system to efficiently control the last deposit runs.

24.   The reforms notwithstanding, the current crisis has deeply affected the banking
sector. As explained earlier, the current crisis originates chiefly from recurrent adverse external
shocks that precipitated a fall in internal demand and exports. This led to lower corporate
revenues, and left corporate balance sheets with high levels of unproductive assets, over-



                                                 7

indebtedness, and frequent currency mismatches. Because of its large exposure to the corporate
sector, the banking sector was in turn deeply affected by the crisis, in particular some banks
which, during the boom of the early 1990s, had extended loans based on weak credit risk
assessments and procedures. In 1998, some new regulations addressed these fragilities by
requiring improved credit risk assessment techniques and procedures to be implemented by all
banks, but they came intoo late to prevent the massive dormant bad loan problem to surface.

25.     Lessons from experience in handling past crises are incorporated in the current
Government's program, supported by the proposed LoadCredit, to address the ongoing
crisis. CAS Section V and Annex G offer lessons from the World Bank's broad experiences
over the previous CAS period. Several lessons derived from Bolivia's experience in dealing with
banking and corporate sector vulnerabilities are summarized in Box 1. As past experience in
Bolivia shows, partial banlung sector reforms isolated from corporate sector reforms are
insufficient. Reforms need to (i)encompass a comprehensive range of regulatory and legal
issues, (ii)address simultaneously problems in the banking and in the corporate sectors,
(iii) the stock and flow problems of each sector, (iv) include adequate incentives and
      tackle
threats to induce desired behaviors, and (v) strengthen the corporate sector, making it more
robust to external shocks.

Box 1.          Bolivia's exposure to fragilities and recurrent crises: Lessons learned

          Banking reforms are insufficient to prevent banking crises if they fail to adequately tackle the
   existing stock of problem loans. The progress made over the last decade in improving bank regulation was
   substantial. The reforms succeeded in strengthening the solvency of Bolivian banks. They also established
   modern cash flow based credit risk assessment criteria, as well as risk-based provisioning requirements.
   However, these reforms of credit processes came in after several long years of massive, imprudent, credit
   decisions. As a result, they only applied to the flow of new credits, without sufficient accompanying measures
   to recognize and then deal with the large stock of dormant problem loans. Also, the new regulations included
   grand fathering provisions for loan losses, which enabled banks to slowly -but insufficiently- increase their
   provision coverage of bad loans.
          Inter-linkages between bank and corporate sector cannot be ignored. The focus of reforms in
   Bolivia has been either on the banking sector or on the corporate sector separately,8 without recognizing the
   numerous inter-linkages between them. Nonetheless, the health of the banking sector is contingent upon the
   health of its clients. In particular, the reforms failed to incorporate some major corporate risks in credit
   decisions, such as that of borrower currency mismatch and over-leveraging, as well as outdated technologies
   and weak management skills.        Therefore, even if the quality of new loans improved, they remained highly
   exposed to some specific corporate sector problems.        These weaknesses, fueled further by patronage and
   clientelism, are at the origin of numerous poor credit decisions.
          Reforms of prudential regulations need to be underpinned by an adequate legal framework and
   appropriate incentives. The new regulations imposed stricter provisioning and write-off rules for delinquent
   loans. However, banks were often incapable of adequately pursuing bad debtors because o f the absence of legal
   framework for informal workouts and the inefficiency of that for corporate bankruptcies.           In addition,
   expectations that the Government would bail out bad debtors created negative incentives, discouraging prompt
   repayments. Finally, insufficient legal threat to failing banks induced substantial moral hazard on their part,
   which translated into further dangerous credit decisions.




   Reforms in the corporate sector have focused for instance on improving SMEs' access to finance, broadening the
client base and range of financial instruments available from the banking sector -see for instance the Private
Enterprise Development Project (2134-BO).



                                                           8

        Financial dollarization creates balance sheet exposuresto real exchange rate changesthat make the
  development of financial markets in local currency desirable. The high degree of dollarization of bank
  deposits forces banks to lend in dollars if they do not want to hold large foreign exchange positions. However,
  as most borrowers earn bolivianos (and the BCB cannot supply enough dollars at a reasonable exchange rate),
  banks are indirectly exposed to exchange rate movements. In addition to increasing credit risks, currency
  mismatches in corporate balance sheets also limit the effectiveness of using the exchange rate as a shock
  absorber facilitating the resolution of a crisis. Seeking further use of the Boliviano falls outside the scope of
  this project, but regulation to adequately account for foreign exchange risk in credit decisions will be
  encouraped.
                      B.       Structure and Performance of the FinancialSector

26.   Bolivia is characterized by a low level of financial depth and dominated by deposit
taking institutions. Inpercentage of GDP, banking system assets peaked at 68 percent in 1999,
but fell continuously to 53 percent in 2002, a low level of financial depth relative to other
countries of similar economic size in the region. The decline has been a result of both the
expansion of mutual funds, pension funds, and insurance companies, and the contraction of
banks' balance sheets. As of September 2002, the financial system's assets were held as follows:
46 percent by banks, 10 percent by other deposit-taking institutions -mutual banks, cooperatives,
and financial companies (FFPs) -, 6 percent by mutual funds, 32 percent by pension funds
(mainly SAFIs), 4 percent by insurance companies, and 2 percent by brokerage houses.

27.   The commercial banking system is highly concentrated.                               The banking system,
excluding BancoSol which specializes in microfinance, i s made of eleven banks, of which five
are foreign-owned. Consolidation in the last few years has increased concentration. The largest
three banks (all domestic) account for 49 percent of total deposits and 50 percent of total loans,
and the largest five for 76 percent of total deposits and 73 percent of total loans. Foreign banks
account for 32 percent of total deposits and 26 percent of total loans. Bank ownership i s also
concentrated. Reflecting a highly uneven income and wealth distribution, deposit ownership i s
highly concentrated too-about          50 percent of deposits are in accounts of more than US$lOO,OOO
(100 times per capita income), which represent only about 1 percent of the total number of
deposit accounts. Most Bolivian-owned banks are part of financial conglomerates that typically
include a mutual fund administrator, a brokerage house, and an insurance company.

28.   A hallmark of Bolivia's banking system is its extremely high degree of dollarization.
About 93 percent of bank deposit contracts are denominated and settled in U S dollars. Local
currency deposits are held mostly for transaction purposes, which translate into a higher
proportion of sight deposits in bolivianos, compared to time deposits. While 80 percent of
demand deposits are in dollars, the comparable shares for passbook savings and time deposits are
95 and 99 percent respectively. In order not to hold open foreign exchange positions (which are
limited by regulation), banks lend mostly in U.S. dollars-with                    only 3 percent of their loans
denominated in bolivianos.

29.   The contraction in the bank loan portfolio that began in early-1999 has been
particularly sharp and prolonged. After several years of rapid growth, the loan portfolio
contracted by 37 percent from end-1998 to end-2002. This reflected demand and supply factors.
Four years of economic stagnation and the uncertainty regarding economic prospects in the
country and the region dampened credit demand. Credit supply contracted from the perception
that credit risk had increased due to economic and political factors, and because banks' lending



                                                          9

capacity decreased. Additional reasons include the application of stricter loan policies, the
introduction of stricter loan classification and provisioning regulations in January 1999, and
problems with the corporate insolvency system.

30.    Deposits started a downward trend in late-2000 and have been highly volatile ever
since, includingthe impact of three major runs. Deposits started to fall in late 2000 reflecting
an erosion of confidence. Three major runs on bank deposits and mutual funds, mainly fueled by
political uncertainty and social unrest, followed this decline. The first started before the June
2002 elections and lasted until the new Government coalition was announced in August 2002,
resulting in a cumulative loss of 14 percent of bank deposits, a 26 percent loss of S&L deposits,
and a 50 percent withdrawal from mutual funds. The second episode, during the few days of
intense social unrest in February 2003, resulted in a 5 percent fall in deposits. The third run took
place in October 2003 with a similar fall in deposits as in the second run, due to the political
instability that lead to the forced resignation of President Sinchez de Lozada. All three runs
were controlled efficiently by the rapid provision of liquidity by the central bank; the last run
reverted the recovery in deposits from the previous two runs achieved by September, but
deposits have not continued on a downward trend.

31.    Loan quality has deteriorated sharply, leading to a rapid rise in capital at risk9
despite efforts to increase provisions. The level of NPLs started to increase rapidly in 1999,
from an average of 5 percent of total gross loans at the end of 1998 to 20 percent at the end of
2002. This stems directly from the weakening in both borrowers' capacity and willingness to
pay. Domestic banks made substantial efforts to increase the coverage level of NPLs, following
stricter prudential norms that increased loan provisioning requirements, as well as market
pressure from foreign banks. Provisions increased from an average of 33 percent of NPLs at the
end of 1998 to about 53 percent in September 2000, subsequently stabilizing at a lower level of
around 50 percent. However, the constitution of new provisions could hardly keep up with the
rapid rise in NPLs, despite a series of PresidentialDecrees (starting in October 2000) that relaxed
loan classification and provisioning regulations. As a result, capital at risk in the banking system
rose from its lowest level of 17 percent in December 1998 to 46 percent at the end of 2002,
although this average hides significant variation across banks. A new Presidential Decree issued
at the end of 2002 set a deadline of March 2003 to most of the earlier relaxation of prudential
rules, leading to an increase of provisions (in anticipation of the deadline) to 64 percent of NPLs.

32.   Rising loan-loss provisions have drastically eroded banking system profitability in
recent years, despite a sustained and remarkable improvement in banks' operational
efficiency. Over the last 6 years, banks made serious and successful strides to improve their
operational efficiency, partly spurred by higher prudential standards introduced by the SBEF
since the second half of the 1990s. There was a one-third reduction in the number of banks' staff
since 1999, which more than compensated for the fall in banking activity so that productivity
indicators improved markedly.                 However, these gains were overwhelmed by the need to
constitute new loan loss provisions. Profits after provisions for the banking system as a whole
vanished after 1998, with significant losses registered in 2000-2001 and virtually zero profits in
2002. Over the last five years, most banks recorded one or more years of losses, resulting mainly
from their high provisioning charges. In order to absorb such high levels of losses, three banks


 Capital at risk i s defined as the ratio of N P L s net of provisions to capital.



                                                               10

benefited in 2000 from substantial Government capital support to maintain their solvency above
a CAR of 10 percent, channeled in the form of qualifying subordinated debt (to a development
bank, NAFIBO), under the Government-fundedbank recapitalization program (PROFOP).

33.    Systemic liquidity is high but vulnerable to financial dollarization, concentration and
volatility of deposits.          Systemic liquidity i s high by international standards,"              but high
concentration of deposits significantly increases the risk of a systemic liquidity squeeze. Banks
have a rising share of deposits invested in securities and mainly (high-yielding) Government
bonds, which improves their ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets (CAR) since it carries zero
risk weight. However, the liquidassets held by the banking system (securities, cash invault, and
mandatory reserves held abroad) rose to 34 percent of deposits by end-2002 hitting profitability.

34.    At end-2002, while all banks reported a CAR in excess of the regulatory minimumof
10 percent, there are concerns about the robustness of capital adequacy in weaker banks.
First,for a few banks representing about one third of bank deposits, a large share of their capital
i s accounted for by "subordinated" debt, but under PROFOP regulations, NAFIBO can
accelerate its repayment if it considers that the debtor bank i s loosing payment capacity. Second,
a sequence of Presidential Decrees since 2000 relaxed prudential norms-particularly                         loan
classification and provisioning rules-in         an effort to provide relief to debtors and banks, given
the deterioration in the macroeconomic environment. As a result, bank capital and loan quality
are likely to be overstated. Third, capital adequacy in some banks may be further overstated to
the extent that Government-sponsored debt restructuring schemes have led to unwarranted
upward reclassifications of loans and, hence, excessive release of provisions. Fourth, the fact
that bank exposures towards the Government have a zero risk weight biases the CAR.

35.    Recent stress tests showed a duality among banks regarding strength to withstand
further solvency shocks. A group of banks appears to have the balance sheet strength and
profit-generation capacity to withstand further shocks -including                       additional significant
increases in NPLs. However, a smaller set o f banks would face increasing challenges to absorb
additional major stress. The solvency and profitability of the second group o f banks are sensitive
to additional increases in NPLs and to reductions in intermediationmargins.

                     C.       Structure and Performance of the Corporate Sector

36.    The corporate sector is segmented and predominantly family-owned. Segmentation i s
reflected in sharp contrast between the handful of very large companies in the natural resource
(hydrocarbons and mining) and infrastructure (telecom) sectors, and the rest of firms. Firms
from the former category typically have sound management, tend to be at least in part foreign
owned, and are well integrated into international financial markets. Those from the latter are
normally family-owned and managed by their owners and finance themselves from retained
earnings and domestic borrowing. Within the latter, the medium-size and larger ones have better
access to bank finance.




lo Liquid international reserves of the BCB plus dollar cash held in vault by banks plus the RAL fund -stood   at
US$670 million in March 2003, covering 28 percent of dollar deposits, a high ratio by Latin American standards.


                                                        11

37.       Large companies generate the biggest part of GDP and dominate exports, while
micro enterprises are the largest generators of employment. In 2001, large companies
contributed 65 percent of GDP, while microenterprises accounted for 26 percent of GDP. Except
for Bolivia's telecom and airport companies (and very few large manufacturing firms), large
f i r m s are primarily exploiters of natural resources and are not large employment creators. Large
companies account for just 9 percent of formal sector employment, while micro enterprises
account for 83 percent of employment and 96 percent of rural employment. Small and medium
companies had a small contribution to both GDP and employment (of 3 to 5 percent).

38.       Information on the corporate sector is scarce, preventing meaningful credit analysis
by banks. The Commercial Code lays down minimum requirements on how companies should
maintain their books of account. However, many small businesses in Bolivia currently do not
comply with most of the statutory requirements as no sanctions are imposed. Bolivia does not
have a standard charter of accounts, nor a standardized accounting format for non-financial
companies. Also, although accounting principles require consolidated accounts, these are not
required by the authorities and consequently seldom prepared. Inadequate transparency and
corporate information prevents adequate credit analysis, and generates a significant level of
mistrust among bankers, vis-&vis entrepreneurs. Also, due to tax avoidance tactics, it is likely
that published financial statements do not reflect the true financial condition of non-listed private
companies.

39.       Informality further implies that companies find it nearly impossible to access
financing, except from microfinance institutions. Before the crisis, banks tended to take a
lenient look at registration, lending to informal companies, often on the basis of unreliable
accounts. Nowadays banks tend to require registration and the submission of the company's
balance sheets prior to approving any lending request. Although the privatization -since June
2001- of the commercial registration of companies to the privately managed Fundempresa was
expected to increase efficiency and effectiveness to users and in the long-term reduce the costs
associated with the registration process, such welcomed results have yet to materialize.
Furthermore, inadequate transparency contributes to an underdeveloped capital market for
corporate financing. Bolivia's capital market i s characterized by a low number of transactions,
few participants, and mainly short-term transactions. Only around a dozen firms have issued
securities in the local securities markets. Corporate bonds issuances and trading levels have been
limited, while the equity market is almost non-existent.

40.      Since late 1998, corporate debtors have been under growing stress, exposing deep-
seated vulnerabilities, in part incubated during the prior period of buoyancy. In the years
through 1998, plentiful credit at home and overvalued currencies in neighboring countries
allowed a rapid expansion of domestic business activity while masking underlying productivity
problems (mainly associated with high costs and deficiencies in management quality and
technology). At the same time, banks' own lending practices and regulatory loan classification
and provisioning rules in effect through 1998 fostered undue reliance on fixed (mainly real
estate) assets as collateral, often unrelated to the business in question, which was further
encouraged by overvalued asset prices.l1This accentuated the corporate balance sheet rigidities


    Prior to the change in credit regulation in 1998-1999, most loans were made on the basis of collateral, encouraged
by the inefficient registration system for movable assets and for pledges registry. A perverse incentive was created


                                                           12

and weaknesses underlying the credit boom. The bonanza came to a stop, particularly following
the Russian crisis in the fall of 1998 and the ensuing deterioration of the macroeconomic and
financial environment.        As a result, corporate sales plummeted (anecdotally by a cumulative
average of 30-50 percent), particularly in the import competing and non-tradable sectors.

41.    From 2000-2002, the level of NPLs nearly doubled for all sectors, regions, and sizes of
loans and it has seen the strongest increase among large debtors, continuing to increase
since then. The impact of the crisis reduced the ability of the enterprises to service their debt.
The incidence of NPLs has increased consistently, despite the relaxation of loan provisioning
rules introduced by the SBEF. This phenomenon i s spread out to the whole country and
particularly in the three largest business centers of the country, Santa Cruz, L a Paz, and
Cochabamba. In volume, troubled loans are concentrated among a limited number of very large
borrowers, although the incidence of problem loans i s similar across all sizes of loans. A very
high growth of problem loans among large debtors is noticeable, as they were once considered a
safer option than small debtors.

42.    Corporations have adjusted by de-levering and reducing costs, but operational
restructuring has been insufficient to offset the implosion in their sales and profits.
Leverage among large debtor corporations fell from 1.5 times in 1998 to 1.0 time in 2001,
reflecting the banks' pullout from lending and various Government-sponsored debt restructuring
programs. Also, firms have significantly adjusted their costs downward, in line with the fall in
revenues. However, firms have been unable to increase productivity enough to dampen the
pronounced decline in profits. In addition, turnover (the ratio of sales to assets) has fallen
sharply, reflecting not just the sharp fall in sales but also the absence of significant progress in
recomposing the firms' asset structure. While de-leveraging and Government-sponsored debt
reprogramming have provided some relief in debt service, this relief was more than offset by
dwindling revenues and deteriorating cash flows.


                           D.        Bankingand Corporate Sector Linkages

43.    Unless effectively addressed within a context of a comprehensive integrated BCRP,
the deep-seated problems in the corporate sector will continue to undermine banking
soundness. Corporate restructuring has been lagging bank restructuring. Shrinking corporate
cash flows have been driving the seemingly unyielding rise in banks' NPLs. They also explain
the recent buildup of corporate arrears with respect to tax obligations. Some of the weakest
banks are highly exposed to troubled debtors, and the clustering of bad debtors in the books of
some of the weaker banks i s likely to intensify in the future in the absence of prompt corrective
action.

44.    Problems with corporate insolvency proceedings, combined with changes in the
regulatory treatment of repossessed collateral, magnify credit contraction and corporate
stress. Since secured creditor claims have a lower priority than the claims of workers and the
State,'* the value of collateral could fall drastically during bankruptcy procedures. Therefore, a


for companies to buy assets for access to capital, explaining in part their high level of unproductive assets today.
Bolivia's largest companies were an exception to this trend.
'* InBolivia, most corporate loans are secured by immovable collateral (real estate).



                                                         13

secured creditor has incentives to accelerate the execution of the collateral, rather than
restructure its claim or extend new credit. This incentive sharply increased by changes in the
prudential treatment of repossessed assets. Prior to March 2003, intermediaries had eight years
to fully provision the repossessedreal estate collateral. After March 2003, they were given only
two years. As a result, financial institutions tended to rush to execute guarantees and repossess
collateral before end-March 2003, which intensified corporate stress and prevented further
corporate restructuring agreements under the existing legal framework.                       This has led to an
unnecessary destruction of value andjobs.

45.     Corporations' capacity to adjust has been hampered by a host of factors, including:
(i)rigidities in corporate balance sheets (excess of non-productive, fixed assets; burdensome
debts); (ii)deep-seated operational inefficiencies (outdated technology; shortages in managerial
talent); (iii)shortcomings in the legal and institutional framework for corporate bankruptcy and
reorganization; and (iv) lack of liquid markets for assets. Corporations' willingness to adjust
has been undermined by expectations of bailouts (fed by recurrent Government-sponsored
corporate debt restructuring schemes) and governance problems, typical of closed family owned
and managed firms.

46.     Unlike with bank restructuring, Bolivia has little experience in corporate
restructuring. Knowledge and techniques of bank restructuring are well known within Bolivia
and the Region and the SBEF has gathered experience in their use. In contrast, corporate
restructuring i s a new phenomenon which requires new legislation as well as the development of
new supporting infrastructure, including: (i)an "informal, voluntary" workout law; (ii)the
establishment and staffing of the Superintendency of (non-financial) Enterprises (SE); (iii)                      the
selection and training of sindicos (to overview processes); (iv) a more vigorous due diligence
process with respect to corporations undergoing restructuring; and (v) the design and formation
of corporate restructuring funds to provide fresh money to properly restructured corporations.

47.     Additional time will be needed to fine-tune the incentives for both banks and
corporations to engage in meaningful restructuring.                        Close monitoring of the process
(including through support from IFIs) will be required to ensure that it i s working as intended.
Additional incentives may need to be designed to overcome identified obstacles, with one area of
particular concern being the present lack of a more formal "London Approach" to boost the
corporate restructuring process.l3

             E.       Issues with the Institutional, Legal, and Regulatory Frameworks

Legal Foundations for FinancialSector Regulation
48.     The basic legislation that allocates financial sector regulatory powers has been
unstable over the years (See Annex 111). Since 1987, when the SBEF was created as an
autonomous entity, the powers to regulate the financial system have shifted among institutions at
least four times, although powers to inspect financial institutions have remained with the SBEF.


l3 Initially designed by the Bank of England in the 1970s and further augmented in the 199Os, the "London
Approach" i s a set of non-binding principles guiding the corporate debt restructuring process. I t encourages lenders
to use an out-of-court workout, rather than subject the company to a formal insolvency process such as receivership.
Its main strengths are flexibility and adaptability.



                                                          14

Powers to regulate financial institutions have shifted from the BCB, to the SBEF, to the
Committee of Prudential Norms (CONFIP), and to the Executive.                               In the process, the
organizational arrangements for prudential oversight have also mutated, as new regulatory,
coordinating, and appeal institutions (such as the CONFIP; the newly created System for
Financial Sector Regulation, SIREFI; and the Superintendency of Administrative Appeals, SRJ)
were created but lasted only a few years before being abolished.

49.     Amendments introduced in late-2002 altered the organizational arrangements for
financial sector regulation and supervision. The "Bonosol Law" eliminated the SRJ and
CONFIP and re-established the SIREFI system, subject to the "tutelage" (tuicidn) of the
Executive Branch, and headed by a General Superintendent appointed by the President. The
SIREFI is composed of the SBEF, the SPVS, and the newly created SE. The "Bonosol Law"
also established the National Council for Financial Policies (CONAPFI), with a mandate to
coordinate policies in the banking, financial, securities, pensions, and corporate sector areas, and
make non-binding proposals of general regulations for these sectors to the President of the
Republic. The CONAPFI members includedpolitical appointees from the Executive Branch.

50.     These organizational changes, created legal confusion regarding the allocation of
regulatory powers.14 The "Bonosol Law": (i)                 established that the "general" regulations for the
financial system were to be issued via Presidential Decree," although it was unclear whether this
applied to all prudential norms, and (ii)eliminated the CONFIP and re-established appropriate
mechanisms within SIREFI to ensure consistency in prudential regulation across financial sub-
sectors. However, the law failed to explicitly revoke the regulatory powers that were subject to
CONFIP approval, contradicting the Banking Law delegating allocation of functions to the
SBEF in a manner that i s "exclusive and cannot be delegated." A similar inconsistency arose
from the fact that the (special) Banking Law assigns "rectorship" in the prudential oversight of
financial intermediation to the SBEF, whereas the (general) "Bonosol Law" assigned it to the
SIREFI. Thus, the resulting framework emphasized the SBEF's non-shared legal responsibility
to maintain a sound financial system, but it did not adequately match such responsibility with
clear powers and appropriate autonomy. Moreover, the "Bonosol Law" assigned to the General
Superintendent of the SIREFI not only the administrative appeal function (formerly resided with
the SRJ), but also certain powers over the three superintendencies (SBEF, SPVS, and SE),
potentially undermining their operational and budgetary autonomy. l6




l4During the FSAP, extensive discussions took place to address such regulatory and legal contradictions. The lack
of legal clarity, which prevailed until recently, delayed the approval of important regulations, possibly undermined
the authority and standing of the SBEF and SPVS vis-&vis the entities they supervise, likely weakened these
entities' resolve to enforce prudential norms (particularly troublesome under the current conditions of financial
system stress), and raised the risk of systematic and successful challenges of enforcement measures in a court of
law.

l5The practice of changing prudential norms via Presidential Decrees initiated in 2000 was also re-affirmed by the
"Bonosol Law". This appeared inconsistent with the provisions under the Banking Law, and also raised the risk of
undue interference by political and special interest groups in the regulatory process.
  The "Bonosol Law" empowered the General Superintendent to approve the budgets, internal operational norms,
human resource policies, and salary structures of the three superintendencies, and authorized it to approve the
nomination of high-level supervisory staff, audit and evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of supervisory
practices, and take disciplinary action if superintendents failed to fulfill their duties.



                                                           15

 Banks' Prudential Oversight"
 51.    Financial regulation and supervisory practices experienced a notable improvement
 during the 1990s, but there are important regulatory lacunae regarding non-credit risk
 management (See Annex IV). The 1993 Banking Law has been upgraded six times since, with
 a major enhancement of supervisory tools and the addition of prompt corrective action clauses
 and bank resolution mechanisms in December 2001.18 However, there are important regulatory
 lacunae regarding non-credit risk management. Currently, this void i s most important for the
management of liquidity risk vis-&-vis market risk and other risks, although Bolivian banks have
hitherto dealt efficiently with the recent episodes of deposit runs. In addition, there are no capital
charges for market risks and there are no specific regulations requiring banks to define and
implement internal controls adequate to the nature and scale of their risks and scope of
businesses. Hence, even though the SBEF evaluates the effectiveness of controls and risk
management practices in its onsite inspections, it has little leverage to enforce implementation of
its observations. Furthermore, a step back was taken with the relaxation of prudential regulations
by Presidential Decrees since October 2000, which, among other things, undermined the
effectiveness of prompt corrective triggers (see paragraph 57).

52.     The implementation mechanism of a new public sector budget management system
(SIGMA) to the superintendencieshas significantly hampered access to, and use of, their
budgetary funds."           This i s particularly damaging to the flexibility needed for supervisory
enforcement (e.g., bank interventions). Moreover, having the SBEF request authorization from
the Ministry of Finance prior to using funds for the event of a bank intervention, may
compromise confidentiality and speed. Although these problems may reflect mainly transitory
technical glitches, they called for close attention.20

Anti-Money Laundering (AML)
53.    Bolivia has a system to prevent and suppress money laundering that fulfills most of
the 40- FinancialAction Task Force (FATF) recommendationsfor Anti-Money Laundering
and Combatingthe Financingof Terrorism(AMLKFT). It includes mandatory requirements
on the supervised financial, stock exchange, and insurance sectors. However, foreign exchange
houses and money remitters, which are also vulnerable to money laundering, are not included.
Operational results on prevention, detection, and suppression are still modest. Although the
Financial Intelligence Unit (UIF)has been in operation since 1999, it has not been able to carry
onsite inspections-nor       has the SBEF, either.



17 The supervision of the financial system i s entrusted to the SBEF (for bank and other deposit-taking institutions)
and the SPVS (for pension funds, securities and insurance companies). As noted above, these superintendencies,
along with the SE and the Superintendency General (SG), make up the recently created SIREFI.

l8This has been supported by Bank assistance under the Regulatory Reform and Privatization TA Loan (Report No.
17933-B0).

") Background information on the establishment of SIGMA as part of financial accountability arrangements i s
included in the CAS in Section 1V.N.

2oA problem that is more difficult to deal with relates to the decision by Congress in 2002 to cut significantly-and
without a convincing justification-the  SBEF's budget. This raises complex (perhaps even Constitutional) issues,
particularly considering that SBEF's income comes not from general tax revenues but from fees paid by the
regulated financial intermediaries.



                                                          16

CrisisManagement Frameworks
(a)    Lender of Lust Resort (LOLR)
54.    The LOLR facility is well designed and managed in general, although the scope and
nature of its function are affected by financial dollarization. LOLR facilities follow best
international practices in terms of collateral requirements and pricing. However, because most
deposits are denominated and settled in dollars, there i s virtually no scope for money-creating
LOLR, and the BCB's LOLR operations are typically denominated and settled in dollars. This
implies that quantity adjustments dominate in scenarios of systemic deposit outflows. A decline
in aggregate deposits would be associated with similar losses in international reserves and there
would be little room for the BCB to defend its international reserves with policies that aim at
adjusting asset prices. The BCB charges a penalty interest rate for LOLR liquidity to encourage
banks to mobilize their own dollar liquidity before accessing the LOLR window, and to endeavor
to repay the BCB as early as feasible after accessing that window. A devaluation of the national
currency in the midst of a systemic deposit run would be ineffective in defending international
reserves, given that dollar deposits are redeemable in dollars at par (the exchange rate of the
boliviano to the dollar i s not part of the contract). A major devaluation would exacerbate a run
(and the loss of foreign exchange reserves), as dollar depositors would fear bank failures due to
the devaluation's adverse balance sheet effects.

55.    Financial dollarization calls for an especially strong level of liquid international
reserves (or BCB immediate access to external liquidity), complementary to an equally
strong position inbanks' own liquidassets. Although the current ratio of systemic liquidity to
deposits appears relatively high, the volatility of aggregate deposits and their high concentration
militate in favor of further boosting the hard-currency liquidity buffer in the system. The banks'
own hard-currency liquid assets act as the first line of defense, and the authorities do well in
pursuing a policy of relatively high (remunerated) liquid reserve requirements. In the three
recent episodes of deposit runs (June-August 2002, February 2003, and October 2003) the BCB
displayed slull and readiness in meeting banking system liquidity needs (including by raising the
benchmark interest rate and suitably and transitorily amending certain LOLR regulations).21 The
BCB can immediately access about US$190 million in liquidity lines from the Fondo
Latinoamericano de Resewas (FLAR).22 This, together with resources available under the
recently agreed IMF supported SBA, raises the BCB's capacity to confront potential episodes of
deposit outflows in the future, thereby enhancing the deterrence function (against runs) of
international reserves. The added comfort it provides should facilitate dealing with the solvency
problems in the system.

(b)    Troubled Bank Resolution
56.    The legal framework for prompt correction and bank failure resolution is adequately
designed and includes strong legal protection for supervisors. Amendments to the Banking
Law approved in December 2001 (and supported by the Bank's TA) significantly enhanced this
framework. It features triggers for early detection of problems and their prompt correction. The

  However, improvements are needed in the systems (at the BCB and the SBEF) to continuously monitor individual
bank liquidity.

22The BCB has developed and implemented contingency plans to handle liquidity shocks, as tested in the most
recent shock during the political and social unrestof October 2003.



                                                         17

latter entails a time-bound "regularization process" that enables intensified supervision, strong
enforcement measures, and an active search for private sector solutions, including via a merger
or acquisition. The failure to regain viability under regularization (andor other suitable triggers)
can lead to "intervention," which automatically suspends the rights of the bank's shareholders
and allows the SBEF to stop the bank's operations. Under intervention, the SBEF can carry out
Purchase and Assumption (P&A) operations, as illustrated in Annex V.23 Notably, the bank
intervention and resolution processes, as well as actions taken by supervisors in the carrying out
of their duties, are accorded a legal protection that i s remarkably strong (but not yet fully tested)
by Latin American standards.

57.     However, prompt correction has been undermined by the recent relaxation of
prudential norms. Recent Presidential Decrees gave banks options to reduce the amount of
additional loan loss provisions they must constitute, until they were repealed in March 2003.
This has likely led to overestimation of asset values (and hence of bank capital), in turn,
effectively delaying the activation of prompt correction triggers, which could augment the costs
of bank resolution, if required. In addition, the precise application of some triggers for prompt
correction need to be clarified via regulation (and in the case of triggers pertaining to the
reduction of primary capital -article 112a, legal amendments are required, see Section 1II.B.d).

58.     The BCB's unlimited option to bailout depositors and buy bank assets provides a
flexibility that may be useful in managing the current banking stress. However, this also
carries major risks that could in principle be mitigated b y regulation. Per Article 38 of its
charter, the BCB has the option (not the obligation) to stand behind deposits or buy the assets of
a bank, without limit. This legal provision i s consistent with the Bolivian historical tradition that
depositors of failed banks have in general not incurred losses. However, it fosters moral hazard
and, in particular, opens the door for the BCB to be pressured into bailing out notjust depositors
but also non-depositor creditors and even the shareholders of unviable banks.24 An option would
be to limit the scope of Article 38, as an additional tool to facilitate the protection of depositors
under the process of bank resolution, inwhich case special BCB regulations are re~ommended.~'

(c)     Creditor Rights and Corporate Bankruptcy and Reorganization
59.    Deficiencies in the legal framework and weaknesses in the judiciary have prevented
the efficient exit of insolvent corporations (See Annex VIII). The existing legal framework
for corporate insolvency provides for both liquidation ("quiebru") and reorganization ("concur.so
preventivo") but it has virtually never been used.                  Corporate reorganization under formal
proceedings i s severely hindered by the requirement of unanimous approval of a reorganization
plan by privileged creditors (tax, labor, and secured claimants).                  This renders corporate
reorganization practically impossible in most cases, given that in Bolivia almost all the creditors
fall in the class of privileged creditors. As regards bankruptcy, its use i s avoided largely because
it carries a major stigma. The law authorizes judges to issue preventive arrest warrants against


23The P&A framework has recently been put in action with the intervention of an S&L in May 2003-see Section
1II.B.e.

24 Questions about the validity of such universal coverage have been discussed, but a potential reduction of the
extent of coverage (similar to the approach implemented in Mexico during the late 1990s) remains difficult to put
into the immediate agenda due to current unstable political conditions.

25See paragraph 77.


                                                         18

the owners and managers of the bankrupt corporation, a power that judges are perceived to be
too prone to use. In addition, the law establishes a presumption of fraud in all corporate
liquidation cases where liabilities exceed the liquidation value of assets-which     would typically
be the case of most bankruptcies. This stigma associated with liquidation proceedings, in turn,
further deters the use of reorganization proceedings, as the failure to reach agreement under the
latter automatically leads to the former. Corporate insolvency proceedings are also avoided
because of a generalized perception, among both bankers and entrepreneurs, that the judiciary i s
unreliable-as    illustrated by costly and protracted judicial processes and lack of adequate
experience and expertise in corporate matters among judges. The situation i s complicated by a
traditional aversion to voluntary (out of court) creditor-debtor negotiations, which was
exacerbated in recent years by rising antagonism between bank creditors and their debtors. In
sum, non-viable firms do not exit the system in an orderly way. Rather, they either close without
dealing with creditors or remain in operation for an unduly long period (trapping resources that
should be liberated and redirected to more efficient uses). The problems with the corporate
insolvency system increase the risks and costs of lending, hamper credit deepening and, hinder
the reorganization of troubled but viable corporations. The latter constitutes a major obstacle for
the resolution of the present crisis and the reactivation of the economy.

60.    The enforcement of credit contracts is also cumbersome, and deficiencies in.the
registration system prevent the use of movable collateralto secure credit. Although there
are accelerated proceedings ("jjuicios coactivos ") to obtain a judicial sentence relatively quickly
(1-3 months), the repossession of collateral i s lengthy, mainly due to problems with collateral
valuation. For instance, a creditor must pay the debtor half of the appraised value (set by a
judge-appointed third party) of the collateral to keep it in lieu of payment-this   leads to frequent
appeals and disputes of overvalued appraisals. If the collateral i s not sold at the appraised value,
three auctions at 45-day intervals are required, but these are perceivedto be often manipulated by
creditors seeking to acquire the collateral at undervalued prices. The lengthy and cumbersome
process of credit contract enforcement and the highly deficient registration system of property
rights on movable assets (account receivables, inventory, etc.) prevent lending secured by
movables. As a result, banks systematically prefer real estate or other fixed assets as collateral,
credit supply i s substantially lower than otherwise, and the inequality in access to finance i s
exacerbated.


                   111. THE GOVERNMENT'SBANKAND CORPORATE
                                RESTRUCTURINGPROGRAM

                           A.     The Government'sSystemic Approach

61.    The Government is implementinga Bank and Corporate RestructuringProgramto
address the different dimensions of the problem. Figure 1illustrates this systemic approach.
Some of the elements of the Government's BCRP have already been put in place, while others
are underway, or pending implementation. A "Systemic Restructuring Team" at the highest
policy level i s critical to provide strategic direction and coordination of the program, without
undermining the technical integrity of the autonomous supervisory agencies.                 Also, to
complement the analysis of the financial sector undertaken by the SBEF, a deeper analysis of the
corporate sector i s needed to better assess the extent of problems in this sector and its perverse



                                                  19

interactions with banks. Regarding legal and regulatory frameworks, those related to bank
restructuring and resolution have been developed extensively, new legislation for corporate
insolvency to facilitate voluntary, out-of-court corporate restructuring agreements between
debtor firms and their creditors has been passed, and the Government i s committed to revise the
existing insolvency regime.           Enabling mechanisms to support such an ambitious systemic
restructuring process chiefly include supporting funds, both for corporate and bank restructuring,
ensuring that incentives are properly aligned. The BCRP also needs to adhere continuously to
certain basic criteria, so as to limit moral hazard and adverse selection problems, guarantee high
standards of transparency and accountability, ensure that efforts and costs are shared among
stakeholders, and avoid the over-commitment of public funds.


            Figure 1       Systemic Approach to Bank and Corporate Restructuring


                                                                        truc



                                                                          C
         Diagnosis            viable              non-viable              0       viable               non-viable
                                                                          0
                     ~




                     ,   Restructuring                  Exit              R   Restructuring                   Exit
                               plan             y t e r y t i o n         D
                                                                          xI                           (Bankruptcy

                                           Resolution         Judicial    A
                                                            liquidation   T
                                                                          I
                                                                          0
                     ![Hinges on legalclarity on distribution of powers]  N



                                                                          &                                Efficient
          reg.
             -              regime       \     /    framework        1
                                                                          L
                     ~                                                             voluntary             corporate
         Frame                                      (Regulating           E        corporate          bankruptcy    **
         works                                                            G
                                                                          A
                                                                          L .


         Enabling                    FRF, FCB*,                           S          Corporate
                                                                          E
       mechanisms                     art.38 BCB                                  Restructuring
                                                                          C
                                                                          u
                                                                          R
                                                                          I  not yet created.
                          *not yet created.                                   Possibly includingamendments to CC/VWL
                     ~                                                    T  *
                                                                          Y
                                                                         3
      Source: World Bank staff


                  B.        Components of the Ongoing Government's Strategy

62.   The Government's BCRP has a number of interrelated components, selected to
address main vulnerabilities to reduce the probability of future financial crises and obtain
an environment conducive to the resumption of prudent lending to the private sector, with
the associated benefits in terms of output growth and employment generation.                                          The
following elements of the strategy are discussed in detail: (a) organizational arrangements to
manage systemic restructuring; (b) legal clarity on appropriate distribution of regulatory powers;



                                                                20

(c) bank and corporate diagnosis; (d) prudential strengthening and prompt corrective action for
banks; (e) bank resolution framework; (f) legal and institutional framework for corporate
restructuring and bankruptcy; and (g) anti-money laundering.

(a)      Organizational Arrangements to Manage Systemic Restructuring
63. Close coordinationis needed among Government agencies to implement a complex
process of systemic bank and corporate restructuring. Coordination problems increase
sharply at times of crisis. Each agency sees the crisis from its own partial viewpoint, not
necessarily consistent with the broader social interest. Also, as the political costs and legal risks
associated with enforcement actions rise steeply, there i s typically a tendency for individual
agencies to avoid responsibilities and shift the burden of decisions to other agencies. In the
absence of an effective high-level body that provides vision, leadership, political protection, and
coordination, it i s nearly impossible to implement a coherent strategy, overcome obstacles, and
sort out policy dilemmas.               Actions taken by individual agencies can easily become
dysfunctional.26

64.    To this end, the Governmentestablisheda Systemic RestructuringTeam on May 27`h
2003, which has been de facto in place since late April 2003. The SRT ("Comite` del
Programa Fortalecimiento de Empresas y del Sistema Financiero, Ministerial Resolution No
                                                                                  "
264) i s headed by the Minister of Finance, and composed of the President of the Central Bank,
the Superintendent of Banks, the Superintendent of (non-financial) Enterprises, and the Vice
Minister of Financial Services and Corporations. The role of an SRT i s to take strategic and
tactical decisions regarding the Government's BCRP (e.g., on the appropriate use of public
funds; the timing, and sequence of major actions; the choice among alternate plans, etc.), without
micro-managing the process.              A key challenge for the SRT i s to provide direction and
coordination without undermining the technical integrity of the autonomous entities (i.e., BCB,
SBEF, and the recently created SE). The SRT has developed objectives, principles, strategies
and action plans for an integrated systemic restructuring process of banks and corporations

65.    The SRT is committed to adhere to guiding principles for implementation of the
systemic BCRP, agreedamongthe Government,the Bank, andthe IMF. These include:
     Prevent the use of public resources in a way that results in the direct or indirect bailout of
     bank's shareholders. This i s to guarantee that public funds are used as a last resort and,
     hence, avoid the risk that systemic restructuring ends up in an undue socialization of private
     losses. In the process, it i s also crucial to preserve market discipline and incentives for sound
     intermediation in the future;

     Limit the use of public (or publicly guaranteed) resources to undercapitalized but viable
     banks, and support the resolution of non-viable banks, especially through P&A as envisioned
     in the Banking Law.        21   Also, establish a clear ex-ante exit strategy in case of temporary


26For instance, based on evidence in other countries, the supervisory agency may push for the central bank to
provide unbounded liquidity to a "zombie" bank rather than take the risk associated with intervening and closing it.
Or the political sphere may oppose the closing of a bank, while the ministry of finance remains unwilling to absorb
the losses (via debt issuance) associated with keeping the bank open with adequatesolvency.
27Some resort to public funds may be unavoidable in systemic restructuring processes, but it should not endanger
the viability of public sector debt (otherwise it could precipitate a run driven by broader solvency concerns) and
should preserve debtor willingness to pay and other incentives for future lending.



                                                         21

       public ownership of banks to ensure that the Government makes best efforts to reduce the
       period of its ownership and that it puts in place adequate management (including safeguards
       to isolate it from political influence);

       Safeguard the accountability and transparency in the use of public funds by regularly
       reporting to the public and relevant authorities on progress in the implementation of plans for
       bank restructuring.     The accountability framework will clearly lay out the allocation of
       responsibilities and decision-taking authority on all relevant matters of agreed plans;

       Avoid undue delays in taking action on non-viable banks, thus avoiding the risk of increasing
       the fiscal cost of the solution and the loss in asset value, which could fuel runs on deposits
       based on solvencyAiquidity concerns;

       Ensure all approved mergers and acquisition are sound;

       Ensure preparedness to deal with systemic liquidity problems, including through adequate
       contingency plans.

(b)        Legal Clarity on the Appropriate Distribution of Regulatory Powers
66.      The Government dispelled the legal confusion that had been created (chiefly through
the "Bonosol law") regarding appropriate distribution of regulatory powers, through the
Law of Organization of the Executive Branch (Ley de Organizacio'n del Poder Ejecutivo,
LOPE) approved in March 2003 and supporting Supreme Decrees issued in March, May,
August, and October 2003,. The Government has (i)                    reaffirmed the exclusive authority of the
SBEF, in the issuance of prudential norms; (ii)defined the role of the Office of the General
Superintendent (OGS) of SlREFI (e.g., appeal, coordinate, foster best regulatory and supervisory
practices); and (iii)clarified the nature of the interrelations between the Government and the
financial supervisory and regulatory system.                   The Government has also reaffirmed its
commitment to ensuring that the autonomy of the regulatory authority is preserved, regardless of
future institutional changes.

67.      The Government has addressed the remaining operational obstacles to the budgetary
autonomy and use of resources by the SBEF. In December 2003, the authorities took actions
to implement an Interinstitutional Agreement that restores the effective budgetary independence
for the SBEF, while ensuring high standards of transparency and accountability. 28 This seeks to
overcome operational problems including ensuring that confidentiality i s preserved in the event
of an intervention of a financial institution.

(c)        Bank and Corporate Diagnosis
68.      A diagnosis technical team comprising of representatives from the Ministry of
Finance, the Central Bank, and the Superintendency of Banks (with supporting TA from
the Bank) has been engaged since May 2003. This team i s deepening the diagnosis of the


28  The authorities established a mechanism whereby the SBEF submits its quarterly budget to the Ministry of
Finance, which in turn has to make the funds available to the SBEF, depositing the funds in a commercial bank, as
long as the SBEF has available funds in its libretu within the Unified Treasury Account. To ensure this mechanism
i s effective, the MOU incorporates among its covenants that (i) the Ministry of Finance cannot oppose the transfer of
the funds and (ii) the SBEF can request additional money, whenever warranted.



                                                         22

situation of banks, corporate debtors, and the linkages between the two in a coordinated matter.
The main objective is to provide sufficient information to the Government, enabling it to make
informed judgments with respect to the nature and degree of corporate restructuring needed to
enable restoring the long-term health and viability of companies, and its effects on banks'
balance sheets.        This is expected to lead to reduced time and costs of early corporate
restructuring processes increasing their likelihood of success, thus eventually leading to higher
employment and output.            Reports of such work have been discussed at the SRT, based on
analysis of a database recently created, which incorporates newly gathered information on
debtors from various sources (SBEF, Tax authorities, AFPs, BCB, Health authority). A pattern
of debtors across different sectors has been identified already (see Annex VII), which i s being
taken into account in the corporate restructuringprocess.

69.    Although progress has been modest in identifying the size and nature of corporate
problems, the pace has started to improve. There i s limited information on identifying the
features of a large-scale corporate restructuring program and its potential effect on corporations
and banks (specially distressed banks, even if deemed viable).                      However, progress has been
steady since June 2003, as per the work plan developed by the interagency team. An important
component of the plan i s the ongoing analysis of a questionnaire sent to both banks and
corporations to further assess their ability to participate in corporate restructuring. The team has
continued deepening the analysis of the existing data, fine-tuning its findings.                   29Three reports
have been issued to date.           Furthermore, the Government has started to institutionalize the
diagnosis process, to enable quarterly updates and analyses, through Ministry of Finance
directives to relevant institutions to regularize the provision of inputs for the database.

(d)      Prudential Strengthening and Prompt Corrective Actions
70.    The Government has drafted a new regulation for the adequate prudential treatment
of restructured loans. The issue of loan classification and provisioning rules becomes more
relevant in the context of the corporate restructuring program. The Government has developed,
according to guidelines discussed with the Bank's and IMF's technical teams, explicit prudential
policies on how to treat restructured loans, consistent with Bolivia's broad provisioning and
classification rules.      The guidelines chiefly include the following:

     The SBEF has the exclusive responsibility to prepare and issue prudential regulations,
     although it should discuss the broad content with interested parties (or post them in the web
     page for a period of comments).
     The reclassification of loans to lower-risk categories should only proceed after a
     demonstrated period of satisfactory performance (track record), given the great uncertainty
     over the ultimate recovery of the firms being restr~ctured.~'



29This is particularly relevant, given that the response ratio to the survey has been lower than expected, both from
corporations and banks, limiting the applicability of findings for the entire universe of debtors.

30The track record period should be of reasonable length and not be tied to the number of payments per se to avoid,
for example, the case in which the repayment is structured in two small weekly installments early on in the life of
the loan, while the remainder is left for a balloon payment at maturity. B y the same token, a given period of
payment becomes meaningless if there are no significant payments during such period. Thus, the reclassification
requirement should either be a combination of both criteria, including the repayment of a minimum percentage of
the loan (say 15-20percent).



                                                           23

    Also, any haircut to the nominal value of the loans in excess of the specific loan loss
    provision should be accounted as a loss in the bank's income statement. Similarly, if there i s
    a reduction in the interest rate, loan loss provisions should be maintained to reflect the loss in
    the net present value of the loan. Upon payment, the provision could then be reversed (i.e.
    included as an income in the bank's profit and loss account) along with interest payments.
    Consideration should be placed to avoid releasing specific provisions early on, to keep banks
    more interested in ensuring that corporations indeed restructure and start to perform. Thus,
    the latter would be in a better position to make timely repayments and only then the banks
    would see their profit and loss account improve by the release of a specific loan-loss
    provision.
    Once a loan upgrade i s granted, based on effective performance, the associated specific
    provisions could be released in two distinct ways. One i s to require that they be put aside as
    part of the bank's general provisions, and hence be counted as regulatory capital, or,
    alternatively, allow their release into the income statement, but with the condition that the
    incremental profit cannot be distributed as dividends. In these two cases, the bank would
    show a more favorable income statement without weakening its solvency.

71.    The SBEFcontinues implementingitsplanof prudentialupgrading. On July 2003 the
SBEF issued minimum rules for the internal audit and the internal control systems of banks.
During 2004, the SBEF will approve pending regulations, among which the most salient are:
(i)regulations for the supervision of financial conglomerates, upgrading consolidated
supervision; (ii)minimum corporate governance rules for financial institutions, together with
new penalties for breach of laws and regulations; (iii)            rules to help internalize the risk of lending
in dollars to non-dollar earning borrowers (gradually phasing in its application); (iv) stricter
requirements for external auditors, rating agencies, and assets valuation experts; (v) regulation
for market and liquidity risks; and (vi) comprehensive risk management systems. According to
the anticipated sequence of the reforms, the bulk of these rules are expected to be issued by the
third quarters of 2004, with the latter two expected by December 2004 and March 2005,
respectively. Moreover, the Government i s committed to prepare draft regulations to make loan
classification more consistent with international standards towards the end of 2004.

72.    The SBEF has also issued norms and approved manuals (in May, 2003) to fully
enable the corrective actionregime. These implement Articles 112-115 of the Banlung Law to
make prompt corrective actions ("regularization plans") fully ~perational.~~There i s still one
pending legal change to enable full implementation of all the triggers embedded in the law
(related to Article 112a, clarifying bank intervention triggers based on the ratio of losses to
primary capital), expected to be addressed during 2004. Clarifications of other triggers are
expected to be addressed through regulations.

73.   The Government also revised BCB's regulations to ensure that banks under a
regularizationplan have the same access as other banks to BCB liquidity windows. As a
result, it minimized the earlier risk of the regularization process becoming dysfunctional, due to a
reduction in the perception that the process was a one-way roadto bank closure, a perception that
could have induceddeposit runs.


3'Due to the problems discussed in Section ILE, the issuance of this was delayed until after May 6, 2003, until a
Presidential Decree clarified the allocation of powers to issue prudential norms for the financial system.



                                                           24

 74.   The SBEF has issued instructions in October 2003 for the restitutions of capital in
 two banks where shortfalls were identified. Subsequently, both banks called Stockholders'
 Assemblies, prior to the SBEF deadline of end-November 2003. The Assembly held at Banco
 Ganadero (holding a 5 percent market share of total banking sector assets) concluded that
 stockholders were to undertake the full recapitalizationof the bank, which has now been reported
 as completed to the SBEF. However, the Stockholders' Assembly of Banco Unibn (with a
market share of 9 percent) did not support its recapitalization, leading the Government to
implement a plan to ensure the shortfalls are addressed promptly, following SRT principles
agreed with the Bank (see paragraph 65). The ongoing capitalization plan of the Banco Unibn
involves the conversion of PROFOP originated subordinated debt that had been issued by
NAFIBO on behalf of the Government into new shares in the bank, based on an independent due
diligence process, which could potentially give a majority ownership to NAFIB0.32

75.    The Government is committed in its Letter of Sector Development Policy (LSDP) to
ensure that for the capitalization plan inprogress: (i)                an independent due diligence process i s
promptly completed; (ii)shareholders' capital i s subsequently adjusted; (iii)a new Board of
Directors i s elected; (iv) a business plan for the next two years i s presented, and (v) an ex-ante
strategy for divesting the temporary participation of NAFIBO i s effectively completed. These
steps seek to ensure that losses are allocated first to shareholders involved in the risluer activities
leading to such losses, while enabling a transparent process.                          The Government has also
committed in its LSDP (Annex 11) to ensure the full capitalization of banks that were to be
identified to have capital shortfalls (via recapitalization or resolution through Article 120 of the
Banking Law), following SRT agreed upon principles.

(e)     Bank Resolution Framework
76.    On April 30,2003, the SBEF approved manuals for the bank resolution mechanisms,
as per Article 120 of the Banking Law.33The authorities have already put this tool to effective
use with the intervention of a small S&L, "Mutual La Frontera" (going beyond fire drills
suggested during the earlier stages of the preparation of this Loadcredit by the Bank team in
order to test system readiness). An analysis of the resolution of "La Frontera" indicates that, in
general, the legal and regulatory framework for the "Resolution Process" (the solution process as
per Article 120 of the Banking Law (P&A)) i s applied effectively, at least for a small institution.
The authorities exhibited readiness and coordination to implement effectively a suitable P&A,
while achieving their main objective of transferring deposits to another institution over a
weekend, therefore avoiding a systemic or regional deposit run. The SBEF's assessment of the
lessons learned i s already providing some valuable experiences to further improve established
procedures and mechanisms (together with recommendation provided by the Bank). Among the
recommendations already in progress, an important one i s the SBEF's drafting of the criteria for
selecting potential buyers in a P&A process, since weak banks should not be eligible for
purchasing other troubled banks. This i s expected to be in place in the next few weeks.


32The Government's instruction to NAFIBO to undertake a conversion of its subordinated debt into ordinary capital
was largely driven by the authorities' consideration of the difficult social and political situation in the country at this
time, and the recent episode of bank runs. Inaddition, the authorities found the alternative of calling for cessation of
payments as a reason for intervention and resolution of the bank potentially open to legal challenges.

33 These regulations were drafted early on, but their approval was delayed partly because of the previously
mentioned lack of clarity inthe allocation of regulatory powers that prevailed untilrecently.



                                                          25

77.    The recent intervention of an S&L also enabled authorities to clarify the status of the
Fondo de Restructuracidn Financiera (FRF) and the BCB regarding the use of Article 38 of
the BCB Law, at least for non-bank institutions. In the case of the S&L "La Frontera",
depositors' coverage was provided through the provision of Government funds via the BCB,
since the FRF (which provides funds to enable the coverage of protected depositors during
resolution processes of insolvent bank) was not operational yet. The Bank's technical team had
in fact recommended that the BCB would only resort to Article 38 and use its funds to cover
depositors in the case of a bank under the resolution to the extent described in the Banking Law.
However, in the context of the intervention of "Mutual La Frontera" in May, the Government
issued Supreme Decree 27025, authorizing the BCB to provide additional support for the
intervention of non-bank financial institutions, on behalf of the Government (i.e. not through Art.
38 of the BCB Law), to cover the intervention costs and liquidity gaps, enabling P&A when the
intervened institution has insufficient funds. The authorization was not granted, however, for
banks, but targeted to the particular circumstances introduced by the FEREprogram that resulted
in the prevalence of undercapitalized S&L in the system, until the period to participate in the
FERE program expires in Mid-2004.34 In this context, the Government is committed to further
clarify the functions and responsibilities of FRFduring 2004.

78.
tool to support restructuring and resolution processes of financial institution^.^^
       The Government will create a Fondo de Apoyo del Sistema Financier0 (FASF) as a
                                                                                                           FASF's
role will be, as described in Annex VI, to support: (i) processes as per Article 120 of the
                                                                   P&A
Banking Law, by providing financing for viable financial institutions as an incentive to assume
deposits of failed financial institutions backed by performing assets, (ii)financial institutions
mergers and/or acquisitions (subject to SBEF approval), by assisting in a merger process or in
acquiring financial institutions to purchase smaller financial institutions, and (iii) corporate     the
restructuring process by providing financing at attractive rates to correct capital deficiencies
(arising by the process) to weak but viable financial institutions. The FASF will be created as a
trust fund, obtaining resources from the Ministry of Finance, and through the recuperation of the
loans and/or sale of instruments acquired in its operations. The FASF will issue subordinated
debt instruments (or other agreed instruments) in the context of eligible transactions, as per its
Operating Principles and Procedures. Undergoing consultations with the Bank's team will lead
to the issuance of the Decree creating the FASF in the next weeks, ensuring that design increases
probability of success of Government's program in spite of risks. Subsequently, the Government
intendsto follow a tight timetable to bringFASFinto full operation.

(f3      Legal and Institutional Frameworkfor Corporate Restructuring and Bankruptcy
79.    A new Voluntary Workout Law (No. 2495, VWL) was passed on July 15, 2003,
subject to some weaknesses that the Government has committed to address. The new VWL
stands as the first ever attempt in Bolivia to establish a voluntary workout framework. Although


34As per guiding principles described inparagraph 65, limits to the use of Article 38 should be considered.

35Lessons learned from similar Bank operations are being incorporated in this process. For instance, a crucial lesson
derived from the 1995 Bank Reform Loan to Argentina (Report No. P6570), refers to a selection bias in the roster of
potential acquiring banks, with troubled banks not attracting prime-rated buyers, even when sufficient financial
resources were available (see ICR on the loan, Report No. 19467). More flexible lending conditions of the
equivalent to the FASF were assessed as a feature that may have corrected this bias, to enable more solvent banks to
have access to better terms. These are incorporated in the design of the FASF under discussion.



                                                         26

long overdue, this effort was not trivial considering it took place in a difficult environment,
politically heated3`, and subject to perverse interactions among debtors and creditors. As a
result, a difficult compromise process took place to enable enactment of this law, which thus
exhibits some weaknesses, particularly regarding Due Process and Priority of Claims (related to
the protection of creditor rights), which the Government will attempt to resolve.37 Supporting
regulations have been approved. In addition, to enable the workings of the VWL the SE was
recently created, whose efficient functioning will be critical to the success of the process.

80.     The Government understands that additional reforms are needed with regard to the
voluntary and the formal corporate insolvency frameworks, and has a plan for
~roceeding.~'The authorities are seeking to address weaknesses of the formal corporate
insolvency legislation (outlined in Section 1I.E) by submitting to Congress amendments to the
Commercial Code alongside additional regulations of the VWL issued to address needed
clarifications regarding Due Process and Priority of Claims, and changes to the VWL if deemed
necessary, in light of expected accumulated experience.                     Also, they are seeking to ensure
consistency between the formal legislation and VWL, together with adherence to guiding
principles that, among others, preserve secure creditor rights and strengthen due process. Due to
the short time span since the recent enactment of the VWL, and the recent establishment of the
SE, the Government is committed to developing a working plan setting forth specific objectives
and incorporating a review of practices under the VWL, subject to specific target dates for the
completion of required elements,by mid-2004.39

81.     To enable the new VWL, the Government established the SE in August 2003, and
appointed a Superintendent. The regulations governing operations of this Superintendency
were issued by end-September 2003.                    However, partly due to lack of progress, the
Superintendent, who had been appointed de facto, has since resigned, but the mechanism for
appointing a new Superintendent has been set to motion and it i s expected to be completed early
in 2004. To help increase readiness of the SE, the MOF has approved budgetary sources until
the end of 2003 and included support in the budget for next year, while issuing directives to
reallocate staff from other entities to start activities. Extensive training and additional staffing
will be needed for a prolonged period of time, particularly with regard to the training of
"Sindicos of Restructuracidn." Moreover, the Government i s evaluating a program to ensure
that Judges (a crucial component in the restructuring process), together with the Judicial Power


j6 This i s evidenced from ex-President Shnchez de Lozada's decision to form a coalition government in August 2003
to increase his degree of governability, an arrangement that still remains under President Mesa.

37 These weaknesses have made it difficult for the Bank's Legal Department to find it fully acceptable, at least
without some evidence of successful implementation. However, through interactions with a team of Bolivian
lawyers, the main aspects that could be corrected going forward have been covered and are expected to be addressed
in the near future. In particular, the Authorities have agreed to explore a way to make it clearer that creditors are
ranked in accordance with the provisions of the current Commercial Code. Prior attempts made to overcome
shortcomings of the law through regulations cannot fully fill the void, since they leave ample grounds for legal
challenges.

38 See Annex VI11for a full discussion of changes needed in the insolvency framework.

j 9Under the TOR reviewed for this study, the consultant will conduct a thorough review of the Commercial Code,
the Voluntary Restructuring Law and other related legislation and regulations and provide a detailed report, within
seven months, outlining all changes required to provide an insolvency regime following international experience
suitable for Bolivia.



                                                         27

and in collaboration with local universities, are trained under the new framework. Importantly, it
i s expected that the Corporate Restructuring Workshop to be launched early 2004 by the
Government, will help to identify priorities and additional TA needs (with support from IFIs) to
fully engage in corporate restructuring.

82.    Notwithstanding the VWL, there is a necessity to improve incentives and the
framework of voluntary corporate restructuring agreements, favoring a variant of the
"London Approach". The elements of this variant (see Annex VIII) are currently being
evaluated by the Government. There are concerns that the VWL may not contain adequate
incentives to motivate the start of negotiation among parties (all integral components of the
"London Approach").          Many countries have found i t necessary to "encourage" the parties to
begin the process either through regulation or other mandatory means.                            Therefore, the
Government i s evaluating the assistance of facilitators or arbitrators used in the "London
Approach". Furthermore, given the harsh penalties involved if the parties are unable to come to
an agreement (i.e. liquidation), it i s likely that the bulk of the negotiation process will take place
outside of the formal process. The Government i s committed to monitor the process closely,
particularly through the SE (with timely reports to the SRT), to determine if additional measures
are warranted to encourage participation and foster agreements. These aspects are also going to
be explored at the plannedCorporate RestructuringWorkshop, with Bank TA support.4o

83.    In addition, SRT is committed to identify 3-5 corporations suitable to potentially
initiate a restructuring process and organize workshops with interested corporations and
creditors to promote corporate restructuringprocesses. Although the corporate restructuring
process would likely take several months to be implemented, the Corporate Restructuring
Workshop being prepared i s intended to bring together interested Corporations and creditors to
spark interest in the process. In addition, with Bank assistance, the workshop will provide
needed guidance for debtors and creditors (as evidenced b y the Bank's Team interviews with
banks and some corporations), bringing in international experience and lessons from the limited
number of cases that have started to emerge.41 Importantly, this effort will explore alternatives
to deal with the smaller debtors. It will promote, among others, the establishment of mechanisms
to encourage voluntary corporate restructuring agreements (possibly through enhanced pre-
packaged arrangements, including mediation facilities, adapting a mechanism similar to the
"London Approach"), as well as engaging corporations to undertake formal (including voluntary)
restructuring processes, if applicable. The team i s aware of the risks brought about by a slow
start of the restructuring process, but, inevitably, it involves a process of "learning by doing" and
capacity building. The Government recognizes that this i s a necessary condition for stronger
banks to restart prudent lending and increase growth.



40Other important institutional aspects to complement corporate restructuring processes and progressive resumption
of prudent lending include ongoing plans to address deficiencies regarding the legal framework for creditor rights
and secured lending, as well as deficiencies in corporate governance. Both o f these aspects are to be supported by
IFC.

4` The Government is exploring with the IADB grant support to support an in-depth assessment of companies to
determine potential candidates for corporate restructuring. If this materializes, the Government has requested the
Bank's technical team to coordinate with them in the process of developing TORS. This coordination effort is
seeking to ensure consistency, while continuing TA to incorporate lessons learned from recent Bank experiences in
East Asia and Turkey.



                                                        28

84.   The Government has also started to design corporate funds to support corporations
directly in their restructuring process, in parallel to the FASF (see illustration in Annex IX).
This effort will depend on the support of a CAF loan approved in September 2003 and possibly
an IADB loan. The Bank has ongoing discussions with the Government, CAF and IADB,
recognizing the importance and interconnectivity of their collective work. All have committed to
work closely going forward to ensure a consistent approach that entails an effective division of
labor. All parties agreed on guidelines for the Corporate Restructuring Fund(s)to be structured
in accordance to market based principles, consistent with those governing the creation of the
FASF:

    Only viable companies (based on financial fundamentals and future business plans and
    prospects) with strong restructuringplans are eligible to participate.

0   The Funds' Boards reaching these decisions mustbe safeguarded from political influences.

0   Government to provide safeguards from claims, in case a company ultimately fails.
    The operation of the funds must be well coordinated with the regulations governing the
    VWL.

0   The provision of funds should not constitute subsidies inthe long run.

0   The funds are to be managed by international managers with demonstrated expertise.

(g)    Anti-money Laundering
85.   The Government has incorporated the AML/CFT recommendations of the Financial
Sector Assessment Program (FSAP). On January 2003, the SBEF initiated an on-site program
aimed at assessing whether financial institutions comply with the applicable AML/CFT rules.
Hitherto, the SBEF has conducted on-site inspections in seven banks and will complete the
banking system before year-end. As a result of these inspections, the banks are being observed
to enhance their AMUCFT systems in a number of aspects; in addition, the on-site work for non-
bank supervised institutions also includes the revision of AMLEFT systems. The 2004 program
includes a deeper analysis of banks' AMUCFT systems. However, the Bolivian UIF will need
to be equipped to carry out inspections to other unsupervised institutions as soon as the new
AMUCFT law enters in effect. The Bolivian authorities are in the process of drafting, with the
help of USAID, a new AMUCFT law that will follow the Revised FATF 40                           +  8
Recommendations, incorporating new offenses, toughening penalties, improving extradition
provisions, enlarging the catalogue of financial and non-financial institutions abided by the
AMUCFT regime, and enhancing the UIF's-due           to several reasons, the drafting of the law has
been protracted and i s anticipated by early-2004. It i s expected that the draft laws will be
presented to Congress during 2004. In addition, the SBEF i s drafting regulations to make the
duties of external auditors in this area more exacting.

          IV. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY INTHE FINANCIAL SECTOR

             A.      Bank Assistance Strategy towards Financial Sector Reform

86.   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): The previous CAS for Bolivia (report no. 17890-BO)
was discussed on June 16, 1998, with a Progress Report discussed on June 5, 2001 (report no.
22162-BO). Concurrently with the proposed Loadcredit, a new CAS (report no. 26838-BO) i s



                                                29

being presented incorporating flexibility to address the unstable political situation in the country.
The CAS sets out future Bank support describing the likely direction of assistance. It is
grounded in the country's revised PRSP, placing financial reforms as an essential element to
preserve macro-financial stability and avoid a financial crisis. The stress faced by the financial
and corporate sectors could result in deep crisis, with extremely negative impacts on overall
poverty, as evidence from Latin America demonstrates. Indeed, growth and thereby employment
opportunities depend crucially on the financial sector. B y allocating resources efficiently, well
functioning financial systems play a key role in the process of economic growth. As described in
Section 11, over the last four years, Bolivia's banking system has experienced a sharp
deterioration in asset quality and high deposit volatility, while the corporate sector has seen sales
plummeting and the ability to serve debts weakening.          Importantly, the banlung sector has
adjusted relatively well, unlike the corporate sector, where restructuring has been unsuccessful.
Currently, both the banking and corporate sectors necessitate major restructuring, alongside
important structural changes for the healthy development of the financial system, that would
enable them to restart prudent lending and ultimately support sustainable growth.

87.   Previous World Bank Support to Financial Sector Reform in Bolivia: During the
prolonged period of fragilities and recurrent crises described in Section 11, the Bank provided
continued assistance to strengthen Bolivia's financial sector. In particular, the Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (1988-1992, Credit No. 1925-BO) was designed to confront the banking crisis
of the late eighties.   I t focused on strengthening reserve requirements, improving financial
institutions regulation, establishing mechanisms to deal with weak and insolvent banks and
restructuring state-owned banks.       The Structural Adjustment Credit (1991-1995, Credit
No. 2298-BO) then aimed at increasing the efficiency of the financial sector. At the advent of
the 1996 crisis, the Financial Markets and Pension Reform Technical Assistance Credit (1996-
1998, Credit No. 2789-BO) provided assistance to strengthen Bolivia's banking and capital
market regulatory authorities (the SPVS and the SBEF) and to reform its pension system. On the
banking side, the project aimed to support the resolution of the 1996/97 banlung crisis and to
strengthen the banking system by improving banking regulation.

88.   More recently, the Bank supported the new Banking Law and a series of regulations
to improve bank solvency and efficiency. The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit supported a
Reactivation Decree, which re-established an independent SBEF and created a Financial System
Department in the BCB charged with managing banks being liquidated. Under the other credits,
these banking authorities were further strengthened through a combination of policy and
regulatory reforms, as well as TA support towards capacity building. The Reactivation Decree
supported by the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit made external audits of commercial banks
compulsory, improved loan classification and provisioning regulation, prohibited connected
lending and included limits on loan concentration. The Structural Adjustment Credit supported
the drafting of a new modern Banking Law, as well as the elimination of the state as financial
intermediary (all state-owned banks were closed or sold). Under the Financial Markets and
Pension Reform Technical Assistance Credit and after, the SBEF passed several important new
regulations, aimed at strengthening banks and enhancing supervision.

89.   Although over FYs 99-03 the Bank made no new lending to Bolivia associated with
the financial sector, it maintained a strong relationship through technical advice (including
recently through the FSAP) and discussions with Bolivia and donors. The nature of the


                                                30

projects changed over the course of the 1998 CAS period from what had been planned initially,
because of the need to respond to the economic, political and social crisis that had been building
over the last several years. The 1998 CAS outcome benchmarks were not met, largely due to the
difficult economic reality in Bolivia over the past five years. The 1998 CAS underestimated the
importance of macroeconomic stability, and the lack of resilience of the economy to respond to
shocks. The Government's revised PRSP directly addresses difficulties that the country has
encountered over the last several years, and the lack of progress in poverty reduction (see CAS
report).  Following the recently concluded FSAP exercise, the Government requested both
technical and financial assistance from the Bank.

              B.      Rationale for Proposed Bank Lending to the Financial Sector

90.   A confluence of circumstances provides the rationale for the Bank to provide
assistance to Bolivia, even in the midst of the current unstable political and challenging
macroeconomic environment. First, resolution of the stock problems at banks i s needed to
enable them to restart lending to the distressed corporate sector, which i s essential if the Bolivian
economy i s to achieve sustained economic growth in the future. Second, the Government has
signed a SBA with the IMF seeking to stabilize the economic situation and lay the basis for
sustained economic growth and poverty reduction, which has been found to be broadly on track
(see Annex XV). Third, the Government has indicated its commitment and vision for the
financial and corporate sector under its BCRP, which involves a feasible set of up-front actions
with strong impact and crucial to get the program started, also supported by assistance from CAF
and IADB under a strong coordination effort. Fourth, the Government i s revamping a portion of
the regulatory TA already in place to support future actions under the BCRP, which coupled with
ongoing TA from the Bank's team (as requested by the Government) will help them undertake
corporate restructuring aspects more effectively to revert sluggishness in progress in this area.
The latter i s crucial to ensure success within a context of a systemic BCRP.

                                 C.     Linksto PovertyReduction

91.   The proposed Loadcredit would support the Government's reform program, thus
contributing to poverty reduction. Bolivia has one of the lowest per capita incomes in Latin
America (less than US$l,OOO) with about two thirds of the population under the poverty line.
The Government's BCRP will have a bearing on poverty reductionby restoringconfidence in the
banlung system and reducing the probability of a deeper financial crisis and the resulting
economic disruption and high fiscal cost. Moreover, in the longer-run, the reform program will
have an impact on reducing poverty by stimulating economic growth and by broadening access
to financial services, particularly to small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Since this proposed
Loadcredit would be an important support for the Government's reform program, it would also
contribute to poverty reduction. These links are discussed below:

0   Improving Bolivia's financial system depth will help sustain long-term growth and reduce
    poverty. There i s strong evidence of a causal link between financial depth and soundness and
    economic growth. Different measures of financial development, at certain points in time,
    help predict subsequent economic growth, even after account i s taken of other determinants




                                                  31

     of               Inturn, the international experience clearly shows a positive effect of growth on
     poverty reduction. A study (Dollar and Kraay, 2000) suggests that growth in per capita GDP
     would rise almost one-for-one the income of the poor.43

     The Government's reform program involves the strengthening of the financial, legal and
     regulatory framework and the regularization/resolution of a number of weak and insolvent
     banks and corporations. Strong prudential regulation and the bank regularization program
     would create lower incentives for financial institutions to engage in riskier activities, and
     help eliminate the uncertainty resulting from undercapitalized banks. This would enhance
     the capacity of the financial sector to perform its functions of mobilizing savings and
     allocating capital to productive activities, thus stimulating economic growth, and would
     promote foreign investment in the country. Sustained economic growth, in turn, should help
     reduce poverty in Bolivia.

     Enabling a broader access to financial services to under-served sectors of the population
     will help reduce unemployment and poverty.               Shallow domestic financial markets have
     magnified credit and output slowdowns in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico, with particularly
     adverse impact on SMEs, which are the first ones to be cut off from access to credit. This
     has resulted in an increase in unemployment and in a swelling in the ranks of the poor. Well
     managed and well capitalized banks, operating under a sound regulatory and supervisory
     framework, are likely to restart lending to the healthier private sector -after corporate
     restructuring, thereby improving access of the private sector to the financial system. This, in
     turn, will improve the capacity of the economy to increase employment and promote growth.
     Once completed, the BCRP should support, over time, a larger and cheaper supply of prudent
     credit, more accessible to underserved sectors of the economy such as micro and SMEs, and
     to low-income households. This i s likely to have a significant impact in reducing poverty in
     a country where underemployment i s very high. As the actions being supported by the
     proposed Loadcredit are important steps in implementing the Government's BCRP, they
     would also contribute to poverty reduction.

     Reducing the risk of a deeper financial crisis in Bolivia will also bring big gains in poverty
     reduction. The Government's BCRP will reduce the risk of another banlung crisis. Recent
     experience shows that financial crisis entail huge fiscal costs that crowd out social spending,
     with dramatic effects on poverty increases. The fiscal cost of the 1999 banking crisis in
     Indonesia amounted to 50 percent of GDP, while the Jamaican crisis of 1995-1996 cost about
     40 percent of GDP, increasing its already large ratio of public debt to GDP b y 50 percentage
     points.44 The Brazil crisis of 1994 had a fiscal cost of about 13 percent o f GDP, while the
     Mexican banking crisis of 1994/1995 has left a debt to the Government, not yet fully
     realized, of about US$lOO billion, about 20 percent of GDP. To face these costs,
     governments must adjust other expenditures, generally social expenditures and other


42A review of evidence on the contribution of financial system development and growth is presented in Caprio and
Honohan (2000).

43Dollar, David and Aart Kraay, "Growth is Good for the Poor", the World Bank 2000. The positive impact of
growth on poverty reduction is supported by extensive research, including Gallup, John Luke; Radelet, Steven; and
Warner Andrew, "Economic Growth and the Income of the Poor", Harvard Institute for International Development,
November 1998; Roemer, Michael and Gugerty, Mary Kay, "Does Economic Growth Reduce Poverty?" Harvard
Institute for International Development, March 1997.
44See the World Bank, Finance for Growth, December 20,2000.



                                                        32

     investments, which comprise a large share of the budget, with devastating effects on the
     levels of poverty45and future rates of growth and competiti~eness.~~                    The bank.resolution
     mechanism to be implemented under the BCRP will reduce the need for fiscal resources to
     complete the restructuring of weak banks. This will open the possibility of usingthese funds
     for social programs. A reduction in the risk of a banking crisis would, therefore, have a
     significant payoff in terms of both avoiding the increase in the ranks of the poor caused by a
     financial crisis and in liberating public funds for use in poverty reduction programs.

                                V.     THEPROPOSED LOAN/CREDIT

                            A.       LoaWCredit Objectives and Description

92.    The broader policy objective of the proposed programmatic Loadcredit is to
support the Government's BCRP, aimed at strengthening the financial and corporate
sectors, avoiding a deeper systemic crisis and ultimately boostingeconomic growth. This i s
an ambitious program, for which extensive TA and financial resources are needed to support all
the components of the strategy described in Section 1II.Bin a cohesive manner.

               B.       Programmatic Approach to Lendingto the Financial Sector

93.    The far-reaching BCRP of the Government has long-term and complex goals, going
beyond the support that can be provided by a single operation. Past Bank experience in
other countries (for example in Jamaica and Brazil) has shown that it i s more realistic to support
a program of reforms within a programmatic framework that involves sequential operations,
which can be approved based on the success and lessons learned from the previous ones.47 This
i s particularly relevant in the current political and macroeconomic context in Bolivia. Also, past
lending to Bolivia and analysis of the interactions between the bank and corporate sectors
illustrate the importance of having a cohesive, systemic, approach to bank and corporate
restructuring, in spite of lagging advances in the latter.

94.    Against this background, the Bank's strategy to support the Government's BCRP
calls for operations in a programmatic context, each focusing on distinct policy measures
and actions that, taken as a whole, would contribute to the strengthening of the financial
and corporate sectors. This enables the Bank to support the overall program through strong
Government actions already completed (and other likely to be completed soon) on the banking
sector, even if there i s no equally strong progress on the corporate sector (which has proved
harder to achieve in the short-term, particularly under current political challenges and the newly
established and incomplete institutional framework). It would also allow for feedback from one


45 The 1982-83 Brazilian debt crisis caused income of the poor to decline by as much as 33 percent, well above the
decline in average income. See de Ferranti, David and Guillermo Perry, Securing our Future in a Global Economy,
Chapter 5, p. 78.

46 This has been the case in Jamaica, which has had to keep primary surpluses around 10% of GDP during the last
few years in order to handle the large interest cost of its public debt, particularly after the crisis, with increasing
social pressures. See Report No. P7397JM and P7527JM.

47 Previous experience includes, for Jamaica, First and Second Bank Restructuring and Debt Management Program
Adjustment Loans (Report P7397-JM and P7527-JM, respectively), and for Brazil, First and Second Programmatic
FSALs (Report P7448-BR and 25880-BR, respectively).



                                                         33

sector to the other, increasing the likelihood of success of the reform program.                             The
programmatic feature i s particularly suitable to handle actions that are subject to uncertainty
about timing and implementation, Le., allowing the newly established frameworks for corporate
restructuring to take effect. The latter hinges upon other means of support, chiefly ongoing TA
from the Bank and other IFIs, to increase the likelihood of success of the systemic strategy.
Furthermore, the enhanced flexibility of programmatic Loandcredits would allow the Bank to
address challenges such as weak institutional development or macroeconomic prospects for
             Finally, such an approach forms an appropriate response to the Government's requests
of supporting both the financial and corporate sectors simultaneously.

95.     The proposed Loadcredit is the first of two proposed sequential operations. Each
Loadcredit would have two tranches, disbursed upon completion of agreed actions.49 While the
first Loadcredit would have conditionality largely based on completed and soon to be
completed actions in the financial sector, the second Loadcredit would follow a similar design,
but with flexibility to include conditionality on the corporate sector if sufficient progress is
achieved andor further advances on the financial sector take place. Importantly, sufficient
progress on the corporate sector may not involve a revision of the VWL if there are important
advances in the overall institutional framework andor corporate restructuring cases. The trigger
for actions for the Second Loadcredit will then contemplate progress in the broad reform effort
(i,e., also including further progress in the financial sector).

                           C.      Coordination with Multilateral Institutions


effort of various multilateral institution^.^^ The Bank, IADB, CAF, and IMF are working in
96.    Due to its complexity, the Government's program is to be supported by a concerted

coordination to assist Bolivia to carry out reforms, using a combination of financing, TA, and
grants. Close monitoring i s necessary to ensure good coordination and adequate allocation of
responsibilities across institutions.             Such coordination has underlined the LoanlCredit
preparation process, particularly with regard to the definition of guiding principles for the bank
and corporate sectors restructuring funds, and division of main responsibilities.51

97.    The Bank's first Programmatic Loadcredit will focus largely on the restructuring of
the banking sector, while the Bank's ongoing TA and Second Loan, together with CAF's
and the IADB's loans will focus on the restructuring of the corporate sector. Although the


48 Under Bolivia's current situation, the programmatic design o f Bank support can provide crucial signaling to the
public and make the Government's capacity to support the restructuring of viable banks more credible.

49 An additional relevant lesson from previous loans incorporated here -derived from the two Bank Restructuring
Facility Loans to Mexico (Report nos. P7347-ME and P7452-ME)-                i s to disburse against specific bank
transactions, not against promise of future actions, which may not materialize. However, differences with the loans
to Mexico exist. In Mexico's case, the banks to be resolved were known and intervened before loan approval,
unlike the proposed Loadcredit. Also, in Bolivia's case the "transactions" will support the purchasing bank, while
in Mexico the funds were given to IPAB upon the clean-up and sale of banks being resolved. In this regard, the
proposed Bolivia operation is more like the Argentina's Bank Reform Loan (P6570).

j0 The importance of strong coordination to increase implementation capacity of the Government's program i s
discussedin Section I V of the CAS.
"Thischiefly includes, thedesign andfunding ofsupportingcorporate funds andstrengthening ofthe SE,which
enhance the Government's capacity to achieve results.



                                                         34

First Programmatic Loadcredit will concentrate conditionality on the banlung sector, the Bank
will continue providing TA for the corporate sector, complementing efforts underway by IADB
and CAF. The IMF will watch, in close coordination with the Bank as following the FSAP
exercise, the progress in both the banking and the corporate sectors, as part of broader
macroeconomic surveillance under the ongoing SBA and the PRGF in preparation. This strong
cooperation and coordination among all involved I F I s i s expected to maximize the effectiveness
of the reforms.

                    D.      Commitments under the Proposed Loadcredit

98.   Letter of Development Policy. The authorities have submitted a LSDP describing the
program of actions, objectives and policies that the Government i s implementing under its BCRP
(Annex 11).

99.   Maintenance of a sound macro economicframework. DuringNegotiations, the Bank and
the authorities agreed that the release of both tranches would be subject to maintaining a sound
macroeconomic framework, consistent with the 1"s        SBA and the LSDP.

Board Presentatiomirst Tranche Actions

100. Board presentation of the Loadcredit will take place based on the following actions
already taken by the Bolivian authorities in the following areas (first tranche of US$lO.O million
equivalent from IDA)-see     Annex I:

        Organizational arrangements to manage systemic bank and corporate restructuring:
      The SRT was established by Ministerial Resolution in May 2003 to provide vision,
      coordination, and leadership to the systemic restructuring process, incorporating
      interlinkages between bank and corporate sector.

        Legal clarity on appropriate distribution of regulatory powers:
      The LOPE was approved in March 2003. Supporting Supreme Decrees were issued in
      March, May, August, and October 2003. These (i)        reaffirmed the exclusive authority of
      the SBEF in issuing prudential norms; (ii)defined the role of the Office of the General
      Superintendent (OGS) of the SIREFI; and (iii)       clarified the nature of the interrelations
      between the Government and the regulatory system.

      Budgetary procedures were implemented through Interinstitutional Agreement of
      November 2003, ensuring SBEF's timely access to its budgetary resources within the
      SIGMA framework, while maintaining high standards of transparency and accountability.

        Bank and corporate diagnosis:
      An Interagency Technical Team was established by SRT in May 2003 for the diagnosis of
      corporations and their interrelations with banks. It created a Database in SBEF in July
      2003 (updated it in November 2003), integrating available information on corporate
      debtors.




                                                 35

        Prudential strengthening and prompt correctiveaction:
      On prudential strengthening. SBEF issued: (i)resolution in November 2003 for loan
      classification and provisioning of restructured loans; and (ii)Regulation in July 2003 on
      internal auditing and control system.

      On prompt corrective action: (i)SBEF issued rules/procedures in April 2003 for
      application of Art 112 of the Banking Law; (iii)SBEF instructed in October 2003 a time-
      bound increase in two banks where a shortfall had been determined, and has solved the
      identified capital shortfalls in at least one of these banks, following agreed upon principles;
      and (iii)BCB approved Resolution in April 2003 that eliminated discrimination of access
      to LOLR facilities for banks under regularization plan.

        Bank resolutionframework:
      SRT approved in December 2003 guiding principles for banking system restructuring
      strategy (see paragraph 65), chiefly including no bailout of bank shareholders and limiting
      use of public funds.

      SBEF has (i) Resolution inApril 2003 on the Operating Manual and procedures for
                     issued
      application of Art. 120 of the Banking Law (for bank resolution), and (ii)      intervened and
      resolved a non-bank financial institution (Mutual) in May 2003 using the recently created
      legal framework for bank resolution.

        Corporate restructuring and bankruptcy:
      SRT started to implement in December 2003 the TORS for a study to design and
      implementa plan to improve the framework for corporate reorganization and liquidation.

      Organization of SE was approved by Supreme Decree 27203 in October 2003. The SE has
      assigned budgetary resources for 2003 and included in the budget for 2004, as per report of
      the General Department of Budget of the MOF.

        Anti-money laundering:
      SBEF incorporated in 2003 the review on AMUCFT into bank Inspection manuals and on-
      site inspections.

Effectiveness Conditions

101. A first tranche of US$lO.O million equivalent from IDA would be disbursed upon
Loadcredit effectiveness based on evidence that the following action has been taken by the
Bolivian authorities:

        Bank resolutionframework:
      Decree issued for the creation of the FASF, which provides capital support for sound
      financial institutions that acquire the deposits and assets of a financial institution under




                                                   36

     resolution, and to eligible financial institutions that participate in eligible corporate
     restructuring processes.


Second Tranche Actions

102. A second tranche of US$20.0 million (US$5 million equivalent from IDA, US$ 15 million
from IBRD) would be disbursed based on the following actions to be taken by the Bolivian
authorities in the following areas:

       Bank and corporatediagnosis:
     Database quarterly updates and analysis to be carried out, including inputs from relevant
     institutions.

       Bank resolutionframework:
     SBEF to issue resolution establishing the eligibility criteria for financial institutions
     acquiring deposits and assets of financial institutions undergoing P & A processes.

     SBEF to take irrevocable actions to ensure full capitalization or resolution of a selected
     undercapitalizedbank, as agreed with the Bank, following agreed principles.

     Evidence that the FASF i s fully operational, principles and procedures have been made
     effective, and a Coordination Unit for its operation has been created and it i s adequately
     staffed.

     The FASF to issue subordinated debt (or other type of instruments agreed with the Bank)
     to financial institutions carrying out eligible transactions (i-e., mergers, acquisitions,
     resolutions, and corporate restructuring), in accordance with FASF operating principles
     and procedures.

       Corporate restructuring and bankruptcy:
     Superintendent of (Non-financial) Enterprises appointed.

     SC to achieve minimal operational capacity to fulfill its basic duties, i.e., has assigned
     office space and equipment, and has hiredessential staff.

     SRT to identify 3-5 corporations suitable to potentially initiate a restructuring process and
     organized workshops with interested corporations and creditors to promote corporate
     restructuring processes.

    Issue Decree for the creation of Corporate Restructuring Fund (s) (CRF), to provide fresh
     money to eligible corporations undergoing restructuring processes.

      Anti-money laundering:
    Law submitted to Congress adopting revised 40+8 FATF Recommendations of the
    Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering.



                                               37

          E.      IndicativeActions ExpectedBefore Second ProgrammaticLoan

103. Preparation of a second programmatic loan in support of BCRP (expected for
US$25 million) would be initiated based on confirmation of satisfactory maintenance of
achievements supported under the Bank's first Loadcredit and progress in the Government's
implementation of its program. The following are indicative actions expected before the Second
Programmatic Loan:

      Organizational arrangements to manage systemic bank and corporate restructuring:
     Pilot voluntary corporate restructuring processes completed.

      Bank and corporate diagnosis:
     Lessons learned from pilot voluntary restructuring processes documented and incorporated
     into analyses.

      Prudential strengthening and prompt correctiveaction:
     SBEF to have: (i) prudential regulation upgrading consolidated supervision and (ii)
                        issued
     prepared draft regulations to make loan classification more consistent with international
     standards.

     SBEF to have taken irrevocable actions to ensure the full capitalization of financial
     institutions (via recapitalization or resolution in case capital shortfalls were to be
     identified, following SRT agreed upon principles.

     Submission to Congress of modification to Art. 112 a) of the Banking Law, clarifying bank
     intervention triggers based on the ratio of losses to primary capital.

      Bank resolutionframework:
     Law to be presented to Congress to clarify the functions and responsibility of FRF -which
     provides funds to enable the coverage of protected depositors during resolution processes
     of insolvent banks, as per Article 120 o f the banking law.

       Corporate restructuring and bankruptcy:

     CRF's operations satisfactorily assessedb y Bank staff..

     Additional regulations of the VWL issued to address needed clarifications regarding Due
     Process and Priority of Claims.

     Legislation presented to Congress to amend bankruptcy regime, particularly correcting the
     presumption of fraud in corporate bankruptcy processes embedded in current framework.

     Legislation drafted to address deficiencies in: (i)   legal framework for creditor rights and
     secured lending, and (ii)corporate governance.




                                                 38

        Anti-money laundering:
      Adopted recommendations to continue increasing compliance with FATFstandards.


                                 F.       Fiduciary Arrangements

104. Flow of Funds Arrangement. Disbursement arrangements would follow simplified
FSAL procedures. The Borrower would open a specific separate deposit account in U S dollars
in the BCB. Once the Bank formally notifies the Borrower that a tranche is available for
withdrawal, the Borrower may submit a withdrawal application so that the proceeds of the
tranche are deposited by the Bank/Association in this specific account to be used in accordance
with the Loadcredit Agreement.

105. If the proceeds of the Loadcredit are used for ineligible purposes, the Bank would require
the Borrower to either: (a) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of
said payment, or (b) if the Bank shall so request, refundsuch amount to the Bank, in which case,
the Bank would credit the amount refundedto the Loan/Credit Account for cancellation.

106. FASF Replenishing Mechanism. The Government, via the Coordination Unit to be
created to manage FASF will submit to the Bank prior to the second tranche disbursement,
evidence that the equivalent to Loadcredit proceeds have been transferred to the FASF, and that
in accordance with the FASF Operating Principles and Procedures, at least 60% of the funds
(stemming from the first disbursement) have been executed through approved instruments by
selected financial institutions for carrying out eligible transactions under the program.

107. Audits. Upon the Bank's request, audits shall be undertaken by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The Deposit Account (andor the FASF) shall be audited by independent
auditors contracted within 60 days and submitting a report to the Bank within 120 days after
disbursement of each tranche. The report will verify that Bank funds have been used for the
purpose specified above.

108. Financial Management. The legal framework governing Bolivia's public financial
management (PFM) can be considered strong (see Annex X). It has been built around the 1990
Law for Financial Administration (SAFCO). This law was designed to promote transparency
and legitimacy to the public sector. Specific regulations were promulgated by 1997 to further
define eight sub-systems: Programming of Operations, Administrative Organization, Budgeting,
Administration of Goods and Services, Administration of Personnel, Treasury and Public Credit,
Integrated Government Accounting, and System of Government Control. Other relevant
legislation include: (i)the Law of Popular Participation under which state resources are
distributed through a process of decentralization of responsibilities; and (ii)the Law of
Decentralization under which administrative power i s dispersed from central administration to
the department level. This law also mandates the annual publication of fiscal accounts, local tax
or revenue collections and government financial statements.

109. A Country Financial Management Assessment (CFAA) i s planned for the second half of
2004. The CFAA will examine the issues of revenue management, the structure of internal


                                                  39

controls and audits, the quality and periodicity of Government reporting, and the system for
tracking poverty reduction expenditures (including HIPC funds).                The CFAA will be
complementedby the European Commission's Compliance Test, which will examine the quality
of expenditures within several sectors (and test the control systems within these sectors). The
combination of both analytical works will provide a full and robust picture of the quality of
Bolivia's PFM and will result in a single set of recommendations to further strengthen the
country's public overall financial management.


                                G.      Impact,Benefits,and Risks

110. SocialImpact. The Loadcredit would have little social impact in the short-run, although
it would help address the stock problem faced by the banking sector and prevent a deepening of
the banking crisis. Nevertheless, for the medium and longer term the actions supported by this
Loadcredit under the Government's BCRP would have important social implications as they
would assist in the creation of an environment conducive to the resumption of prudent lending to
the private sector, with the associated benefits in terms of output growth and employment
generation.    Also, the Loadcredit would provide incentives for corporate restructuring that
could improve the financial conditions of the sector, and hence, of banks' balance sheets. In its
entirety, the proposedproject should result in a better functioning financial sector, better shielded
from external shocks and should encourage prudent and efficient lending to the private sector.
Jump-starting lending will take more time, but should promote increased output, employment,
and sustainable growth, thus contributing to poverty reduction and social stability inBolivia.

111. EnvironmentalImpact. The bank and corporate restructuring program to be supported
by the proposed Loadcredit i s not expected to have any environmental impact. The Loadcredit
i s rated "C" for environmental purposes.

112. Benefits. The proposed first Loadcredit would have several benefits, which are likely to
outweigh the high risks discussed below as a result of macroeconomic, political, social and other
threats. I t will support reforms that contribute to the strengthening of the financial and corporate
sectors, and to the reduction of the probability of crises in the future. The proposed Loadcredit
will enhance banking sector surveillance, clarify the function of and increase independence of
the supervisory bodies, and upgrade prudential regulations and the prompt corrective action
regime. .This should result in lower incentives for financial institutions to engage in risky
activities, reducing the likelihood of another costly crisis with the associated negative impact on
growth and macroeconomic stability.          The bank restructuring program supported by this
operation, aims to raise strong and better capitalized banks, augmenting their ability to restart
prudent lending to the private sector, thus contributing to economic growth and employment
creation. Financial market consolidation and reduction in systemic risks should further shield the
country from crises, raising competition that could promote broader access to financial services,
and lowering potential drains on the public budget, thus enabling effective alternate use for
social purposes.    Setting the framework to enable corporate restructuring should produce a
healthier corporate sector that attracts higher levels of capital and enables increased production,
alongside raising the likelihood of success of reforms in the banking sector. A stricter anti-
money laundering environment could potentially increase foreign investment in the financial
sector. Finally, i t i s expected that the Bank's support together with that of the other I F I s will
increase confidence in the domestic and foreign private sector regarding the Government's


                                                  40

commitment to resolving financial and corporate sector weaknesses and thereby contribute to
greater economic activity.

113. Risks and Risk Mitigation. This Loadcredit i s subject to major risks as it faces
challenges in several areas, most of which stem from the economic and political reality that
Bolivia faces. Through Bank's support to the Government's BCRP, in coordination with other
IFIs,risks could be mitigatedpotentially leading to higher rewards (especially when compared to
the counterfactual of no action, with consequent reputational risks for the Bank in the current
context). The main risks of this operation are the following:
114. Macro-financial risks. The macroeconomic environment i s fragile and presents important
challenges. Economic activity has stagnated since 1999 impeding the much-needed restoration
of growth and employment. A widening fiscal disequilibrium and a rising domestic public debt
are worrisome, and counteracting actions will necessitate politically courageous decisions. The
Bank and the IMF have studied debt sustainability scenarios under different mixes of GDP
growth and fiscal adjustment. If gas exports failed to materialize, greater fiscal adjustment will
be required, being politically difficult.     Furthermore, in this context, the high degree of
dollarization of the economy presents an intricate set of risks. Household and corporate debtors'
currency mismatches between assets and liabilities present a serious risk to creditor banks. In
addition, dollarization implies that the capacity to deal with a depositor run, whether originating
from devaluation fears or concerns about the health of the banking system, i s limited by the
timely availability of foreign exchange reserves, supporting policies that promote stronger use of
domestic currency. However, it should be noted that the country has shown resilience to past
depositor runs, while, currently, the banking system exhibits high levels of liquidity, decreasing
the risks of economically disruptive banking crises. The risks to the operation presented by the
macroeconomic environment are partially mitigated by the fact that it would operate in the
context of an IMFSBA approved in April 2003, and an upcoming IMFPRGFprogram, designed
to help address Bolivia's macroeconomic challenges.

115. Political and social uncertainty. Political uncertainty, particularly given the recent social
unrest, could hamper restructuring efforts and challenge the Government's program. Failure by
the Government to advance in the three promised areas (reforms in the Hydrocarbon Law, a
referendum on gas exports, and calling a constitutional assembly) could spark further social and
political unrests.   Political instability and social disturbances can present a coordination
mechanism for possible bank runs. Political economy aspects may engender additional risks,
due to the potential political influence of bank owners and large debtors.            Unsuccessful
communication of government policies can create the perception of a bailout of rich
shareholders.    To fend off such risks, a strong statement, disseminated through the use of
information and communication tools, of the importance of the particular reforms and the
guiding principles behind them is needed to mobilize public opinion in support of the reforms.
Particularly, the principle of aiding viable banks, not bankers, should be recognized. It should be
noted that the Bank would be associated only with the actions o f the FASF that adheres to
principles agreed upon with the Bank. Although the Government may intervene in a number of
ways other than through the FASF, the Bank will not be involved in these in any way. The
difficult social and political situation may force the adoption of second best strategies -although
politically viable, perverse incentives and moral hazard problems may be embedded in such
strategies. Moreover, early successes in the implementation of the Government strategy will
enhance the political support, making additional reforms easier to implement.


                                                 41

116. Limited implementation capacity: Governance problems, the high number of players, the
complexity of interactions among them, and weak institutional capacity could impede progress in
banking and corporate restructuring.     Furthermore, low available human capital for running
restructured institutions could also pose a constraint in the Government's restructuring efforts.
The completion of strong prior actions prior to Board approval, strong conditionality embedded
in the second tranche, the performance-based nature of the project, and strong supervision and
ongoing TA effort contribute to mitigate such risks.
117. Inadequate framework for corporate restructuring: The chances of success of the
banking reform hinge critically on a number of factors, one of which i s progress in corporate
sector restructuring. However, the framework for corporate restructuring i s still inadequate due
to: (i)shortcomings in the new law for corporate restructuring; (ii)lack of a sound formal
insolvency law; and, (iii)weak institutional framework, both in the Judiciary and the newly
created SE. The lagging progress in corporate restructuring areas, coupled with weaknesses in
the Judiciary system could slowdown advances in the banking area due to its interrelatedness.
Actions to mitigate implementation risks (including capacity building assisted by the ongoing
TA provided by the Bank's team and through the Regulatory TA loan) should reduce the
corporate restructuring risks.  Importantly, the workshop bringing together corporations and
banks should play a catalytic role in starting negotiations leading to corporate restructuring,
which also could increase the public's support of the Government's program.
118. Legal Risks: These arise from confusing and fragile legal framework, which could be
overturned given the current political situation, despite the recent improvement. Many advances
have depended on Decrees, which are subordinate to laws and can be reversed or overridden
easily.  However, the resilience of recent achievements regarding legal clarity of financial
supervisory and regulatory powers to several institutional changes, the I W ' s SBA, the LSDP
and existing institutional reforms signal a stronger Government commitment to maintain
achievements supported under the Loadcredit.




                                                 42

.-M
a0
L


 2
Y
 v2
 2
 e,
Yn


9 8    VJ


            "EX   11
LETTEROFSECTOR DEVELOPMENTPOLlCY




           47

48

49

shocks.




           50

51

analysis,




             52

53

54



                                              ANNEX111
     LEGAL     CLARITYAND APPROPRIATENESSOFBANKSUPERVISORYFRAMEWORK


The BCPA found that the institutional framework for the supervision of banks
suffered from: (i) of clarity in the objectives and attributions of the agencies
                         lack
involved, (ii)     potential for government interference, (iii)        limited independence of the
supervisory agencies, and (iv) questionable effectiveness of the coordination mechanism
inplace. Most of these shortcomings have been dealt with since through the publication
of a number of regulations issuedby the government. However, the last re-organization
of the government that followed the October crisis, has introduced some concerns, which
need to be clarified through new regulations and practice.

The maininstitutionalarrangementscouldbesummarizedas follows:

    0     The SBEF i s an autarchic agency in charge of regulating and supervising all
          financial intermediation activities-notably,             the Banking Law provides that
          SBEF's attributions are exclusive and cannot be delegated. The autonomy and
          financial independence of the SBEF were reiterated by Decree 27026, which also
          proclaimed the exclusive ability of the SBEF to issue prudential regulations for
          supervised institutions.

    0     The General Superintendency of the SIREFI' i s in charge of overseeing the
          effectiveness of management of sector Superintendencies and their adequate
          control of supervised entities.          I t s attributions include the power to resolve
          discrepancies and impose sanctions to sector Superintendencies, resolve appeals
          made by supervised entities, and approve the budget and the appointment of the
          principal staff of sector Superintendencies.               Most importantly, the General
          Superintendent also ensures that the sector Superintendencies adopt regulatory
          best practices.

    0     The Ministry of Finance (MOF) i s in charge of watching over the SIREFI and
          coordinating the adjustments to the regulation of the financial system with the
          President of the Central Bank. It i s also the "tutor"2 o f the SIREFI.

          The Vice-Minister of Financial Services and Corporations (VMFS) from the M O F
          is charged with coordination between the government and the SIREFI; proposing
          policies for financial,         securities, and corporations; coordinating with the
          corresponding institutions the adequateness of institutional policies and general
          norms of the SIREFI, coordinating with the Central Bank of BCB's monetary,




  The System of Financial Regulation i s an autarchic entity, which regulates, controls, and supervises the
activities, people, and entities of banks, NBFIs,insurance companies, pension fund administrators, security
markets, and firms. The SIREFI i s presided by the General Superintendent and encompasses the SBEF; the
Superintendency of Pensions, Securities, and Insurance; and the Superintendence of Enterprises.
* Tutorship ("tuicidn"), according to the Bolivian legal framework, includes institutional protection and
legal compliance oversight.



                                                       57

        banking, and credit policy; and coordinate with the Ministry of Economic
        Development.

    0   The CONAPF13i s in charge of coordinating financial policies, while, at the same
        time, has the attribution to propose prudential regulations to be approved by
        Presidential Decrees.

    0   The Central Bank has responsibilities over financial institutions with respect to
        reserve requirements, the provision of liquidity, international financial operations,
        and oversight of the payment systems.

    0   The Systemic Restructuring Team (SRT)-a                   high level group, chaired by the
        President of the BCB, and also comprised of the Minister of Finance, the Minister
        of Sustainable Development, the Vice-Minister of Financial Affairs, and the
        Superintendent of Banks-is          responsible for coordinating the management of the
        financial sector crisis.
The coordination mechanism in place looks quite convoluted. First, the CONAPFI,
which i s the formal coordination mechanism, i s ill designed to achieve proper
coordination, and it has never met. Second, while the MED i s responsible for
coordinating the decision taking on financial matters, the VMFS (from the MOF)
coordinates the relationship between the government and the superintendencies o f the
SIREFI. The attributions of the MED lack precision and need to be more specifically
defined.

Finally, Bolivia's institutional framework for bank supervision has experienced
frequent and significant changes over the past decade. Four major changes in nine
years include the successive creation and elimination of various bodies to approve
prudential regulation, coordinate financial policies, and to oversee or control the SBEF.
These succession of institutional arrangements are costly and may hinder the
establishment of a strong supervisory body with enough authority to demand prompt
corrective actions and enforce compliance with regulations. However, the resilience of
recent achievements regarding legal clarity of financial supervisory and regulatory
powers to several institutional changes, the IMF's SBA, the Letter o f Sector
Development Policy and existing institutional reforms provide reassurance about the
government's commitment to maintain achievements supported under the Loadcredit.

Financial independence of the SBEF was also challenged by Decree 26816. While the
budget of the SBEF i s funded by fees charged to supervised entities, according to a rate


  The National Council for Financial Policies (Consejo Nacional de Politicas Financieras) was created by
the Bonosol Law and charged with coordinating banking, financial, pensions, securities, and insurance
policies. Formed by the Ministers of Planning and Sustainable Development and Finance, and the President
of the BCB, it never held a meeting. Furthermore, the new Decree 27230 that re-organizes the Executive
Branch does not even mention this council.

  The agencies with attributions to approve or propose regulation at various points in time include the
Central Bank, the Ministry of Economic Development, the CONFIP and the CONAPFI. The agencies in
charge of coordination include the CONFIP and the CONAPFI. The agencies with the attribution to
oversee, control or have tutorship of the SBEF include the SRJ, the General Superintendency of SIREFI,
and the Vice Ministerof Financial Services, within the Ministry of Finance.



                                                    58

set on the basis of their total assets and off-balance sheet items, ensuring thus autarchy,
the publication of this decree prevented, in fact, the SBEF to readily use its funds.
According to the decree, the deposits maintained by the SBEF at Central Bank accounts
were transferred to a Consolidated Treasury Account (SIGMA), which includes all the
government funds. While the SBEF maintains the ownership of the funds, there is a risk
that funds deposited in the Consolidated Treasury Account be used for fiscal purposes or
to fund other sector Superintendencies.       Since the SBEF's funds were diluted into
SIGMA, the SBEF has had difficulties in accessing its funds as approval from the
Treasury i s required. To address these concerns, budgetary procedures were reformedby
Decree of October 2002, and implemented through Interinstitutional Agreement of
November 2003, ensuringtimely access of the SBEF to its budgetary resources within the
SIGMA framework, while maintaininghighstandards of transparency and accountability.




                                              59

60

                                       ANNEX IV
                  SUMMARY OF BOLIVIANPRUDENTIALREGULATIONS

        The progression of prudential regulations, towards international standards,
had been a continuum inBolivia since the SBEF was given autonomy inthe mid-SO
until the recent years. The most salient milestones of these regulations were (i)      the
strengthening of the capital adequacy rules (increasing the capital adequacy requirement
from 8% to 10% and adopting new, more aligned with Basel, weights for risk assets); (ii)
new loan classification and provisioning rules based on repayment capacity and expected
losses    (including prohibition of related-party lending); (iii)new on- and off-site
supervisory methodology (based on CAMELS) and strategy, intended to be both
preventive and pro-active, aimed at discovering-and      tackling-   problems at an early
stage (microfinance, integral supervision, more stringent penalties for breaches of
statute); (iv) enhanced disclosure of banks' financial information, along with enhanced
external audit function;     (v) increased powers of supervisors in terms of prompt
corrective action (including the capacity to demand increase capital; the change of
shareholders, managers; or internal control systems; or even to intervene and sell banks).

        However, in the midst of the economic crisis and the incubation of the social
crisis, the Bolivian government disrupted this process by weakening prudential
standards, in an attempt to get out of the economic slump by promoting lending.
Thus, prudentialregulation inBolivia sufferedfrom government interference inanumber
of occasions, by issuing loan classification and provisioning rules that are entrusted by
the Banking Law to the SBEF. The Bolivian loan classification and provisioning
requirements had been strengthened in 1999 by the introduction of credit classification
standards based on repayment capacity of the debtor instead of the value of collateral, as
before, and more stringent provisioning rules. The SBEF regulation included a schedule
for the gradual constitution by March 2004 of the additional provisions resulting from the
new scheme. However, these strict provisioning requirements were relaxed by six
Presidential Decrees issued between October 2000 and November 2002. Among other
things these decrees: extended the schedule for the gradual constitution of provisions;
reinstated the value of collateral as an element in the determination of required
provisions; established that reprogrammed loans need not to be downgraded; and
provided an incentive to banks to expand their credit portfolio by allowing them to count
as tier two capital their provisions against normal loans if credit grew by more than 5
percent between November 2002 and March 2003.

        Albeit this strategy of forbearance has proven to be wrong. Due to the
unstable social situation, now is not the right time for re-introducing all the previous
set of prudential rules; thus, corrections will have to be introduced more gradually.
As of December 20003, the SBEF will issue new rules for refinanced loans, which will
incorporate provisions to impede unjustified upgrading of banks into better categories as
well as unwarranted liberation of loan-loss reserves. Fromthen on, SBEF will implement
a detailed plan to cope with current regulatory shortcomings in a prioritized fashion.
Many of the pending regulations have already been drafted-or      are at an advance degree
of elaboration. The new regulations, to be issued and implemented in the coming years,



                                            61

include accounting rules in line with U S ; more exacting requirements for external
auditors, asset valuation experts, and rating companies; comprehensive rules for risk
management; norms for the monitoring and management o f market and liquidity risks;
regulations for the supervision of financial conglomerates; and more harsher penalties for
breach of regulations.

    At present, Bolivia has a set of prudential banking regulations inspired in
internationalbest practices'. The most salient differences are summarizedbelow:

    Solvency and the definition of capital. While Bolivia's capital requirement of 10
    percent o f risk-weighted assets i s slightly higher than the minimum Base1 standard,
    the definition of capital includes elements that cannot be used to absorb losses. The
    debt issued by banks under the PROFOPprogram, which i s included as subordinated
    debt, is not effectively subordinated as it has an acceleration clause that could be
    triggered at NAFIBO's request. Moreover capital adequacy requirements consider
    only credit but not market risk.

    Loan loss provisioning requirements. Current provisioning requirements depart from
    best practices in such aspects as the way repayment capacity i s assessed, undue
    consideration i s given to collateral2, and the maintenance o f risk classification after
    refinancing. Moreover, government-granted forbearance, in addition to the problems
    mentioned above, has affected the transparency o f financial statements and curtailed
    the SBEF capacity to initiate early corrective actions.

    Risk management requirements. Bolivia has made some progress in the
    implementation of a risk-based approach to banking supervision. Albeit, the SBEF
    supervisory processes include an evaluation of credit, liquidity and operational risks,
    and on-site examination reports include specific recommendations regarding the
    management and control of these risks, the enforcement capacity of the SBEF
    recommendations may be limited, as no regulation has yet been issued requiring
    banks to have a comprehensive risk management system in place, and there are no
    specific regulations regarding proper market risk, country risk, liquidity risk or
    operational risk management. The Bolivian financial system i s highly dollarized and
    most of banks' assets are dollar denominated; however, most of the banks' debtors
    have boliviano-denominated income.         The credit risk resulting from the foreign
    exchange open position of debtors i s not specifically addressed by prudential
    regulation.   Thus, a substantial devaluation of the boliviano would weaken the
    financial position of banks and could drastically reduce the net worth of an important
    fraction of the banks inthe system.




 Needless to say, the rules for loan classification and provisioning depart greatly from
international best practices.

 For instance, the current rule would allow the use o f the same asset to collateralize more
than one loan, with the same level of coverage.



                                             62

0 Early remedial measures and exit policy. The cornerstone of the prompt corrective
  action framework introduced by changes to the Banking Law in December 2001, i s
  the early detection of problem banks. However, the relaxation of the asset valuation
  rules brought by the Presidential Decrees previously mentioned may indeed delay the
  activation of the regularization process, thus retarding the implementation of
  corrective measures and reducing their effectiveness. Moreover, some o f the most
  important indicators that would trigger the regularization process have yet to be
  regulated, and are non-operative.     In addition, the regularization process is not
  enforceable for the Savings & Loans institutions and Credit Cooperatives, to which
  the LBEF will only apply after May 2004, thus they enjoy a period of capital
  forbearance until December 2004 (article 16 of Law 2196).

0 Consolidated supervision. Consolidated supervision in Bolivia i s in a preliminary
  stage. The latest modification of the Banking Law empowers the SBEF to perform
  consolidated    supervision   of  financial  conglomerates    (article  154.3,   but
  complimentary regulation i s required to have an effective supervision of these
  conglomerates, including consolidated reporting, prudential limits, and risk
  management. The importance of consolidated supervision was made evident during
  the 2002 deposit run, during which for some financial conglomerates a run that had
  started at the mutual and investment funds was subsequently followed b y a run on the
  related banking institutions.  It was also observed that during the run, the banks
  purchased investments of their related mutual funds at above market prices inorder to
  limit the investors' losses.




                                         63


                                                ANNEX V
       FRAMEWORKPURCHASEANDASSUMPTIONOFFINANCIAL
                         FOR                                                         INSTITUTIONS



1.       According to the Banking Law, the SBEF can carry out purchase and
assumption (P&A) operations under intervention, focusing on the protection of
"privileged liabilities". This entails the transfer of these "privileged liabilities" (mainly
deposits) to one or several existing sound banks, covered either by senior claims on a
privately administered trust that contains part or all o f the assets of the intervenedbank or
by the transfer of all of such assets directly.' To facilitate P&As, public sector creditors
(including the BCB) of the failed bank can accept subordinated claims issued by the
mentioned trust and make additional but limited contributions (in cash or bonds) to
enhance the trust in exchange for subordinated claims on it. Following the P&A, the
SBEF would remove the license of the failed bank and send the residual balance sheet on
to judicial liquidation?

2.       The law permits BCB contributions (requiring their recognition in the
Government's budget) only transitorily, until January 2005, and up to the
equivalent of 50 percent of deposit^.^                   After that, only the so-called "Financial
Restructuring Fund" (FRF, a sort of industry-funded deposit insurance fund) could make
that type of contributions, up to the equivalent of 30 percent of deposits. Nevertheless,
the BCB has an unboundedoption (not an obligation) to stand behind depositors andbuy
bank assets, as per Art. 38 of its charter. This provides a flexibility that may be useful in
managing systemic crises, but it also carries major risks. It fosters moral hazard and, in
particular, opens the door for the BCB to be pressured into bailing out not just depositors
but also non-depositor creditors and even the shareholders of unviable banks.

3.       The following hypotheticalnumeric example illustrates the P&A operation as
dictated by the BankingLaw, for a case of a bank under intervention (with low but
positive capital for illustration purposes). This i s a process similar to that implemented
for the recent intervention of Mutual "La Frontera".

                                         Balance Sheet of BankX
               Total Assets                        100 Total Liabilities                     90
               Cash and LiquidAssets                  8 Privileged Liabilities               78
               PerformingLoans                       40           o/w 1storder               50
               Non PerformingLoans                   20           olw 2nd order              20
               FixedAssets and Collateral            10 Non-Privileged Liabilities           12
               Other Assets                          14Capital                                2



'Theformer    reduces the need to engage in due-diligence processes, particularly useful to increase the
likelihood to resolve a failing bank in a very short period of time, thus minimizing systemic risk.

  This approach is equivalent to Art. 35Bis. of the Argentinean BankingLaw.

  This was indeedthe case inthe intervention of Mutual "La Frontera", where nevertheless coverage of
deposits was augmented through a direct transfer from the Treasury.



                                                      65

4.       The "GoodBank" portion of Bank X i s carved out of its Balance Sheet to ensure
the honoring of privileged Liabilities.       The transfer starts with the first-order (and
possibly second order) privileged liabilities, matched on the asset side by Bank X's cash
and liquid assets as available, complemented b y certificates issued b y the Trust created
for any given P&A to reach zero capital. Following this operation, the "Good Bank" i s
ready to be sold to one or several existing sound banks. A clear advantage of P&A i s its
timeliness, giving rise to an efficient solution.

                                 BalanceSheet of Good Bank
              otal Assets



                                                CaDital


5.       The Trust assumes all loans, fixed assets and collateral of Bank X and receives
contributions by FRF and possibly, under given circumstances, from the BCB (through
art. 38) or even directly from the Treasury. It draws on its assets, whose volume i s
uncertain and dependent on the recovery value o f loans and other seized assets, to issue
Certificates with the purpose of covering Bank X's first order liabilities, second order
liabilities, and FRF/BCB contributions.       The order for honoring these claims on the
Trust's resources need not necessarily follow this example, as alternatively Class C could
override seniority of Class A claims.         The more solvent the Trust, the higher the
likelihood of selling the "Good Bank" portion of Bank X to a purchasing (solvent) bank,
since the interested buyer will compare the size o f the certificate it receives with the
expected value of the assets under the trust.

                                    BalanceSheet of Trust
             Total Assets                    85)Total Liabilities                85
             Performing Loans                40 Certificates Class A (1st order) 42
             Non PerformingLoans             20 Certificates Class B (2nd order) 28
             FixedAssets and Collateral      10 Certificates Class C (FRF)       15
             FRF and BCB Contributions        15




             Total Assets                    14 Total Liabilities                14
             Other Assets                    14 Non-Privileged Liabilities       12
                                                Capital                           2




                                               66

                                           ANNEX VI
                     OPERATINGPRINCIPLESAND PROCEDURES OF THE
                   FONDO APOYODELSISTEMAFINANCIERO
                           DE                                    (FASF)

1.      Introduction. The Bolivian Government i s modernizing and strengthening the
financial sector's legal and regulatory framework.          The new banking legislation
establishes an efficient bank resolution mechanism that goes from regularization plans (in
case of capital deficiency, among others causes) to an interventionprocess.

2.      To assist in the process of bank regularizatiodconsolidation, the government i s
working to establish a "Fondo de Apoyo del Sistema Financiero" (FASF). The FASF
will participate, through different instruments, together with the private sector in the
capitalization o f private banks.

3.      Elements of a successful implementation of the FASF. Elements that will
assist the FASF to operate successfully include a resolution mechanism (and enough
funds for its implementation) for banks with negative equity or that are economically
non-viable; a prudential regulatory framework in line with Base1 principles; a
Superintendency of Banks with enough capacity and resources to enforce the
implementation of the regulatory framework; a realistic diagnosis of the equity position
of the entities; and a critical mass of solvent banks with adequate internal policies and
with adequatemanagement.

4.      FASF's operating principles and procedures. The remainder of this Annex sets
the basis for the elaboration of the operating principles and procedures o f the FASF:

    1. BasicDefinitions
    2. Operating Manual
    3. Eligibility Conditions for Participating Banks
    4. Legal Structure and Participants




'FASF:Fondo   deAsistencia del Sector Financiero


                                                67

                                 FASF:BASICDEFINITIONS

1.      Mission of the FASF. The mission of the FASF will be to provide resources to
strengthen the equity position of qualifying private banks.

2.      Objectives. The objectives of the FASF are to strengthen the solvency and
stability of the financial system; to generate the solvency conditions to allow a stable and
sustained development of the financial sector; and to facilitate and promote the
participation o f the private sector inthe capitalization plans.

3.      Resourcesof the FASF. To meet its objectives, the FASF will obtain resources
from international organizations, the Ministry of Finance, and through the recuperation of
the loans it makes and/or sale of the instruments that it acquires in its operations.

4.      Operatingprinciples. In order to achieve its objectives, the FASF will operate
in accordance to principles clearly defined in its Operating Manual (OM). Basic
principles could include:

a) Transparency and technical criteria. Operation and decisions of the FASF on the
    basis of technical criteria clearly defined, subject to verification and well known by
    the parties involved.;
b) Market principles. Decisions of the FASF with respect to the provision of funds
    based on private investment criteria, within the framework of its mission;
c) Equal treatment.       All financial entities with similar problems receiving equal
    treatment. Banks' requests evaluated by the same parameters and on the same criteria
    inall cases;
d) Temporality. Investments of the FASF in the banks to be temporary and to be
    reimbursed, or sold, within a prudentialtime frame;
e) Priority of private funding. Participating operations of the FASF giving priority to
    the provision of private funds, minimizing public funds' provision.;
f) No state control. The operations in which the FASF participates to not have as a
    result the control by the FASFof the shares of a bank; and
g) No subsidies. Participating operations of the FASF not being a subsidy to the current
    private shareholders (better capitalization of the bank as a result of the participation
    of the FASFnot considered a subsidy).

5.      Operations in which the FASF can participate. In function of the guidelines
established in its O M and the regulation on Eligibility Conditions o f Participating Banks,
the FASFwill participate in operations such as:

a) Incorporation of excluded assets and liabilities. Assist bank(s) that acquire the assets
    and liabilities excluded by the board o f exclusion;
b) Merger processes. Assist banks ina merger process approved by the SBEF;
c) Purchases or acquisitions.        Assist the acquiring banks that have agreed on the
    purchase or absorption of smaller banks and have the approval o f the SBEF.




                                              68

6.      Capitalization instruments to be used by the FASF. In order to carry out its
mission, the FASF will have the faculty to use a range of instruments, where the choice
of instruments in each case will be subject to government definition trough regulation.
One of these instrumentswill be Subordinated Loans.

7.      All the capitalization operations of the FASF to be made in cash, in dollars,
bolivianos or UFVs. The O M will define the currency in which the operations will be
made. The conditions of the loans will be more favorable when they are complemented
by private fresh capital injections. If the loan i s in dollars, the interest rate of the loan,
should not be less than the one paid by the Ministry of Finance for these resources. Ifthe
loan i s in bolivianos or UFVs, the interest rate should not be less than the market
determined reference rate. The amount of the capitalization operations will be bound by
rules set out inthe OM.

8.      Guarantees. Incases of FASF support for mergers and regularization plans, the
FASF could obtain guarantees from the shareholders, if the instruments used are
convertible obligations or subordinated loans.

9.      Eligibility conditions of participating banks. The eligibility conditions of
participating banks will be described in the Regulation on Eligibility Conditions for
Participating Banks. This regulation will expand on the following principles: (a) that
only private banks can participate and (b) that in no case banks with negative equity or
that are unviable can be eligible. Neither banks with doubtful information over their
financial status or over the financial group to which they belong, could be eligible.

10.     Private sector participation. As a general rule, the FASF will participate in
proportion to the fund contribution of the shareholders of the banks (the larger the
shareholders' contribution, the larger the FASF's participation). The O M may foresee
exceptions and the reasons for them.

11.     Conditionality. The FASF could impose different conditionality to the banks to
be capitalized (limits on the operations, prohibition to distribute dividends, no assistance
to related parties, etc.) according to the type of operation used for the capitalization and
the particular conditions of each bank. The assets of the FASF will be publicly offered
and adjudicated to the best offer, on the terms specified inthe OM.

12.     Authorities of the FASF. The FASF will have an Executive Committee. This
could possibly include the Minister of Finance, the President of the BCB, and the
Superintendent of Banks, or the persons that they designate.

 13.    Legal structure.        The FASF will have the structure o f a Trusteeship
(Fideicomiso) in accordance with the current legislation. The legal form of the FASF
will be described inthe document: Legal Structure and Participants.

 14.    Evaluation and follow up. The FASF will be able to hire an auditing company
for the analysis and follow up of the operations in which it participates. BCB and the



                                              69

SBEF will provide the information and decisions about the banks requiredby the FASF
to carry out its mission.

15.    Life span. The FASF will dissolve once its mission has been completed,
following the decision of its Executive Committee.




                                          70

                                FASF: OPERATING      MANUAL

1.       The OM will establish the procedures and criteria for the operation of the FASF.
It will incorporate the definitions contained in: a) Basic Definitions of the FASF, and b)
Legal Structure and Participants of the FASF. In addition, the OM will consider the
following aspects:

2.       Instruments. The OM will describe the characteristics and conditions of the
different instruments that the FASF can utilize to capitalize the banks. Among these
instruments, the FASFwill utilize subordinated loans.

3.       Amount of the capitalization operations. The OM will define the maximum
amount of the funds that the FASF can provide in each of the operations in which it
participates, according to the type of operation.

4.       To establish the amount of each operation, consideration will be taken of
parameters such as: i)relationship between the contribution of the shareholders and the
FASF; and ii)relationship between the contribution of the FASF and the capital
requirement of the bank. The operation should not result in the FASF controlling the
equity of the bank.

5.       Stages of the capitalization process. This section of the OM will develop the
following points:

a) Presentation of the request for assistance by the banks.         The OM will define the
    characteristics and requirements to be met by the entities that request FASF
    assistance. This section will define the documentation that the banks will present
    together with their request, according to the type of operation contemplated. The
    documentation should include reports of the capital situation of the entity, business
    plan, policy of honoraries and other retributions of directors and managers, situation
    of related enterprises, plan of action of the entity, commitment of shareholders'
    contributions. The information provided should be on a consolidated basis o f all the
    enterprises that participateinthe group and based on SBEF evaluation criteria.
b) Evaluation of the requests. The OM will define the evaluation processes and the
    general evaluation criteria.

6.       Response of the FASF to the assistance requests. The OM will establish the
procedures and time frame for the response of the FASFto the assistance requests. It will
also establish the basic elements that will be taken into account for the evaluation of the
requests, including capitalization, structure of assets, quality of management, profits, and
liquidity.

7.       Disbursement of the approved capitalization operations. The OM will define
the procedures and time frame for the disbursement o f the approved operations.




                                              71

8.      Conditionality and sanctions. The OM will describe the conditionality and
sanctions (penalties) that the FASF may require from and impose on the assisted banks.
According to the type of operation, the OM will contemplate, among others, the
following conditionalities: obligation to submit information, limitations to risky
operations, restrictions to distribution of profits, limits to honoraries and retributions for
the top management, prohibition to carry out specific activities, etc.

9.      Criteria for the management of FASF's assets. The OM will establish the
guidelines and policies for the management of FASF's assets. It will specify the policy to
sell the assets that it generates through its operations.

10.     Other normative aspects. The OM will consider aspects such as the procedures
for its modification.




                                               72

    FASF: REGULATION ONELIGIBILITYCONDITIONSFOR PARTICIPATINGBANKS


1.      This regulation will establish the eligibility conditions of the banks receiving
assistance from the FASF.

2.      The eligible banks are of two types:

            a)      Banks with insufficient capital, but with a positive net equity position,
                    which are economically viable and have adequate management and
                    controls;
           b)       Banks that have enough capital, but want to participate in a process of
                    purchase of excluded assets and liabilities or in an absorption process.
                    These entities need to have received a good qualification from the
                    SBEF.

3.      Non eligible for FASF support will be banks with the following characteristics:

        a)      negative net equity;
        b)      with doubtful financial information;
        c>      that do not have a viable business;
        d)      with unresolved matters with the SBEF;
        e>      with doubtful information about the financial group to which they belong;
        f )     public banks.

4.      Evaluation of the eligibility of the banks will be on criteria defined by the SBEF
norms, applied on a consolidated basis to the economic group to which they belong. The
evaluation of participating banks will be based on uniform parameters and criteria for all
banks.

5.      The FASF will request from BCB and SBEF all the reports and dispositions
issued necessary to carry out its operations. The FASF will not carry out by itself the
inspection or verification of the participating banks, but will be able to contract external
audits that it considers necessary. It i s important to prevent the FASF from becoming a
supervisory authority parallel to the SBEF or to generate an expensive operating
structure.




                                             73

                    FASFLEGAL       STRUCTURE AND PARTICIPANTS


1.     This regulation will establish the legal structure and the participants inthe FASF.

2.     The FASF will act as a private institutional investor, according to the guidelines
of the OM. For this, the FASF will have an autonomous structure, management and
organizational capabilities under the principles of healthy and prudential management.

3.     External audits. The FASF will be subject to external audits by internationally
       recognized auditing firms. The external auditor will audit the books and financial
       statements of the FASF and its compliance with the commitments under the
       capitalization operations.




                                            74

                                      ANNEX VI1
                             CORPORATE    SECTOR DIAGNOSIS


The first step in designing a corporate restructuring program should be a sound
diagnosis of corporate problems. Best practices in corporate restructuring programs
indicate that, without a good diagnosis of corporate problems, the basis on which to
define the program lacks precision.     It is crucial to investigate carefully where the
problems lie and what i s their nature. Identifying which sectors, types of companies,
geographical areas, etc, are more prone to problems helps target the program to the right
recipients. Understanding the nature of problems helps design effective mechanisms to
solve them.

With this recommendation, Bolivian authorities have launched work to conduct a
multi-step detailed diagnosis of corporate problems. The diagnosis was initiated in
the context of the FSAP work on the corporate sector. It was then refined in a dedicated
Economic and Sector Work Bank paper. Bolivian authorities subsequently recruited
international consultants to deepen the diagnosis further, working together. Their work i s
described below.

First, a comprehensive corporate database has been built to help identify the
location and nature of problem loans. The database was originally nourished with data
on bad loans collected by the SBEF. It was then enriched with data on corporate arrears
with Bolivian tax authorities and pension funds. This allowed the identification of the
nature of bad debtors. The main conclusions that can be reached from the database are
summarized in Box 1. Due to the sensitive nature of the data used, the database i s
maintainedby the SBEF on a confidential basis. It i s regularly updated (although not yet
incorporating other sources of data), and has already become a useful tool to monitor the
corporate sector's health.

Second, questionnaires have been sent to banks and corporations to help
understand the nature of corporate problems and thereafter define adequate
corporate restructuring measures. Questionnaires have been sent to each bank asking
them to anonymously identify potential candidates among their clients for a restructuring,
and describe the type of measures they believe would make these clients solvent again.
Only six banks responded, identifying a total of 46 companies. The same questionnaire
has been sent to the Business Association of Bolivia, in order to get the corporate sector's
perspective on the type of restructuring required. Under that umbrella, five companies
returned the questionnaire.     A dedicated team at the SBEF has processed the 51
questionnaires received. They provide useful insights on the type and extent of corporate
restructuringmeasures needed (see Box 2).

Third, the analysis has been refined with direct interviews with selected
corporations. The companies that were visited are large successful Bolivian companies,
with substantial employment in El Alto, which was more heavily affected during the
recent social disturbances leading to the forced resignation of President Siinchez de



                                            75

Lozada. Both of them have a rapidly increasing order book, mostly from international
clients in the US and elsewhere, profitable operations, but are in dear need of finding new
financing, to finance the expansion required to meet their growing order book and for
working capital needs. Because of their nearly total lack of access to capital, the
companies are overdue on their bank debt, salaries and pension obligations, although the
state owns both of them substantial amounts of tax credit.


Box 1: Corporatedata baseanalysis




                                            76

Box 2: Corporate sector surveys




                                  77

78

                                       ANNEX VI11
     LEGAL INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORKFORCORPORATERESTRUCTURING
              AND



The recent enactment of the voluntary restructuring law is the first step in the
design and implementation of an efficient and effective legal and institutional
framework for corporate restructuring. The government's recent commitment to
begin the process to revise the commercial code is also most welcome. Some urgent
issues regarding Due Progress and Priority of Claims need to be addressed with regard to
the informal corporate workouts in the Bolivian context. On Due Process, it must be
ensured that (i) Debtors can only file for the proceedings if they are or are on the verge of
being unable to service their obligations as they fall due; (ii)  The regime of adjudication
of losses i s consistent with the order of priority of claims, except if agreed to otherwise
by individual affected creditors; and (iii) Superintendency of Enterprises does not
                                             The
make the final decision upon claims under litigation, which should be escrowed and not
released to the claimant until the dispute i s resolved by the relevant authority. On
Priority of Claims, it must be ensured that a restructuring agreement cannot treat lower
ranking creditors equally or more favorably than higher-ranking creditors. Furthermore,
with regard to corporate insolvency, it i s crucial to address its stigmatic nature, given that
insolvency i s considered a crime under the current framework.

However, additional measures should be taken to ensure that the restructuring
process begins and works effectively. Below is a summarized list of the key issues
recommended, based on international experience, to increase likelihood of success of
such process. Not all of them need to be addressed with the same urgency, or priority.
Each of them separately does not constitute therefore loan conditionality. Rather, they
constitute directions for future reforms, to be defined in accordance with the guiding
principles for corporate restructuring summarized inBox 1.

A.      Institutional framework to implement the corporate restructuring process

    0   Design, enact and implement legal and institutional measures and incentives
        to create an enabling environment for corporate restructurings conducted
        out-of-court or with minimal involvement of a formal authority.                  Basic
        elements of an informal resolution process are described in Box 1. While the
        newly enacted informal law addresses some of these elements, the government
        should move to implement the entire framework. This new approach would need
        to be supported by the initiation of a full-scale implementation plan at the earliest
        possible time.

    0   Make the Superintendencia de Empresas fully operational. Following the
        resignation of the Superintendent, a new one must be appointed. Furthermore, the
        currently envisioned informal workout process cannot function unless or until the
        Superintendence i s fully operational.           This requires: reappointment of
        Superintendent the soonest; staff needs (numbers, qualifications, and functions)
        have been identified; infrastructure obtained (office space, desks, equipment,



                                              79

    etc.); and requirements for additional technical assistance identified and obtained.
    Given the current time restraints, a time bound detailed action plan to make the
    Superintendencia operational needs to be put inplace as quickly as possible.

    Identify first candidates eligible for restructuring and work with banks and
    corporations to begin the process. Given the current lack of experience and
    trust among the parties, it i s unlikely that the process will begin naturally. The
    Systemic Restructuring Team, after consultation with both banks and borrowers,
    should identify high priority candidates for restructuring, facilitate the initiation
    and monitor the process to ensure its correct application. These initial candidates
    should be deemed to have a highprobability of success so that the program can be
    seen as successful from the beginning.

  0 Conduct training and educational outreach programs to prepare both banks
    and their borrowers to participate in corporate restructuring.                 Given
    Bolivia's lack of experience in corporate restructuring it will be necessary for the
    government to conduct an aggressive outreach program to explain both the need
    for restructuring and the rules under which it i s to be conducted. Topics to be
    covered could include: negotiation skills, common reasons for corporate distress
    and potential solutions, restructuring techniques, writing a business plan, etc.


B.  Creditor rights and enforcement

  0 Expedite judicial mechanisms for enforcing unsecured credit, including
    "summary proceeding" mechanisms for obtaining judgments where there i s no
    real and substantial dispute about the debt, as well as a swift hearing process to
    return the goods if appropriate.

  0 Improve the currently ineffective system for enforcement of judicial
    decisions at the execution stage of civil and commercial proceedings, by: (a)
    entitling secured creditors to appoint appraisers and auctioneers; (b) permitting
    the immediate sale, without any minimumprice requirement, when the appraised
    value i s not obtained in the first round o f the auction; (c) restricting challenges
    and appeals to the valuation; and, (d) assuring preservation of collateral value and
    the sale of collateral or seized assets at real market value, and introducing reforms
    inrelevant legislation as necessary.

  0 Reform the ranking of priorities to assign a higher degree to secured rights.
    The government's recent commitment to revise the regulations governing the
    voluntary law to make clearer that creditors are ranked in accordance with the
    provisions of the current Commerce Code are a step in the right direction. But
    additional improvements should be considered in the forthcoming revisions of the
    Code.

    Enact a comprehensive law for secured transactions. (Ley sobre garantius).

  0 Solve tax issues that prevent a widespread use of leasing contracts.

  0 Create and implement an inexpensive, efficient and centralized registration
    system, for all registries related with property and creditor rights.


                                          80

C.  Insolvency legislation

    Extend eligibility criteria of insolvency legislation to encompass state owned
    enterprises and non-merchant legal entities (juridicalpersonae).

  0 Deprive the Bolivian system of its highly stigmatic nature. Fraudulent conduct
    should be effectively dealt with under the law, but insolvency should not be
    automatically identified with fraud. Legal presumption of fraud associated with
    bankruptcy and arrest powers of insolvency judges, should be abrogated.
    Insolvency itself should not be considered a crime. Bankruptcy related crimes
    should be governed by the Penal Code and dealt with by criminal courts.

  0 Enhance the participation of creditors in insolvency proceedings, allowing
    and encouraging the creation of creditor committees (intewentores) in
    reorganization and liquidation. All creditors to be appointed as intewentores
    should be designated by the rest of the creditors. Interventores or creditor
    committees should give their opinion whenever the debtor intends to perform acts
    that exceed the normal course of business. Responsibilities and potential liabilities
    of the intewentores should be better clarified. Fees of creditors' committees or
    intewentores shall be paid by the debtor in reorganization and from the bankrupt
    estate inliquidation, in accordance with the work effectively performed.

  0 Modernize legal treatment of contracts and obligations in insolvency
    proceedings. At least: (a) A more updated approach to deal with swap
    agreements and derivatives transactions; and, (b) Allow the counterpart to the
    contract to opt to reject the agreement when after a certain period there i s no duly
    notified specific intention to continue performing the contract.

  0 Reformulate treatment of secured creditors with rights "in rem", both in
    insolvency proceedings and outside of insolvency process: (a) Improve their
    substantial rights by limiting the current higher privileges of tax and labor claims;
    (b) Enforcement actions of secured creditors in insolvency proceedings should be
    subject to stays of limited duration; (c) Remedies for depreciation of collateral
    should be established; (d) Request for early termination of the stay should be
    permitted; (e) Secured creditors should not be deprived of rights over collateral;
    (f) Legal frameworks regulating security over assets and bankruptcy proceedings
    mustboth respond to acommon policy andbe compatible.

  0 Consideration should be given to ways of protecting employee losses outside
    of the bankruptcy processunder a social protection fund.

  0 Amend several aspects of reorganization process (concurso preventivo),
    namely:(a) Enable flexible classification of credits for voting purposes of different
    proposals o f reorganization plans; (b) Majority requirements in all classes to
    approve a plan; (c) Voting rights determined by amount o f debts; (d) Clear criteria
    for plan approval based on fairness to similar creditors, recognition of relative
    priorities and majority acceptance, eliminating the rest o f the currently in force
    discretionary powers of the judge to disapprove a reorganization plan otherwise



                                          81

    approved by the legally required majority of creditors; (e) Abrogation of several
    dispositions that force the conversion of reorganization into liquidation where
    certain requirements of the former are not accomplished; (f)Establish a fast track
    procedure to allowing judicial approval of out-of-court agreements, where these
    have been approved by the reorganization plan required majorities, in order to
    make these plans binding to dissenting minorities ("prepackaged plans"); (g)
    Provide for a commercially sound form of priority funding during the rescue
    process, subject to appropriate safeguards; (h) Provide for approval over the
    rejection of minority creditors if the plan complies with rules of fairness and
    offers the opposing creditors or classes an amount equal to or greater than would
    be received under a liquidation proceeding; (i)     Introduce some provision for
    possible adjournment of a plan decision meeting, but under strict time limits; (i)
    Allow creditors to vote posterior amendments to the plan when these
    modifications are intheir own interest.

  0 Adopt modern rules -such as the UNCITRAL Model Law on Cross-Border
    Insolvency- to deal with international aspects of cross-border insolvencies.


D.  Regulatory framework

  0 Implement measures for restoring public confidence in the judicial system.
    Assign jurisdiction on insolvency matters exclusively to specialized courts to
    be created in the country's largest commercial centers, following these
    criteria: (a) A sound process for selecting highly qualified and well trainedjudges,
    free of political influence and partisanship, patronage and conflicts of interest as
    well as localism. A sound knowledge of commercial practice and basic principles
    of business and finance, as well as specific knowledge of insolvency legislation,
    are desirable minimum standards; (b) Remuneration above the current average
    judicial salary to attract the best candidates; (c) Equally highly skilled staff and
    sufficient material infrastructure to be provided to these courts; (d) Permanent
    training of judges and judicial staff; (e) A system should be adopted to measure
    the competence, performance and service of courts; (0 Insolvency law should be
    supplemented by sensible, predictable and flexible rules and regulations to better
    manage cases and streamline procedures; (g) Ensure ready access to court records
    and court hearings; (h) The insolvency law should encourage the use of
    alternative techniques such as arbitration or mediation to resolve disputes; (i)
    Clear legal rules should establish remedies to address improprieties, including
    complaint and investigation procedures. An ethics code should be developed with
    the participation of judges. In addition, a public complaint process should be
    established.    A committee of senior judges should be set up to advise their
    colleagues on ethical issues.

  0 Several legal amendments should be taken to ensure sound performance of
    sindicos: (a) Require insolvency qualification exam and licensing; (b) Continuing
    education on insolvency issues at both technical and practical levels; (c)
    Designation at random from names included in a specific registry or list of
    qualified candidates, limitingjudicial discretion; (d) Mandatory legal advisement
    for the sindico; (e) All fees and expenses to be paid in insolvency reorganization


                                          82

          and liquidation proceedings should be based on the quality, importance and
          extension of the work performed, and subject to some limits to make predictable
          the cost of the system. Also on this issue judicial discretion should be limited; (0
          Creation and implementation of an independent body responsible for regulating
          and supervising insolvency administrators; and, (g) Setting standards of conduct
          for sindicos.


Box 1: BasicElements of an Informal Corporate Restructuring Process

Under the current circumstances and considering the Bolivian legal and institutional frameworks, the
fundamental components of a functional workout environment would include:

Level plavine field: a functioning restructuring environment depends on a legal framework that facilitates
the restructuring plan, such as allowing debt-equity swaps, forgiveness of bank debt and taking of
collateral, authorizing priority financing for new money. The legal framework must also provide proper
incentives for the parties to accept treatment that will render the restructured business viable. The
Government should remove all tax impediments to corporate restructuring: (a) If debtor gains from
restructuring are currently considered as taxable gains, these tax regulations should be eliminated (e.g.,
favorable offsetting tax treatment for debt forgiveness and debt-equity swaps); (b) Allowing creditors to
deduct losses from corporate debt restructuring for tax purposes. If this only occurs when a restructuring
enters the formal bankruptcy system, tax regulations will need to be changed to recognize voluntary
workouts as well. This would be an important incentive for creditors; (c) Immediate taxation of non-cash
corporate reorganizations such as mergers or spin-offs should be removed, if they exist; (d) Transfer of tax
loss carry forwards to a corporate acquirer or new merged entity. The Government would need to work on
how to incentive future corporate restructurings through new financial instruments and other measures
legally acceptable to financial institutions in Bolivia such as debvequity swaps, convertible bonds, floating
rate notes, term extensions, and others. The banking regulatory authority would need to make a decision on
how banks are to provision in workout cases (this could require forbearance either on provisioning or on
capital adequacy).

Neutral forum: a `forum' in which both debtor and creditors can initially come together for the purpose of
exploring and negotiating an arrangement to deal with the financial difficulty or insolvency of the debtor.

Petition: the workout negotiation process should be opened on petition by a debtor not under other pending
insolvency procedures. Petition by creditors could also be considered.

Participants: the workout process should involve all key constituencies, generally the lenders group, and
sometimes other key creditors who may be affected by the restructuring or are critical to the resolution.

Coordination: to better coordinate negotiations, a `lead' creditor should be appointed to provide important
leadership, organization, and administration.    The lead creditor typically reports to a committee that is
representative of creditors to assist the lead creditor and to act as a provisional sounding board toward
proposals.

Stabilization (option 1): parties need to promptly stabilize the business operations and provide for
negotiation period, which i s generally reflected by a `standstill' agreement (a contractual agreement to
suspend adverse actions by both the debtor and the main creditors) that endures for a relatively short
period. This may be compared with the `moratorium' or stay of actions which is a feature under the formal
rescueprocess in bankruptcy.




                                                      83

Stabilization (option 2): a more structured workout process under the supervision of a legally determined
institution could provide for an automatic and limited standstill of creditor-petitioned bankruptcy
liquidation orders and, with additional requirements, of some forced sales of the debtor's assets.

Liquidity and Access to New Monev: liquidity is essential to stabilize the business, and may be more
difficult to provide in informal workout procedures. This i s because formal bankruptcy laws frequently
provide for a `super-priority' for on-going funding of a debtor, but that law does not extend to informal
arrangements. In these cases, creditors need to devise a contractual super-priority by means of an `inter-
creditor' agreement, which clarifies that emergency funding by one or more creditors will rank for
repayment in advance of their other respective entitlements.

Information:    access to reliable and accurate information on the business is essential to reaching a
consensual agreement, including its business activities, trading position, and general financial statements.
This is comparable to the statutory requirement for the provision of similar disclosure found in formal
rescue regimes.

Negotiation, Agreement & Voting:        negotiating, agreeing and implementing the restructuring plan i s
generally based on agreement among the creditors and the debtor as to the terms and conditions for the
restructuring, and acceptance by a requisite majority of creditors. In the case of new money, obviously no
lender could be forced to extend new financing against its will. Many countries have found it helpful to
adopt the so-called "London Rules" which provide substantive guidance for the conduct of effective
negotiations.

Legally Binding: the final restructuring agreement i s made legally binding on a dissenting minority when:
(i)theyarepartytoaninter-creditoragreementthatcontractuallybindsthemtothemajoritydecision; or,
(ii) lawcreatesamechanismforbindingminority(e.g.: a"prepackaged" reorganizationplanruledby
    the
the Insolvency Law).

Minimum Substantial Law Effect: the procedure should operate on the principle of a minimum substantial
law effect both on the creditor's and the debtor's rights, meaning that only restrictions and sanctions that
are indispensable for the procedure to be operative should be envisaged. All non-indispensable effects on
pre-existent rights should be disregarded even if they may seem convenient under the circumstances.




                                                     84

       I[
       I

                I
              t--,
                I




       I b D
       I  .3

       I        I
       I

       I
       I

       I
       I

       I
       I        I
       I




       I
       I
       I
       I
       I
       I



w
.I
Y


.I
d       I
2;      I
        I
        I
        I
u
@Ez     I
        I
        I
A4      I
3       I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
        I
                 I
                 I


                                        ANNEX X
            RISKASSESSMENT FINANCIAL
                                FOR             MANAGEMENTFRAMEWORK


From the Donor perspective, the World Bank and other financing agencies have seen
their business change considerably in recent years. The relative increase in adjustment
lending, debt relief and sector programs, in place of traditional investment projects has
reduced the relative importance of tracking individual borrower transactions as a source
of fiduciary assurance and highlighted the importance of assessing the country's own
Public Financial Management (PFM) system. Meanwhile, the increasing emphasis by
donors on working with, and improving, government institutions and systems, has
indicated a need to better understand opportunities for enhancing public sector
performance, and thus reducing fiduciary risk.

There i s additionally a demand from the public for government transparency and
accountability. This i s expressed through citizen and political groups, which have gained
significant strength inBolivia over the past several years.

The legal framework governing Bolivia's PFM can be considered as strong, and which
has been built around the 1990 law for financial administration, SAFCO. This law was
designed to promote transparency and legitimacy to the public sector, and specific
regulations were promulgated by 1997 to further define 8 sub-systems (Programming of
Operations, Administrative Organization, Budgeting, Administration of Goods and
Services, Administration of Personnel, Treasury and Public Credit, Integrated
Government Accounting, and System of Government Control).

The law o f Popular Participation forms an additional part of the modernization o f the
public sector and sought to establish a stronger relationship between central government
and civil society. Through this law, state resources (under the law, 20% of national tax
collections are distributed to municipalities) were redistributed through a process of
decentralization of responsibilities, and empowered local level elected officials to define
their development and local spending programs. Under this law, 85% o f transferred
resources should be used for investment purposes, rather than being used to for recurrent
costs.

Lastly, under the law of Decentralization, administrative power i s dispersed from central
administration to the department level (prefecturas, which are the capitals of the
departments). The transfer of administrative power i s supported under the law, by the
provision that 25% of hydrocarbon tax collection i s also transferred to the department
administration.   Similarly, the law provides that 85% of these resources should be
targeted to investment programs, while 15% may be used to meet the demands for
recurrent expenditures.

Under this framework, the law also mandates the annual publication of fiscal accounts,
local tax or revenue collections (e.g., vehicle or property tax) and government financial
statements. However, there currently are no standards that govern the preparation of
annual fiscal accounts, or transparency and quality of fiscal information, particularly at


                                             87

the sub-national or decentralized level of government. The quality and periodicity o f the
publication o f fiscal accounts will be further examined under the CFAA, planned for the
second half of fiscal year 04.

Through the budget, all revenues and expenditure estimates are programmed, with
recurrent expenditures compromising approximately 60% o f the budget.           Under the
budget law, public institutions, decentralized agencies and decentralized governments
(prefecturas and municipalities) are required to present budget proposals along
programmatic lines (aligning resource allocation along priority government programs and
the Bolivian Poverty Reduction Strategy - EBRP) and not merely indicate a proposed
resource allocation along economic budget lines.         However, the government i s still
developing of a system to identify all poverty reduction related expenditures and
currently it is difficult to clearly determine, through the budget, which recurrent
expenditures are targeted for or are supporting poverty reduction programs.

Under the law SAFCO, government fiscal controls are ex-post, and directed under the
joint responsibilities of Congress, the Contraloria General de la Repdblica (Supreme
Audit Institution), Vigilance Committees and the Social Control Mechanism (community
and civil society groups). Congress (through its technical committee) exercises its role
mainly through a review of the annual report on fiscal accounts, and the community
groupskommittees relies heavily on the involvement of the Catholic Church and political
and governing administration.

The Contraloria General de la Repdblica i s the primary independent government body
that exercises it role under a published set of regulations, inaccordance with International
Standards on Auditing. However, the effectiveness of the Contraloria i s questioned since
a majority o f its work i s carried out at the decentralized level, and often,
recommendations to improve local government systems of control are not implemented.
Without adequate human resources, it i s difficult for the Contraloria to follow-up on
many of the systemic issues that may be identifiedin audit reports.

Additionally, the Contraloria i s often requested by members of Congress to carryout
special audits of specific government programs, which hinders its ability to meet its
constitutional mandate, to audit all of the centralized and decentralized public sector
institutions.

The planned CFAA will examine more closely the issues o f revenue management, the
structure of internal controls and audits, the quality and periodicity of government
reporting, and the system for tracking poverty reduction expenditures (including HIPC
funds). The CFAA will be complemented by the European Commission's Compliance
Test, which will examine the quality of expenditures within several sectors (and test the
control systems within these sectors). The combination of both analytical works will
provide a full and robust picture of the quality of Bolivia's PFM and will result in a
single set of recommendations to further strengthen the country's public overall financial
management.




                                              88

 a
            " I
z
z
4




      (0
      c

90

                                        ANNEX XI1
           BOLIVIA     STATEMENT OF IFC'SHELD DISBURSED
                                                  AND              PORTFOLIO



                                     Bolivia
                                Statement of FC's
                           HeldandDisbursed Portfolio
                                 As of I13112003
                             (InUS Dollars Millions)


                                        Held                 Disbursed


FY Approval Company           Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
01maa19519a BISA                   0  0.46    0      0    0   0.46    0       0
        2003 Banco Sol             6     0    0      0     0     0    0       0
0/89/94/96/00 COMSUR               5     0    0      0     5     0    0       0
0199103       Caja Los Andes       8     0    0      0     0     0    0       0
1991101       Central Aguirre  2.16      0    0      0  1.03     0    0       0
        1999 Electropaz        22.39     0    0      0 22.39     0    0       0
        2003 FIE                2.5      0    0      0     0     0    0       0
        1993 GENEX             0.34      0    0      0 0.34      0    0       0
        1999 Illimani          5.38       1   o      o  5.38     1     0      0
        1996 Mercantil-BOL     4.29      0    0      0 4.29      0    0       0
            0 Minera               0      3   0      0     0     3     0      0
        2003 TDE S.A.             30     0    0      0 3 0       0     0      0
            0 TRECO                0  2.94    0      0     0  2.94     0      0
0101          Telecel Bolivia  7.78      0    5  7.14 7.78       0     5  7.14

        Total Portfolio:       93.84    7.4   5  7.14 76.21    7.4     5  7.14



         Approvals PendingCommitment
                              Loan Equity Quasi Partic
        2003 Caja LosAndes         0    1.8   0      0
        2001 PQB                10.5     0    0      0
        2003 ProdemFFP             3      0   0      0

  Total PendingCommitment:      13.5    1.8   0      0




                                             91

92

                                         ANNEX XIII: BOLIVIA AT A GLANCE



POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                     America      middle-
                                                             Bolivia  & Carib.     income       Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                                    8 7        527      2,411                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                              900      3,280        1,390
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                                                                           T
                                                                 7 8     1,727       3,352
                                                                                                                                               I
Average annual growth, 1996-02

Population(%)                                                    2 3         1 5
Laborforce(%)                                                    2 7         2 2                                                         Gross
                                                                                                                                       mmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                           capita                                nrollment




Infantmortality (per 7,000livebirths)                            58          27         30
Child malnutntion(% of childrenunder5)                             8            9        11               Access to improvedwater source
Accessto an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                83          86         81
lllrteracy (% ofpopulatmaqe 15+)                                 13          71          13
Gross pnmawenrollment (% of school-aqepopulation)               116         130        111             ~        Bolivia
    Male                                                        117         131         111                     Lower-middle-incomegroup




                                                    1982       1992       2001        2002     -
                                                                                                 Economic ratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                     3 0        5 6         8 0        7 7
Grossdomestic inves1menUGDP                          156       167         13 0
Exportsof qoodsand setvicedGDP                       29 1      200         183                                          Trade

GrossdomesticsavingsJGDP                             153         7 7         6 8
GrossnationalsavinqdGDP                               9 3        8 6         9 1                                          T
Currentaccount balanceIGDP                           -58        -9 5        -3 7                Domestic
InterestpaymentsJGDP                                  6 4        1 9         2 1                                                    Investment
                                                                                                savings
Total debffGDP                                     1116        750         587         59 1
Total debt servicelexpotts                           591       346         308         31 0
Present value of debtfGDP                                                  25 0
Present value of debtiexports                                            1129
                                                                                                                     Indebtedness
                                       1982-92 1992-02        2001        2002     2002-06
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                         1 5       3 5        1 2         2 5        3 7             ---.Bolivia
GDP percapita                              -0 6       1 1       -10          0 4        1 7                       Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof qoods and services                5 3       3 8        4 9




Generalgovemmentconsumption                          11.8      12.9         14.8
Imports of goods and sewices                         29.4      29.1        24.5


                                                                                                                                               I
                                                 1982-92    1992-02       2001        2002      Growthof exports and imports ("A)
                                                                                               11:
(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                                      2.8         1.1
industry                                                         3.6         0.5                20

   Manufacturing                                                 3.6         1.1                10
Setvices                                                         4.2         1.6

Privateconsumption                                    2.4        3.6         1 .o              1-20                                           2
General govemmenlconsumption                         -2.5        3.4         3.2
Grossdomesticinvestment                               7.1        5.3      -23.9
Importsof goods and services                          9.4        4.5        -7.4


Note: 2002 data are preliminaryestimates,
This table was producedfrom the Development Economicscentraldatabase.
* The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country(in bold)compared with its income-groupaverage. if data are missing,the diamondwill
    be incomplete.




                                                                      93

                                                                                                                             Bolivia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                1982     1992       2001   2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                          10.5         0.9    0.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                            159.4    13.2         0.7    2.0

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentarants)
Currentrevenue                                           23.8        25.2  26.1              97      98     99        w              "I
                                                                                                                            01
Current budget balance                                    5.6         0.8   -0.4              -GDPdeflator           +cpI
                                                                                    ~
Overallsurplus/deficit                                    4.4        -6.7   -7.5


TRADE                                                                                                                                 I
                                                1982     1992       2001   2002     [r,rt
(US$millions)                                                                               and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exporis(fob)                                        638       1,285  1,192
  Hydrocarbons-pas                                        134        302
 Soya                                                      57        275
 Manufactures                                             118         178
Total imports(cif)                                      1,090       1,724  1,743
 Food                                                     196        435
 Fuel and energy                                          456        891
 Capitalgoods                                             439        398    491

Exporipriceindex (1995=100)                               102         85     87
Import priceindex (1995=100)                               92         99     100    I          L?dExports         Impofis             I
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 111         86     87

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                1982     1992       2001   2002     1
(US$ millions)                                                                       Currentaccount balanceto GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services                     904      813       1,521  1,433
Imports of goods and services                    681    1,277       1,996  2,012
Resourcebalance                                  223     -464        -476  -579

Net income                                       -465    -190        -210  -202
Net currenttransfers                              45      248         393   421

Currentaccount balance                           -174    -534        -293

Financingitems (net)                              100     554        264
Changesin net reserves                            73      -20          29    163

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)             216      410       1,116    858
Conversionrate (DEC, /oca//US$)               1.20E-4     3.9         6.6    7.2


EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                1982     1992        2001  2002
(US$ millions)                                                                         :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed             3,329   4,235       4,676  4,535
  IBRD                                           212      146           0      0
  IDA                                             90      464       1,146  1,321                           G: 38


Total debt service                               544      288         544    475
  IBRD                                            24       35           0      0
  IDA                                               1       5           2     15

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                  43      264         352
  Officialcreditors                               139     272         229    229
  Privatecreditors                                46       -8         -24    -75
  Foreigndirect investment                        61       93         662
  Portfolioequity                                  0        0           0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                      0      118         106     77       \-IBRD                            E . Bilateral
  Disbursements                                   30       55         102    104      B IDA
                                                                                        -         D Other multilateral
                                                                                                   -                     F Private
                                                                                                                           -
  Principalrepayments                              9       23           1      7      C IMF
                                                                                        .                                G -Short-term
  Netflows                                        21       32         101     96
  interestpayments                                 16      17           1      7
  Net transfers                                    5       15         100     89


Note:This table was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicscentraldatabase.                                                       8/20/03




                                                                 94

                                                 ANNEX XIV'
                               BOLIVIACAS     - DEBT    SUSTAINABILITY        ANALYSIS




A. TheBaseline Scenario

1.       The baseline scenario assumes a conservative macro framework. Rates of output growth
are lower than those employed in the scenario the Government and the IMF have agreed upon
under the current IMF's Standby Agreement. In particular, it is assumed that without a gas
export project, the real GDP growth converges to 3.6 percent (this figure being the average
growth rate for 1990-2002, this period includes economic boom of mid 1990's and the ongoing
economic crisis that started in 1999).2 This scenario takes into account the programmed World
Bank support to Bolivia presented in this document. It is assumed that both the World Bank's
and the other creditors' graduation of concessional credits starts progressively in 2004. Exports
and FDIinflows should be less buoyant that inprevious scenarios, it i s assumed that a gas export
project would start in 2008. External capital flows are assumed to decrease in 2003 and 2004
recovering modestly afterwards; FDIincreases from 2008 due to the gas export project. On the
fiscal front, a progressive fiscal adjustment i s assumed to take place over the 2004-08 period.
The baseline scenario rules out the possibility of a financial crisis or generalized social conflicts.
Table 1summarizes the assumptions in the macroeconomic framework.
                             Table 1: Key Macro-IndicatorsBaselineScenario
                                     -Actual                          Projections                   Av. 1010-
                  Indicator           2002       2003    uH)4    2005    2006    2007  2008   2009     2015

                                               (Annualpercentage change )
     Real GDP at market prices            2.8        2.6    3.2     3.6     3.6    3.6   3.6     3.1       4.4
     CPI inflation (e.0.p)                2.4        3.0    3.3     3.5     3.5    3.5   3.5     3.5       3.5
     Nominaldevaluation (e.0.p.)          9.5        4.8    4.1     2.8     1.8     1.8   1.8    1.8       1.8
     Exportsvolume                        9.1      12.5     3.9     4.1     4.2    4.4   4.2     4.5       6.1
     Imports volume                       9.1       -6.5    7.1      2.4    3.2     3.0  5.4     7.8       4.3

                                                  (Inpercent of GDP)
     Overall public balance              -8.9       -8.0   -6.6     -4.5   -3.4    -2.9  -2.5   -2.9      -2.1
    Exports of goods and services        19.1      22.9    23.8    24.5    24.9   25.3  25.1    26.2      29.2
     Imports of goods and services      26.3       25.6    21.1    28.2    28.4   28.6  29.5    31.0      33.1
     Current account                     -4.6       -0.7   -0.6     -1.2   -1.6    -1.6  -2.4   -3.6      -4.6
     ForeignDirect Investment             8.6        2.1     2.9     3.0    2.1     2.6   2.5    3.9       4.5




1 Annex C of the Bolivia CAS
2. In the very short run, despite the decline in domestic demand (mainly due to the difficult social and political
   situation), exports are leading economic growth: the hydrocarbon sector sustained its performance, agriculture
   production (mainly due to soybeans) increased and textiles production recovered. In the medium-term, real
   output will be positively affected by the recovery of Brazil's gas demand (as currently projected). This would
   increase prospects for increasing gas exports to Brazil. Currently, gas exports stand at only about 13.5 MMm3
   per day, while the take or pay clause of the Gas Supply Agreement has already reached 18 MMm3 per day.



                                                         95

2.              Inthe baseline scenario total debt stock indicators do not show an explosive pattern (see
Figure 1). The stock of debt to GDP deteriorates until 2005, reaching a level of 80.6 percent,
then recovers and reaches 65.8 percent by 2015. The net present value (NPV) of debt to GDP
deteriorates until 2005, reaching a level of 62 percent and remains constant until 2015.
Convergence between the NPV debt and the nominal terms debt curves reveal the impact of the
graduation and the increase in domestic debt. External debt flow indicators do not show an
explosive pattern, either.

3.              Domestic debt flow indicators suggest there will be liquidity problems in the medium-
term related to servicing domestic debt. Despite the primary balance adjustment, the shock debt
indicators deteriorate dramatically from 2009 due to the increase o f domestic debt service. This
behavior reflects the recent increases in domestic debt, the shortage of external financing and the
uneven composition of the domestic debt (concentrated in very short term and long term
instruments)-a                                    significant amount of domestic have to be amortized in the very short term; by
2009 long term debt instruments (AFP bonds) start to be amortized, thus increasing debt service
payments between 2009 to 2015. The pattern of domestic debt indicates that to achieve domestic
debt sustainability the Government needs to find additional grants and concessional credits to
substitute domestic financing (Scenario 5). To reduce domestic debt service payments in 2009-
15, the Government should find alternative sources for financing the cost of the pension reform
and find ways to diversify its total public debt.

Figure 1: Bolivia-Baseline                                            Scenario: Key Indicators of FiscalSustainability
                 Tola1DeMJndicators                                             Extend DeMIndicators                       Domestic Debt Micators
                                                                          70

                                                                                                        9o    35/



                                                                          a



                                                                          XI




         ..                                                            ga
                                                                       b
                                                                        sr
                                                          ..'..           yi
   ;-"
    ,,     !'..,                                         ,.        ;

                '.
                 .. ,,....,....,....;'(....                  .. .
                  '.'                   ..,..............:    ..,.I

                                                ,.I

                                                                           0




                                                                          in



                                                                           0



                              Y e a
   ~ N o m i M i l s t ~ ~ k o f d e b i l o G D P ( L H S i                                                      -Nomnd        stockof domesticdeM to ODP (LHS)
   -NPVof
   .........Deb,service
                     deM 10 GDP (LHSi                                                                             -NPVoidomesricdeb~         ioGDP(LHS)
                               Lo total cevaueo IRHS)                                                             . .....
                                                                                                                        .Domesticdebt serviceIOrexenucs (WS)
Note: The public sector corresponds to the consolidatedcombinedpublic sector operations.




                                                                                            96

B.Alternative Economic Pe$ormance and Fiscal Adjustment (Scenarios2, 3 and 4)

4.       Scenario 2 differs from the baseline only in the better fiscal adjustment of the
Government, which aggressively reacts to lower economic performance by reducing its
expenditures and by increasing tax revenues3.Given the current social and political situation, the
fiscal adjustment assumed by this alternative scenario might be very difficult to implement. To
assess how fiscal sustainability i s affected b y lower economic growth rates and less optimistic
export prospects, Scenario 3 assumes more pessimistic GDP growth since there i s no
implementation of any project similar to the liquid natural gas (LNG) project. The FDIprospects
are lower, export growth i s significantly reduced. Other external financing assumptions are the
baseline's. Fiscal adjustment assumptions for Scenario 3 are those from the baseline. Scenario 4
differs from the Scenario 3 inthe better fiscal adjustment of the Government, which aggressively
reacts to lower economic performance.
5.       The outcome of alternative scenarios i s presented in Figure 2 and Tables 2 to 5. Results
from Scenario 2 show that if an aggressive fiscal adjustment takes place, debt sustainability i s
achieved; given the current social and political situation this fiscal adjustment might be difficult
to implement. As compared to the baseline, Scenario 3 shows that all debt indicators deteriorate,
attesting that if low economic performance i s assumed, debt sustainability i s significantly
affected. However, fiscal sustainability in the low economic performance scenario can improve
significantly if the Government reacts to lower growth rates by reducing current expenditures
and/or increasing fiscal revenues (Scenario 4).

       Figure 2: Alternative Economic Performance and Degree of FiscalAdjustment
                                 Key Indicators of Debt Sustainability

  *57      NominalDetl to GDP                 NPV of DeMto GDP               Debservice toPublic Revenues


                                                                                                           I




    1




3.  Starting from the baseline fiscal adjustment assumption, Scenario 2 assumes that current expenditures are
    reduced by 0.25 percent o f GDP per year from 2004 to 2015 and that tax revenues increase by 0.25 percent of
    GDP per year from 2005 to 2015.


                                                         97

C. Scenario with No Domestic Financing and only External Financing (Scenario 5)

6.      An alternative scenario, based on the base case, is considered to illustrate the relative
contribution of the build-up of internal debt to Bolivia's debt problem. To do so, the base case i s
compared with a hypothetical case which includes no internal financing with the entire debt
financed b y an unidentified external creditor under conditions that would prevail under a blend
of concessionary and nonconcessionary finan~ing.~Figure 3 compares the results of this
scenario with those of the baseline. Inthis scenario, stock and flow indicators are better than in
the base case and the nominal value and NPV of debt to GDP are reduced significantly in the
medium term. The debt service to public revenues also decreases. This reflects the impact of
more expensive domestic debt and highlights the danger of the government turning to more
accessible but more expensive domestic debt to finance the fiscal deficit.

                                           Figure 3: No DomesticFinancingScenario
                                             Key Indicatorsof Debt Sustainability
          h o d Deb to GDP                            ................................................. ..
                                                         NPVof DeMto GDP                                                      De& service to public Revenues
                                                                                                           ,...........


                                                                                                                          I                                   I




           No domestic AnmcingI C ~ ~ Z Y K




4. The assumedconditions in scenario 5 are: 10years of maturity, 2 years of grace and an interest rate of 4 percent.


                                                                                    98

D.Scenariosof Financial Crisis and Insufficient Fiscal Adjustment (Scenarios 6 and 7)


7.       Two critical scenarios were simulated to evaluate the effects of two risks in the Bolivian
economy: (i)    the possible inability to attain a progressive fiscal adjustment (Scenario 6); and (ii)
the effects of a financial crisis triggered say by further political instability and/or increased social
unrest (Scenario 7).5 Figure 4 compares the results of these two scenarios with those of the
baseline. Results of Scenario 6 do not show fiscal sustainability: the domestic debt service
becomes such a heavy burden for fiscal accounts that by 2008 the ratio of nominal stock of debt
to GDP enters in an unstable exploding path. Due to liquidity and solvency difficulties in the
medium-term, this scenario i s clearly fiscal unsustainable. Results of Scenario 7 lie between the
results of Scenarios 6 and 3; they do not show fiscal sustainability either. Similarly, debt service
starts to increase rapidly from 2009 onwards. As a result, the ratio of the stock debt to GDP
remains constant at about 70 percent of GDP (reflecting the relative increase of debt in
commercial terms-domestic debt, relative to debt on concessional terms).


                Figure4: Critical Scenarios of Financial Crisis and FiscalSlippage
                                   Key Indicatorsof Debt Sustainability
                                                                             7
  in       NominalDebtto GDP                     NPV al Demto GDP                  Debt sewice to Public Revenuer

     I
                                                                           lo

  im -


                                                                 ...'




   "1




5. Starting from the assumptions of Scenario 3 (without gas), Scenario 6 assumes a permanent increase in current
   expenditures of 1 percent GDP from 2004 onwards; the long term growth rate of real output i s reduced by 0.5
   percentage points. External capital flows, especially of FDI and export performance are reduced as well. The
   baseline-scenario-levels of external financing are maintained, this implies that public debt growth is explained
    essentially by an increase in domestic debt. Scenario 7 starts from the assumptions of Scenario 3 as well and
    assumes that a financial crisis takes place during 2004. The total fiscal cost of the financial crisis is assumed to
    amount 5 percent of GDP and i s fully supported by the Government of Bolivia (GOB) during 2004 and i s
    financed by domestic debt.


                                                             99


30909




1  F
c z z


3 9 T 1
m - n
P o N




        "

                   ? ? C ? ? 9
                  W R R "



- - =




         z??:      O N ? ?
         e o - -   z x 2 -



I-?-
u w q




                     ="e.?
                     - * a -
                     N N

N m '

                  W N
                  id3;ZZ
                  N N  '




z : cW! c"! s g
N




                                   " 3 ' 9 9
                                   8 4 " Y



                          9 - "
                          n c c




                                   ? ? " O
                                   4 % " "




                    N

-


                                z??:
                                e m - -




                                ? ? ? ?
                                g s z 3



- ! - ? s o =
;;'R"??"                                 "N




                                          O O N




                       " r -
               " C e  2 w o
             "     '




                                          ? Y   a
                                                -
                                 " -N     r - -

108

                                               ANNEX XV
           IbfFPRESSRELEASESECONDREVIEWOFBOLIVIAS'SSTAND-BY ARRANGEMENT




Press Release No. 03/162                                           International Monetary Fund
FOR IMMEDIATERELEASE                                               Washington, D.C. 20431USA
October 6,2003


              IMFCompletesSecondReviewofBolivia's Stand-By Arrangement,
                             Approves US$15 Million Disbursement

The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund(IMF) today completed the second
review of Bolivia's performance under a one-year, SDR 85.75 million (about US$123 million)
Stand-By Arrangement that was approved on April 2,2003 (see Press Release No. 03/46). This
decision enables the release of SDR 10.7 million (about US$15 million) to Bolivia, which brings
total disbursements under the program to SDR 64.2 million (about US$92 million).

The ExecutiveBoard also approved Bolivia's request for the modification o f performance
criteria for end-September with respect to the fiscal deficit, net domestic financing of the public
sector, central bank net credit to the non-financial public sector, and net domestic assets of the
central bank, as well as the modification of performance criteria for end-December inrelation to
the fiscal deficit and net domestic financing o f the public sector. The Executive Board also
approved Bolivia's request for waivers of applicability until October 30,2003 of the
performance criteria for end-September, for which data was not available.

Followingthe Executive Board discussion on Bolivia, Anne Krueger, First Deputy Managing
Director and Acting Chair, said:

"Bolivia's economic program i s broadly on track. Despite a difficult political and social
environment, inflation remains low and indications are that economic growth i s picking up and
that financial market conditions have stabilized. Although the fiscal outturn has fallen short of
the program's objectives, the authorities have taken corrective measures. Moreover, encouraging
progress has been made with the government's reform agenda.

"The authorities' corrective steps to contain the fiscal deficit in 2003 and to facilitate continued
fiscal consolidation in 2004 and beyond will require firm and consistent implementation to
achieve higher economic growth and lasting poverty reduction. Recent measures that will be of
crucial importance in this context include reductions inlow-priority spending, and the
implementation of legislation to introduce a new tax code, broadenthe tax base, and apply a tax
regularization scheme.

"The recent approval of the out-of-court workout law and the issuingo f the supporting
regulations represent important steps that will help to put inplace an appropriate framework for


                                                  109

corporate and financial restructuring. The law will now be applied to a pilot sample of firms. The
authorities also intend to develop an action plan to improve the resiliency of the banking system
and address any potential weaknesses, andto implement recommendations made by the recent
Financial Sector Assessment Program study.

"Building on recent policy initiatives and progress toward stabilizing the economy, the
authorities are working to put inplace a strong policy framework for the next three years that
will incorporate comprehensive reforms aimed at strengthening the basis for sustained growth
and poverty reduction. The Fundi s working closely with the authorities, who plan to develop
and implement the program on the basis of a broad dialogue with domestic stakeholders and
discussion with the donor community. On this basis, the authorities have reiterated their intention
to seek support under the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility before the endof the
year," Ms. Krueger stated.




                                                110

