Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7214-BO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Bank and Corporate Restructuring Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated May 21, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7214-BO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 21, 2004 between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
January 8, 2004 (the Development Policy Letter), describing: (i) its macroeconomic 
framework; and (ii) the objectives and policies of its banking and corporate sectors 
reform program which consists of actions designed to improve the Borrower’s banking 
and corporate sectors, strengthen banking and corporate regulation, supervision and 
inspection, and modernize the legal framework for the Borrower’s banking and corporate 
sectors (hereinafter called the Program); declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program; and requesting assistance from the Association in support of 
the Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financial assistance in support of the 
Program and, by a Development Credit Agreement of the same date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association is 
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to ten 
million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR10,500,000) (the Credit); 
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit be disbursed before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan 
provided for in this Agreement (the Loan) are made; and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement as hereinafter provided;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the First Phase of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
Section 1.02 (a) through (j) of the Development Credit Agreement, in the General 
Conditions, and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and are hereby incorporated to this Agreement, provided that the exceptions 
listed under Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall apply. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen 
million Dollars ($15,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $14,850,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, open and thereafter maintain in its Central Bank a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so 
excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account unless, the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement 
have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled and, 
Page  5
-
4
-
within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part 
thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) 
of the General Conditions to, but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
Page  6
-
5
-
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is ac
cepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion,” as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
 
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after 
disbursement of the Second Tranche of the Loan proceeds, disburse to FASF funds in 
local currency equivalent to the respective amount of such disbursement (except that 
funds in local currency equivalent to the amount disbursed by the Bank to itself pursuant 
to Section 2.04 of this Agreement need not be so disbursed by the Borrower to FASF). 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall cause FASF: 
 
(a) 
only to finance transfers in accordance with the provisions of FASF 
Operating Principles and Procedures; 
 
(b) 
to consult with the Bank prior to financing any transaction that would 
require any exception to FASF Operating Principles and Procedures (in accordance with 
the provisions thereof)
 in order to obtain the Bank’s opinion on whether the transaction 
would undermine the achievement of the objectives of the Program; and 
 
(c) 
promptly after it makes any loan, to forward to the Bank all such 
information about the loan and the transaction financed by it as the Bank may reasonably 
require. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Events of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework has become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program; and (b) an action 
has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or policy under the 
Program (including any action or policy listed in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit 
Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, after consultation with 
the Borrower, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date. Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified an additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have 
been fulfilled; and 
 
(b) 
that FASF has been established. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 5.02. The date August 19, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n 
 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
Cable address:  
 
FINANZA 
 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
By  /s/ Javier Cuevas 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ John Newman 
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2009 
 
through February 15, 2026 
2.78% 
 
On August 15, 2026 
2.70% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  11
-
10
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
 
