Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3854-BO 
 
Development Credit Agreement
 
(Programmatic Bank and Corporate Restructuring Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 21, 2004 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3854-BO 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 21, 2004 between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
January 8, 2004 (the Development Policy Letter), describing: (i) its macroeconomic 
framework; and (ii) the objectives and policies of its banking and corporate sectors 
reform program which consists of actions designed to improve the Borrower’s banking 
and corporate sectors, strengthen banking and corporate regulation, supervision and 
inspection, and modernize the legal framework for the Borrower’s banking and corporate 
sectors (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional financial assistance in 
support of the Program and, by a Loan Agreement of the same date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to US$15,000,000 Dollars (the 
Loan); 
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed before 
disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan are made; and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
in two tranches, as provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) as hereinafter 
provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in 
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and 
the Association of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement and Section 2.02 (b) of the Loan Agreement; 
 
(b) “FASF” 
means 
Fondo de Apoyo del Sistema Financiero
,
a
trust fund to 
be established by the Borrower through a 
Decreto Supremo
;
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“FASF” Operating Principles and Procedures” means the operating 
principles and procedures of FASF as approved by the Association; 
 
(d) 
“First Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
SDR7,000,000 to be released by the Association on or after the Effective Date; 
 
(e) “SBEF” 
means 
Superintendencia de Bancos y Entidades Financieras
,
the Borrower’s Superintendency of Banks; 
 
(f) “SE” 
means 
Superintendencia de Empresas
,
the Borrower’s 
Superintendency of Enterprises; 
 
(g) 
“Second Tranche” means a combination of a portion of the Loan not 
exceeding $15,000,000 and a portion of the Credit not exceeding SDR3,500,000 to be 
released by the Bank or the Association to the Borrower, as the case may be, upon 
fulfillment of the conditions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of the Loan 
Agreement; 
 
(h) “SRT” 
means 
Comité del Programa Fortalecimiento de Empresas y del 
Sistema Financiero
,
a
systemic restructuring team established pursuant to a ministerial 
resolution issued by the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance to provide vision, coordination 
and leadership to the systemic banking restructuring process; 
 
(i) 
“SRT Principles” means a set of principles issued by SRT in December 
2003, and agreed with the Association, to be followed in bank restructuring processes; 
and  
 
(j) 
“40+8 Recommendations” means the 40 recommendations on money 
laundering and 8 recommendations on terrorism issued by the financial action task force 
on money laundering, an inter-governmental body which sets standards and develops 
policies to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR10,500,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its Central 
Bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Deposit Account in respect of the 
Second Tranche unless, the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice to the 
Borrower that the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been 
fulfilled and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, 
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, commencing February 15, 2014, and ending August 15, 
2023. Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2023 shall 
be five percent (5%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Page  7
-
6
-
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after 
disbursement of the First Tranche of the Credit proceeds, disburse to FASF funds in local 
currency equivalent to the respective amount of such disbursement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, immediately and automatically after disbursement of 
the Second Tranche of the Credit proceeds, disburse to FASF funds in local currency 
equivalent to the respective amount of such disbursement. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall cause FASF: 
 
(a) 
only to finance transfers in accordance with the provisions of FASF 
Operating Principles and Procedures; 
 
(b) 
to consult with the Association prior to financing any transaction that 
would require any exception to FASF Operating Principles and Procedures (in 
accordance with the provisions thereof) in order to obtain the Association's opinion on 
whether the transaction would undermine the achievement of the objectives of the 
Program; and 
 
(c) 
promptly after it makes any loan, to forward to the Association all such 
information about the loan and the transaction financed by it as the Association may 
reasonably require. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Events of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework has become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program; and (b) an action 
has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or policy under the 
Program (including any action or policy listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) in a 
Page  9
-
8
-
manner that would, in the opinion of the Association, after consultation with the 
Borrower, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date. Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified an additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, 
other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and 
 
(b) 
that FASF has been established. 
 
Section 5.02. The date August 19, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19 
 
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n 
 
La Paz, Bolivia 
 
Cable address:  
 
FINANZA 
 
La Paz, Bolivia 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
 
By  /s/ Javier Cuevas 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/ John Newman 
Authorized Representative 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the Bank 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  13
-
12
-
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 - 
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit and/or the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of the Loan and Credit Agreements 
 
1. 
SBEF’s database on corporate debtors has been properly updated with quarterly 
inputs from sectoral institutions. 
 
2. 
SBEF has issued a resolution establishing the eligibility criteria for financial 
institutions to acquire deposits and assets of financial institutions undergoing purchase 
and assumption processes. 
 
3. 
SBEF has taken irrevocable actions to ensure full capitalization or resolution of a 
selected undercapitalized bank of the Borrower's banking sector, as agreed with the 
Association and the Bank, following SRT Principles. 
 
4. 
FASF is fully operational, its operating principles and procedures have been 
made effective, and a coordination unit for its operation has been created and is 
adequately staffed. 
 
5. 
FASF has issued adequate subordinated debt instruments (or other type of 
instruments agreed to between the Borrower and the Association and the Bank) to 
selected banks carrying out eligible transactions in accordance with FASF Operating 
Principles and Procedures. 
 
6. 
SE is headed by a duly appointed superintendent and has achieved sufficient 
operational capacity to carry out its mandate. 
 
7. 
(a) An adequate number of corporations, satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank, have been identified to potentially initiate a restructuring process; and (b) 
workshops with interested corporations and their creditors to promote corporate 
restructuring have been carried out. 
 
8. 
The Borrower has issued a 
Decreto Supremo
 mandating the creation of corporate 
restructuring funds to provide fresh money to eligible corporations undergoing 
restructuring processes. 
 
9. 
A draft law for the adoption of the 40+8 Recommendations has been presented to 
the Borrower’s Congress.
 
