Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.27488:   
Project Name 
Bolivia First Programmatic Bank and Corporate Sector Restructuring Program 
(BCRP) Adjustment Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General finance sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P082781 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
January 7, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 18, 2003  
Date of Board Approval 
February 5, 2004  
 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Bolivia remains one of the poorest and least developed countries in Latin America.  GDP per 
capita stands below US$1000, with almost two thirds of the population below the poverty line.  
Social indicators experienced improvements during the first half of the last decade, but real per 
capita income and employment deteriorated in recent years. Currently, Bolivia is experiencing a 
severe economic recession originating from a combination of external and internal shocks.  Real 
GDP growth has averaged 1½ percent after 1998, a substantial reduction from the 4 percent 
average in the preceding years of the 1990s.  This has led to vulnerabilities in the financial and 
corporate sectors. 
Current vulnerabilities in the banking and corporate sectors demand an integrated strategy for 
systemic restructuring—one that addresses these weaknesses comprehensively and 
simultaneously.  The previous approach to corporate and banking restructuring, which focused 
on Government sponsored debtor-relief schemes supported by prudential norm relaxation, has 
proven insufficient and has created perverse incentives.  Government-sponsored debt 
rescheduling programs (such as FERE and PROFOP) have not induced corporations to undertake 
operational restructuring. Instead, they have fed expectations of corporate bailouts, weakening 
debtor willingness to pay and raising the risk of corporate asset stripping.   
2. Objectives 
 
The purpose of the proposed Programmatic Bank and Corporate Sector Restructuring Program 
Adjustment Loan is to support the Government’s systemic bank and corporate restructuring 
program (BCRP), aimed at boosting economic growth. The Government is committed to 
implementing a comprehensive and cohesive bank and corporate restructuring program, essential 
to re-align incentives and set into motion a process where: (i) viable banks voluntarily participate 
in the restructuring of troubled but viable corporations that make the needed efforts to restore 
their financial health, (ii) troubled but viable banks restructure and regain medium-term 
profitability; and (iii) unviable banks and corporations exit the system in an orderly manner.   
Page  2
 
 
The Government’s BCRP involves four main components: (i) enhancing organizational arrangements to manage 
systemic bank corporate restructuring, (ii) achieving legal clarity and appropriate distribution of financial sector 
regulatory powers, (iii) strengthening prudential regulation and the bank resolution framework, and (iv) improving 
the institutional framework for corporate restructuring, including through broadening the diagnosis of the corporate 
sector and its interrelations with banks. 
 
 
3. Description 
 
The Bank’s strategy in the financial and corporate sector calls for operations in a programmatic context, each 
focusing on distinct policy measures and actions that, taken as a whole, would contribute to the strengthening of the 
financial sector and supporting the Government’s BCRP.  While the first loan would have conditionality largely 
based on actions in the banking sector, the second loan would follow a similar design, but with flexibility to include 
conditionality on the corporate sector if sufficient progress is achieved and/or further advances on the banking sector 
take place.   
 
Due to its complexity, the Government’s program is to be supported by a concerted effort of 
various multilateral institutions (the Bank, IADB, CAF, and IMF) through a combination of 
financing, TA, and grants.   
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
N/A 
 
5. Financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 
0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
15.0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
15.0 
 
Total 30.0 
 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Yira J. Mascaró 
Title: Financial Economist 
Tel:  (202) 458-7800 
Fax: (202) 522-2106 
Email: Ymascaro@worldbank.org
 
