Report No. PID11516
Project Name    Uruguay-Public Services and Social Sector
Structural Adjustment and Special Structural
Adjustment Loans
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Transportation, Health and Social Services,
Energy and Mining, Water & Sanitation,Info. &
Communication
Project ID                               P078726
Supplemental Project ID          P081495
Borrower                                 Republic of Uruguay
Implementing Agency              Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto (OPP)
Presidencia de la Republica
Edificio "Libertad"
L.A. de Herrera 3350
Montevideo, R.O. del Uruguay
Pone: (598-2) 487-2110
Environmental Category           U
Date PID Revised                         November 3, 2002
Project Appraisal Date           November 7, 2002
Project Board Date               December 17, 2002
Background
Since the beginning of the year, Uruguay has been confronted by a deepening
economic crisis that has been mainly due to the contagion effect of
Argentina. The impact of the crisis magnifies underlying weaknesses in the
Uruguay economic system, including relative fiscal laxity and deteriorating
competitiveness linked to the provision of public services and
infrastructure. Estimates of the real output decline are in the 9 to 11
percent range for 2002. The most notable of the social impacts of the crisis
has been an increase in unemployment from 11.4 % in 1999 to 17.2% in August
of 2002.
The Government of Uruguay (GoU) has responded to recent developments with
strong actions centered on dealing with the liquidity pressures affecting the
banking system and ensuring the sustainability of public finances over the
medium run. The Government has also taken steps to mitigate potential
negative social impacts of the crisis through budget protection for key
safety net programs and efforts to increase the impact of fiscal
expenditures. Based on the Government's reform program, the international
financial institutions (IFIs) are providing an unprecedented financial
package tied to deep structural reforms. The package aims to support the
Uruguayan economy, to insulate it from regional contagion, and to provide the



basis for economic recovery. The IFI's financial package and GoU adjustment
program have helped to: i) temporarily stabilize the exchange rate - albeit
at a highly depreciated level; ii) moderately increase in reserves; and iii)
stem the run on deposits in the banking sector.
The Government continues to face strong challenges to a return to
macroeconomic stability. Addressing these challenges is of key importance as
the GoU's medium term agenda continues to be focused on macroeconomic
stability as a necessary pre-condition for future growth along with improving
competitiveness by attacking excess local costs at the source. Prospects for
restoring growth hinges on several factors:
External competitiveness of tradable and selective service sectors has been
boosted through market-driven exchange rate adjustments. Sectors like
agriculture, forestry, meat production, agri-businesses and tourism and
several industrial subsectors will help to gradually offset the
contractionary devaluation.
The opening of telecommunications, water and sanitation, transport, and
energy, areas currently dominated by the State, to the private sector would
facilitate private sector-led investment. Restructuring the state to
increase productivity of the private sector could also help to boost economic
growth.
Improved efficiency in the delivery and price of infrastructure services is
crucial to consolidate the competitiveness of Uruguay's products and
services.
Based on expected progress in these reforms, and an economic recovery in
neighboring countries, an economic recovery in Uruguay could commence toward
the end of this year.
Project Description
The Government of Uruguay has requested an economic and social reform
operation from the Bank to support reforms to boost economic growth, improve
the competitiveness of the Uruguayan economy, and improve the general welfare
of the population through better provision of public and social services and
infrastructure. Though coverage and quality of public services and
infrastructure are high relative to the region, their operating costs are
also high and their delivery inefficient. This, together with a tightly
regulated economy, are creating a drag on the economy and an overall loss of
competitiveness. Progress on reforms has been made, most notably in ports
and in some key transport services (the airport in Punta del Este and highway
concessions). Electricity generation has been opened up for private
participation. Water and sanitation services in the Department of Maldonado
and natural gas distribution have been concessioned to private operators.
Yet considerable challenges remain in further liberalization of key services
and infrastructure sectors, strengthening of regulatory frameworks, and
increasing competitiveness of service provision. Addressing competitiveness
and efficiency issues will allow Uruguay to more swiftly return to a path of
sustained growth. In addition, efficiency in the health and education
sectors, although high by regional standards, also offers opportunities to
increase the impact of increasingly scarce fiscal resources. Efficient and
effective social services have increased importance in the current
environment of protracted recession and economic uncertainty. They are also
critical to mitigating possible negative impacts of structural reform.
In particular, the loans aim to:
Reduce prices, increase quality and coverage, and improve the efficiency of
investment, production and distribution of services, and infrastructure
- 2-



through: i) upgrading regulation by strengthening regulatory frameworks in
all sectors; ii) increasing competition by liberalization in the wholesale
power market and mobile phone services and sector restructuring of the
petroleum, water and sanitation and transport sectors; iii) improve the
efficiency of public expenditure by increasing transparency and
accountability and by reducing tax distortions; and iv) strengthening
institutions to carry out functions of regulation, market oversight, sector
planning and management.
Improve the efficiency of public expenditures in health and education while
maintaining or improving services in key priority areas through: i)
contracting out of ancillary services in public hospitals and restructuring
national health funding instruments; ii) reducing cross subsidies in the
public hospital network; iii) protecting priority educations programs; and,
iv) improving the management of the education sector.
Consultation with Stakeholders
The proposed reform program includes three key activities involving
stakeholders in monitoring reform progress, in soliciting stakeholder input
to inform design, and to assess potential impacts of the changes. First, the
program supports the establishment of a system of performance indicators for
all public services. Companies providing services will be obligated to
regularly publish performance information and targets. This information will
allow clients to monitor and compare performance and hold these companies
accountable. Second, the Government is keenly aware of potential impacts the
reform could have on the most vulnerable populations and is committed to not
loose ground in terms of service coverage and affordability for the poorest.
The Government plans to develop a new policy of services to the poor, and as
part of policy development carryout a study to measure current impacts of the
economic crisis on services and potential impacts of the reform. The study
methodology will include focus group discussions as well as household
surveys, and the study should provided the basis for a permanent framework by
which the GoU can monitor the impact of public service coverage, quality, and
prices on the poor. Lastly, the GoU plans to develop a model to assess the
overall impacts of the reform program, and identify possible winners and
losers, as a first step toward mitigating negative effects. The study is in
the process of being contracted.
Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
A very detailed analysis of the environmental regulation in the country
covering all infrastructure sectors, water resources and irrigation, was
recently completed. This analysis includes the state of the environment
today, a broad description of the treatment of environmental matters, and a
set of reform proposals supported by a comprehensive database of all
environmental norms and regulations, a comparative legal analysis with
Mercosur members, an identification of responsibilities and capacity in the
public agencies in charge of environmental management, and suggestions of
model environmental clauses to add in new concession contracts specifying
concessionaires responsibilities in accordance with the environmental
regulation and existing environmental liabilities. The next step in the rich
dialogue that the Bank and the country have in the environmental area
involves the preparation of a country environmental analysis focused on
strengthening management capacity in the infrastructure sectors.
The Environmental Assessment Category of the proposed project is U.
-3 -



Contact Information
Task Managers
Carlos Velez
202-473-9329
Anna Wellenstein
202-458-1279
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 4-



