RECIBIDO
BANCO MUNDIIAL
The World Bank                                        1818 H Street N.W.         202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT     ngton, D.C. 2043      Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                  .S                       Cable Address: INDEVAS
IUFFMLAL                j      u
DOCUMENTS1                1,;    2-- v
_oytL)Sper 21st, 2011
His Excellency Fernando Lorenzo
Ministro de Economia y Finanzas
Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas
Colonia No. 1089
Montevideo
Uruguay
Re: Non-Deliverable Settlement Currency Conversion Letter
for Outstanding Loans
Excellency,
We refer to the Loan Agreements between the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the "Bank") and Republica Oriental del Uruguay (the "Borrower") in respect of
the Loans listed in Annex I to this letter. Terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the
meanings assigned to them in the Loan Agreements (including in the Conversion Guidelines).
Please refer to the section of each Loan Agreement providing for Conversions pursuant to
which the Borrower has expressed its intention to execute Currency Conversions from Dollars
into Uruguayan Pesos (UYU) on non-deliverable terms of amounts withdrawn from the relevant
Loan Account (each an "NDS UYU Currency Conversion" and collectively the "NDS UYU
Currency Conversions") for the longest maturity available for the respective Loan.
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:
1.     Each NDS UYU Currency Conversion shall be executed in accordance with the
provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, except as may be otherwise provided herein. In the
event of any inconsistency between the Conversion Guidelines and the terms of this letter
(including the Annexes attached hereto) (the "Currency Conversion Letter"), those of this
Currency Conversion Letter shall prevail.
2.     Each NDS UYU Currency Conversion shall be executed pursuant to the submission of a
Request by the Borrower in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines and on the following
terms:
(a)    Currency Conversion: from Dollars (USD) into Uruguayan Pesos (UYU) on non-
deliverable terms as provided in Annex II.
(b)    Transaction Fees: as provided for in the General Conditions applicable to the
relevant Loan Agreement.


﻿(c)    Payment of Principal and Interest: all payments of principal and interest shall be
on non-deliverable terms and made in Dollars, on terms substantially similar to
those provided in Annex II.
(d)    Billing: A bill for the principal and interest payable in respect of an NDS UYU
Currency Conversion will be generated by the Bank two (2) Business Days after
the Valuation Date (as defined in Annex II). Furthermore, in accordance with the
section of the General Conditions applicable to each Loan Agreement providing
for the delivery of notices and requests, notices relating to the payment of interest
and principal in respect of an NDS UYU Currency Conversion may be given to
the Borrower through an electronic messaging system and will be deemed to be
effective on the date that electronic message is received by the Borrower.
3.     (a)   The provisions of this Currency Conversion Letter apply only to the NDS UYU
Currency Conversions executed pursuant to the terms herein. Any other Conversions pursuant to
the section of the Loan Agreement providing for Conversions shall be executed in accordance
with the provisions in such section and the terms of the General Conditions applicable to the
relevant Loan and the Conversion Guidelines will apply to such Conversions.
(b)    The Borrower may terminate the provisions of this Currency Conversion Letter
by at least 15 Business Days prior written notice to the Bank (Attention: Loan Clients Section,
Clients and Financial Services Division). The terms of this Currency Conversion Letter shall
continue to apply to any NDS UYU Currency Conversions requested or effected prior to such
termination date.
(c)    If, at any time, the Bank is unable to execute any Currency Conversion pursuant
to the terms of this Currency Conversion Letter, the provisions of this Currency Conversion
Letter shall cease to be applicable to all the Loans listed in Annex I, without prejudice to any
NDS UYU Currency Conversions already effected.
4.     For the avoidance of doubt, the Bank and the Borrower hereby acknowledge that the
acceptance by the Borrower of the terms of this Currency Conversion Letter does not prevent the
Borrower from requesting the Bank to execute Conversions from USD into UYU on deliverable
terms for those amounts of a Loan not subject to an NDS UYU Currency Conversion.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Penel pe . Brook
D tor
Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


﻿AGREED:
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
By:
Date:  - Nto  -  2AA


﻿ANNEX I
LIST OF AFFECTED LOANS
Loan Number               Project Name
71640      UR-Structural Adjustment Loan
71370      UR-Structural Adjustment Loan


﻿ANNEX II
NON-DELIVERABLE SETTLEMENT TERMS
1.    Non-deliverable settlement terms mean that all or a portion of the relevant Loan and the
respective principal and interest payments thereunder shall, following a Conversion, be
denominated in the Approved Currency (UYU) but payments shall be made in USD or another
currency at the exchange rate applicable to such payments as determined under the terms of this
Currency Conversion Letter.
2.     In the event of any inconsistency between the Conversion Guidelines and the terms of
this Currency Conversion Letter (which includes the Annexes), this Currency Conversion Letter
shall prevail.
3.     On each date on which interest and principal are payable under the terms of the Loan
Agreements (each a "Settlement Date"), all payments due under the NDS UYU Currency
Conversions (the "Settlement Amount") on such Settlement Date shall be determined in
accordance with the terms of the related Currency Hedge Transactions and paid by the Borrower
in the Settlement Currency, on substantially the following terms:
Settlement Currency:     USD
Loan Currency            UYU
Settlement Method and    The Settlement Amount shall be determined and paid on each
Settlement Amount:       Settlement Date and calculated for the respective Interest Period
in accordance with the following formula:
(Interest Amount + Principal Amount) / Settlement Rate
determined on the relevant Valuation Date
Interest Amount:         The aggregate interest amount due on the Loan in UYU on a
Settlement Date following the NDS UYU Currency Conversions,
with the interest amount in respect of each NDS UYU Currency
Conversion determined as the product of:
(a) that portion of the principal amount of the relevant Loan
withdrawn and outstanding converted into UYU;
(b) the applicable Interest Rate; and
(c) the applicable day count fraction
Interest Rate            For each NDS UYU Currency Conversion, the interest rate
applicable to that portion of the principal amount of the relevant
Loan withdrawn and outstanding and converted into UYU for
each relevant Interest Period.
Principal Amount         The principal amount of the relevant Loan denominated in UYU
due on a Settlement Date.


﻿Settlement Dates:        Each date specified in the relevant Loan Agreement on which
interest and principal amounts are payable, subject to adjustment
in accordance with the terms of the related Currency Hedge
Transaction.
Settlement Rate:         For a Valuation Date, the UYU/USD fixing rate, expressed as the
amount of UYU per one USD, for settlement on the same day,
reported by the Uruguayan Central Bank as published on
Bloomberg page URINUSCA <Cmcy> (or such other page as
may replace that page for the purpose of displaying such
exchange rate); or such other rate as may be specified in the
related Currency Hedge Transaction.
Valuation Dates:          The Valuation Dates specified in the related Currency Hedge
Transaction subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms
thereof. The Valuation Dates shall typically be five New York
and Montevideo Business Days prior to each Settlement Date.
4.    In the event that the Bank is unable to determine the Settlement Rate on a Valuation Date
as provided in this Annex II, the Bank shall determine the Settlement Rate, and adjust the relevant
Settlement Date, in accordance with the terms of the Confirmation(s) relating to the underlying
Currency Hedge Transaction(s) undertaken by the Bank in connection with the NDS UYU
Currency Conversions.
5.     Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Currency Conversion Letter and for
the avoidance of doubt, the Settlement Rate applicable to any payments due from the Borrower to
the Bank in respect of the NDS UYU Currency Conversions shall be the same rate(s) as that/those
applicable to the corresponding payments under the underlying Currency Hedge Transaction(s)
undertaken by the Bank in connection with the NDS UYU Currency Conversions.
6.     Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in the Loan Agreements or the Conversion
Guidelines, interest shall accrue and be payable in the Settlement Currency on the Principal
Amount comprised in any Settlement Amount due but not paid by the Borrower on an applicable
Settlement Date as follows:
(i)    for the first 30 days such portion of the Settlement Amount remains unpaid after
the Settlement Date, at the Variable Rate that would have been applicable to the Loan in
the original Loan Currency on the Settlement Date had the relevant NDS UYU Currency
Conversion not been effected plus the transaction fees provided for in the Conversion
Guidelines; and
(ii)   from the 3Is' day such portion of the Settlement Amount remains unpaid until
payment in full, at either: (a) the Default Interest Rate (if any) applicable to the Loan in
the original Loan Currency plus the transaction fees provided for in the Conversion
Guidelines; or (b) at the Variable Rate that would have been applicable to the Loan in the
original Loan Currency on the Settlement Date plus the transaction fees provided for in
the Conversion Guidelines; in either case in accordance with the terms of the Loan
Agreement and as if the relevant NDS UYU Currency Conversion not been effected.


