Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7164-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Structural Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7164-UR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 2003 between REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated March 
7, 2003 (the Letter of Development Policy), describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Program and the Bank has agreed to provide such assistance 
in an amount equal to one hundred fifty-one million five hundred twenty thousand  
Dollars ($151,520,000); and  
 
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in three 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) “ADME” 
means 
Administradora del Mercado Eléctrico
,
a
non-state 
public person (
persona pública no estatal
)
in charge of the administration of the 
electricity wholesale market in the Borrower’s territory, established pursuant to Law No. 
16.832 of June 17, 1997, or any successor thereto; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) 
“AFE” means 
Administración de Ferrocarriles del Estado
,
the 
Borrower’s autonomous railway entity in charge of rendering transportation services, 
established pursuant to Law No. 14.936 of July 10, 1975, or any successor thereto; 
(c) “ANCAP” 
means 
Administración Nacional de Combustibles, Alcohol  y 
Portland
,
the Borrower’s autonomous entity in charge of fuel, alcohol and Portland 
cement, established pursuant to Law No. 8.764 of October 15, 1931, or any successor 
thereto; 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Executive” means the executive branch of government of the Borrower; 
(f) 
“ILD” means international long distance telephone; 
(g) “MIEM” 
means 
Ministerio de Industria, Energía y Minería
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining; 
 
(h) “OPP” 
means 
Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto
,
the Borrower’s 
office of planning and budgeting, established pursuant to Article 230 of the Borrower’s 
Constitution; 
 
(i) “OSE” 
means 
Administración de Obras Sanitarias del Estado
,
the 
Borrower’s decentralized service entity in charge of providing water services in all of the 
Borrower’s territory and sanitation in all of the Borrower’s territory except the 
Department of Montevideo, established pursuant to Law No. 11.907 of December 19, 
1952, or any successor thereto; 
 
(j) 
“PPAs” means power purchase agreements awarded through competitive 
procedures; 
 
(k) 
“UFW” means unaccounted for water; 
 
(l) “URSEA” 
means 
Unidad Reguladora de los Servicios de Energía y 
Agua
,
the Borrower’s regulatory unit for energy and water services, a deconcentrated 
organ (
órgano desconcentrado
)
of
the Borrower, established pursuant to Law No. 17.598 
of December 13, 2002; and 
 
(m) 
“URSEC” means 
Unidad Reguladora de Servicios de Comunicaciones
,
the Borrower’s regulatory unit for communication services, a deconcentrated organ 
Page  5
-
4
-
(
órgano desconcentrado
)
of the Borrower, established pursuant to Articles 70 through 97 
of
 the Borrower’s National Budget Law (Law No. 17.296) of February 21, 2001. 
 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
fifty-one million five hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($151,520,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $150,004,800 from 
the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
amount of $51,520,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii), and (iii) above, as 
the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached the 
amount of $101,520,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have 
been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (i), (ii), and (iii) above, as 
the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of said fee. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be c
onsidered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to materially 
reverse any action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of 
the Bank, adversely affect the achievements of the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to materially 
reverse any action listed in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Agreement. 
(d) A
 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date July 14, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
 
Colonia No. 1089 
 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable address:   
Telex: 
 
MINECON 
 
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Facsimile:  (598) 2 900-0186 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Carlos Sténeri 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Redwood 
 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2008 
 
through October 15, 2017 
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  15
-
14
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
Regulatory Reform 
1. 
MIEM has issued a decree announcing the target tariff for electricity distribution 
and establishing a convergence path towards the target tariff (consistent with URSEA’s 
recommendation and the benchmarking studies carried out by URSEA). 
2. 
MIEM has issued a decree establishing the regulatory framework for the 
importation, production and commercialization of petroleum products. 
3. 
The Executive has issued a decree establishing the regulatory framework for the 
Borrower’s postal services sub-sector. 
4. 
The Executive has issued a decree approving two divisions within ANCAP with 
separate accounts, management and finances for its petroleum business and its port and 
logistic facilities. 
5. 
The Borrower has complied with a new natural gas law, which includes 
provisions to:  (a)  eliminate legal ambiguities, including with respect to the attributions 
of the public and private sector;  (b)  establish a tariff regime;  and (c)  define right of 
way issues. 
6. 
The Borrower’s Congress has approved and the Executive has promulgated a law 
establishing the legal and regulatory framework for the water supply and sanitation 
sector, which includes, 
inter alia
,
provisions to shift the authority to carry out feasibility 
studies and grant concessions from OSE to the Executive. 
Efficiency and Competition 
7. 
ADME has approved a first set of PPAs and has requested proposals for three 
ongoing energy contracts to be replaced by PPAs. 
8. 
The Executive has approved unit tariffs and URSEA has approved conditions for 
open access to ANCAP’s port, wholesale oil import, and storage facilities. 
Page  17
-
16
-
9. 
OSE has offered to award  a performance-based contract to a private operator for 
the management of the UFW reduction program in Montevideo, as evidenced by the 
public offer issued for the award of the contract. 
10. 
The Borrower has brought to the point of concession the management of the 
Carrasco International Airport, as evidenced by the issuance of invitations to bid for the 
award of the concession. 
Institutional Development 
11. 
The Borrower, through MIEM, has published and complied with
 
a
national 
energy policy which addresses issues relating to:  (a)  the relative price of fuels; (b) the 
economics of gas and electricity importation from Argentina and Brazil; (c)  the 
economics and politics of a strategic national reserve of generating capacity;  (d)  the 
environmental impact of changes in the country’s energy portfolio; (e)  the consistency of 
the new electricity, gas and petroleum regulations with the national energy policy; and (f) 
the institutional capacity required to implement and monitor a national energy policy. 
12. 
The Borrower has fulfilled all of the conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to the 
Special Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement of even date herewith (Loan 7165-UR). 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement 
Regulatory Reform 
1. (a) 
Private and public utilities under URSEA’s and URSEC’s jurisdiction 
have implemented regulatory accounting, as certified by independent auditors; and
 
(b) 
private and public utilities under URSEA’s and URSEC’s jurisdiction 
have published performance indicators for the fourth quarter of 2003. 
2. 
The Borrower has fully closed the gap between the ex-refinery and the estimated 
import parity prices of petroleum derivatives. 
Efficiency and Competition 
3. 
The Borrower has reduced relative price distortions in the structure of fuel 
taxation, through the enactment of any necessary amendments to existing tax laws, to the 
extent necessary to reach equilibrium with the major neighboring countries. 
4. 
The first spot transactions for electricity have been completed under the 
framework of the ADME. 
5. 
URSEC has: (a)  set up  an independent telephone numbering management 
system;  (b)  adopted a customer database administrator; and (c)  defined precise rules for 
signaling (i.e., identifying the origin and destination of a telephone call). 
6. 
(a) 
The Borrower has brought to the point of concession the management of 
the  Montevideo port multipurpose terminal (
puerto polivalente
), as evidenced by the 
issuance of invitations to bid for the award of the concession; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower has offered to award contracts to private companies to 
operate in former AFE rail network, as evidenced by the public offer issued for the award 
of the contracts.. 
7. 
The Borrower has fulfilled all of the conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to the 
Special Structural Adjustment Loan Agreement of even date herewith (Loan 7165-UR).
Page  19
-
18
-
