Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21822
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26580; PPFI-P8860)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR12.5 MILLION
TO
GEORGIA
FOR A
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 26, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 1994)
Currency Unit = Coupon
I Coupon = US$ 0,0001 cents
US$ I = Coupon 1,500,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
GICMP        -      Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project
IDA          -      International Development Association
MIRP         -      Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
MoF          -      Ministry of Finance
SA           -      Special Account
SAR          -      Staff Appraisal Report
S3F          -      Social Investment Fund
PIU          -      Project Implementation Unit
PSR          -      Project Supervision Report
USAID        -      United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:   Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Director:   Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:   Margret Thalwitz, ECSIN
Task Team Leader:   Ellen Hamilton, ECSIN



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GEORGIA
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     9
6. Sustainability                                                                        10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       14
9. Partner Comments                                                                      15
10. Additional Information                                                              27
Annex l. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008417                                       Project Name: Municipal Infrastructure
Rehabilitation
Team Leader: Ellen Hamilton                               TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: February 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation        L/C/TFNNumber: IDA-26580;
PPFI-P8860
Count,y/Department: GEORGIA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management; VY - Other Environment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/30/94                                Effective: 02/10/95           01/19/95
Appraisal:  09/13/94                                  MTR: 07/15/96              12/16/95
Approval:  11/08/94                                Closing: 12/31/97            06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE/AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT OF MUNICIPAL
SERVICES
Other Partners: USAID, SOROS
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP                   Wilfried Thalwitz, EMNVP
Country Manager:     Judy M. O'Connor, ECCO3                   Basil G. Kavalsky, EC4DR
Sector Manager:      Margret C. Thalwitz, ECSIN                Thomas Blinkhom, EC4HM
Team Leader at ICR:   Ellen Hamilton, ECSIN                    Robert Maurer, EC4HM
ICR Primary Author:   Ellen Hamilton; Peter Doty;
Delphine Hamilton (ECSIN);
Zurab Javakhishvili (ECCGE)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had three short-term objectives: (1) preserving essential infrastructure and municipal services,
(2) improving management and delivery of municipal services in a sustainable and environmentally
beneficial manner, and (3) reinforcing credibility of local governments through visible interventions in key
services in order to reinstate public confidence and ensure social stability. The long-term objective was to
provide a foundation for future reforms aimed at improving overall management and delivery of crucial
municipal services.
The objectives are imprecise and could have been sharpened. The objective to reinforce the credibility of
local governments is especially vague and difficult to measure. This objective would have been more
appropriately considered to be a long-term objective, especially since the project was conceived of as an
emergency project when it was developed as the first investment project in Georgia after several years of
civil unrest.
The project responded to the Government's urgent request for assistance to improve critical municipal
services. The project included a series of small investments dispersed both geographically and sectorally.
Since the investments were small and scattered, and since the mandate was to carry out the work urgently,
the project was not intended to address policy issues. The project did, however, lead to follow on projects
(see Section 6.2) that address sectoral reform.
The project was approved and became effective before the first CAS, the limited CAS, was presented to the
Board in March 1995; nonetheless the objectives were fully consistent with those in this CAS as well as in
the September 22, 1997 CAS. The project responded to the Borrower's insistent request for immediate
interventions to improve critical municipal services including health, education and water supply.
The project was complex, both because it envisioned a series of physical investments in several cities and
several sectors, but also because of the Borrower's newness to working with the Bank, the absence of local
staff with the necessary k'.owledge and skills, continued instability in the country, and difficulties in
communicating with Georgia due to frequent power outages, poor quality telephone lines and the lack of
courier services or reliable mail delivery to the country.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.3 Originail Conmponents:
The project comprised both physical investments (US$15.3 million) and institutional development
(US$1.95 million)
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION INVESTMENT COMPONENT (US$15.3 million): The
Bank and the Government agreed on a program of investments to improve municipal services, which met
the following criteria: (a) those on which the population depends for its health or survival; (b) those
deemed essential for sustaining labor mobility and economic activity; (c) those that can be stabilized,
reactivated or rehabilitated through provision of spares and/or replacements in a relatively short period; (d)
those in which the combination of social disruption and economic transition creates risks of unacceptably
high social costs if not remedied immediately; and (e) those for which alternative external assistance is not
likely to be available for the short term.
-2-



*      Tbilisi Immediate Action Plan (US$3. 17 million): The Action Plan included (i) weatherproofing
and insulation of 23 key hospitals and school buildings; (ii) installation of dedicated electricity lines for 15
hospitals; and (iii) purchase of essential spare parts and equipment for the city underground system and
above ground public transport system.
*     Short Term Investment Program (US$12.16 million): The Short Term Investment Program was
designed to respond to urgent identified needs in Tbilisi, Batumi, Poti and other cities by rehabilitating
essential municipal infrastructure:
1. Tbilisi (US$ 7.27 million): The Tbilisi program was intended to build on the earlier Tbilisi Immediate
Action Plan by improving heating in schools and hospitals and by further rehabilitating the existing
public transportation system. In addition, investments were to be made to improve water supply,
wastewater treatment and disposal of solid waste.
2. Batumi (US$2.13 million): To mitigate problems in maintaining adequate water supply, wastewater
treatment, and solid waste, investments were to be made in these areas.
3. Poti (US$0.95 million): Investments were to be made in wastewater and solid waste management since
these were the source of the two major environmental and health hazards in the city.
4. Other Municipalities (US$1.80. million): A small fund was established to finance urgently needed
infrastructure rehabilitation in other cities.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT (US$1.95 million): This component was intended
to finance institutional development support to help: (a) implement the project effectively; (b) initiate a
process to develop, over time, local capabilities in such critical areas as project and financial management,
procurement, investment analysis, environnental assessment; (c) the Government to formulate a realistic
future strategy for the management and delivery of key municipal services; (d) develop coherent strategies
and action programs, mainly at the local government level, to control and alleviate serious pollution
problems along Georgia's Black Sea coast.
*     Independent Agency for Development of Municipal Services (US$0.26 million). The Agency was
created to implement the project with the explicit understanding that it would be closed at the end of the
project.
*      Technical Assistance (TA) and Studies (US$1.68 million). This component would be used for
training related to project implementation and management, public awareness activities, and technical
studies such as integrated coastal zone management on the Black Sea coast, a master plan for Tbilisi water
supply and household waste, and a sectoral study of municipal services, including housing.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not changed during project execution; however some adjustments were made
to sub-components in response to changed circumstances. Selected sub-projects generally complied with
the criteria described in 3.3 above.
After negotiations, the Ministry of Education's main building was gutted by a fire and the Government
requested urgent assistance from the Bank to use about USD $1 million in funds to renovate it since the
availability of this space was important to the Ministry's ability to improve education. The Bank agreed to
this change and the building was rehabilitated. It will be used by the Ministry of Education to house new
programs as part of the educational reform being supported by the Bank's Education Project. Activities
and programs to be housed in the building include: curriculum, text books, teacher's training, policy and
study, education management, information technology and public relations. Without this space these
programs would be scattered throughout the city, which would make coordination efforts very difficult.
- 3 -



The Bank also agreed to a request by Tbilisi to use some funds designated for the city to purchase 15
ambulances to supplement the 9 poorly functioning municipal ambulances then available for the city's 1.5
million residents. The new ambulances cut response time in half and reduced the refusal rate (due to
non-availability of ambulances) by three times. Purchase of several 4x4 ambulances permitted full
geographical coverage of the city. The ambulances were equipped to provide advanced life support both at
the site and during transportation. As part of the investment, the city made changes in how operation of the
ambulances was financed and introduced a standard fee of 15 Lari for ambulance use. As a result of the
improved cost recovery, the emergency service has been better able to maintain and operate the
ambulances.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review this project for quality at entry.
Quality at entry was satisfactory. The project was conceived of originally as an emergency reconstruction
project in response to the Government's priority to improve the provision of municipal services. The
project complied with the Bank's safeguard policies. The project became effective before the first CAS,
the limited CAS, was submitted to the Board in March, 1995.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome of this project was satisfactory.
Project short-term objectives to: (1) preserve essential infrastructure and municipal services, (2) improve
management and delivery of municipal services in a sustainable and environmentally beneficial manner, and
(3) reinforce the credibility of local governments through visible interventions in key services in order to
reinstate public confidence and ensure social stability, were met by:
a     Improvements in Education: Primary and secondary weatherproofing of schools in Tbilisi, Telavi
and Senaki eliminated the need to close schools due to the weather (in Tbilisi, schools had been closed for
12 weeks during the winter) and permitted students to resume a normal classroom schedule. The
Government emphasized the importance that returning schools to normal functioning had for restoring
social stability, in addition to improving the delivery of education in general.
*     Improvements in Health: Provision of health services in Tbilisi, Telavi, Chiatura and Zugdidi was
improved by weatherproofing (in Tbilisi and Zugdidi), installation of boilers and dedicated electricity lines
(in Tbilisi), roof insulation (in Telavi) and rehabilitation of a regional hospital in Chiatura. Dedicated
electricity lines increased power supply from about 6 hours per day for half the year to 24 hours per day
year round. Hospitals were better and more efficiently heated and delivery of hospital healthcare improved.
X     Improvements in Water Supply: In Kutaisi, investment in a new gravity-fed water pipeline meant
10,000 families received water daily for eight hours, instead of twice a week for one hour. Furthermore, by
improving the collection rate from 0 to 10-15% of households, the city has been able to cover the operating
and maintenance costs for the pipeline, the least costly source of water for the city since the other sources
require high inputs of energy. In Tbilisi, repair of the Tsavkisi pump station increased availability of water
to one region of the city from once a week to every other day. Purchase of utility vehicles for Tbilisi
reduced the water company's response time to system problems by 18-20%.
- 4 -



M     Improvements in Sewerage:
1.    In Tbilisi, the two most damaged sewage collectors were replaced thus eliminating leakage that not
only damaged the pavement, but also filled house basements with fecal water. Before replacement,
the collectors were repaired about 5 to 6 times a year at a cost of 4000 Lari per repair; however no
repairs have been necessary since collector replacement. The project also financed purchase of a
special sewage cleaning vehicle, which is used to clean 4 km. of pipe each month and saves about
18,000 to 20,000 Lari per month.
2.    In Batumi, rehabilitation of 3 kms. of the sewage network improved sewage collection for about
11% of the population. Purchase of a radio communication system enabled coordination among
substations since messengers are no longer needed to hand deliver instructions and messages.
3.    In Poti, rehabilitation of the pumping stations improved functioning of the overall sewage network,
which is fully dependent on these pumping stations. The radio communications system improved
communication and efficiency in Poti, as it did in Batumi.
4.    In Zugdidi, rehabilitation of the city's sole wastewater treatment plant reduced dumping of raw
sewage directly into the Chkhobiashi river, which runs into the Black Sea, by 65-70 percent.
*     Improvements in Solid Waste:
1.    In Tbilisi, operations and maintenance of the new garbage trucks has been covered by improved
cosf recovery and the introduction of a fee for solid waste removal.
2.    In Batumi, garbage trucks and new dumpsters significantly improved sanitary conditions by
providing more legal dumpsters (which reduced the number of illegal waste sites), increasing the
frequency of waste collection and eliminating storage of garbage in apartment and other buildings.
3.    In Batumi, construction of the landfill wall stopped erosion of a large landfill into a river flowing
directly into the Black Sea, which was a major source of pollution.
4.    In Poti, new equipment permitted garbage collection and dump management to be handled more
efficiently.
5.    In Zugdidi, the influx of refugees due to the conflict with Abkhazia far exceeded the city's
resources to manage solid waste and by the mid-1990s, uncollected trash littered the streets. By
purchasing and distributing new waste containers in the areas most affected by the influx of
refugees, the city was able to dramatically reduce illegal dumping. Purchase of a new garbage
truck increased the city's ability to collect trash by about 20%. Fees collected from city residents
are sufficient to cover the operating costs of the truck.
Improvements in Public Transportation: In Tbilisi, Metro officials believe that the Metro would
have been forced to stop operations without the MIRP investments in the Metro. Since about 90% of the
population relied on the Metro for transportation during the mid 1990s, the Government believes its
continued functioning was essential not only for social stability, but also for the continued functioning of
the city generally since alternative sources of transportation were not available in those years.
As part of the investment, the Metro eliminated the system of permitting certain categories of
citizens, such as pensioners or veterans, to be waved through the gates by an attendant. Instead, all citizens
were required to use fare cards. The Government was responsible for providing (and paying for) fare cards
issued to categories of citizens eligible for free travel. Thus, the Tbilisi Metro became the first metro in the
former Soviet Union to adopt a fully transparent subsidy system. The Metro also agreed to a fare increase.
While data were not available to quantify the improvement, Bank staff were informed that the significant
increase in fares and the elimination of unpaid passengers made it possible to end the government subsidy
to the Metro in 1996. Furthermore, the Metro believes it is better able to manage its resources since the
new fare system provides much better information about passengers than was available earlier.
- 5-



The project achieved its long-term objective of providing the foundation for future reforms by supporting
dialogue that resulted in a series of follow on projects in different sectors: health, education, water, coastal
environmental protection (the Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project), municipal development
and decentralization and community strengthening through a social fund. Those projects support sectoral
reforms.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Phase I - Tbilisi Immediate Action Plan
1) Weatherproofing and Energy Services (projected US$ 2.11 million; actual US$2.64 million including
$0.36 million in financing by USAID) (schools and hospitals). Primary weatherproofing to seal buildings
damaged due to civil strife and general lack of resources for maintenance was carried out in 204 schools
housing about 150,000 students and in 24 public hospitals in Tbilisi.
2) Urban Transport Services (projected US$ 1.06 million; actual US$ 1.25 million). This component
provided for critically needed spare parts for the Metro and for Thiltrans (Tbilisi Public Transport) to
operate trolley and diesel buses.
Phase II - Short Term Investment Program
1) Tbilisi
(i) Heating (projected US$ 1.97 million; actual US $2.51 million). Under this component boilers were
installed in 49 schools and 9 public hospitals. Roof repair and insulation has been carried out in 112
schools and 9 hospitals. Visits to 7 schools by consultants investigating the feasibility of fmnancing more
school heating units in the autumn of 2000 confirmed that the city had provided sufficient oil to the schools
to operate the heaters, althc ugh in one case problems with the tank location meant the heater was not
fimctional. In one of the schools visited, parents were responsible for providing 70% of the costs of
maintaining the school, including heat.
(ii) Urban Transport (projected US$ 3.03 million; actual US$ 2.70 million). The component financed
procurement of critical spare parts such as accumulators, electric engines, transformers, equipment for
railway lines, cables, sleepers and rails. The component also financed purchase of new tumstyles and a
telemanagement system for managing the metro's power supplies to replace one burned in a fire in the early
1990s.
(iii) Water Supply (projected US$ 1.32 million; actual US$ 1.49 million) and Wastewater (projected
US$0.61 million; actual US$0.69 million). This component included immediate support to Thiltskalcanal,
the Water Utility of Tbilisi. Due to the economic collapse in Georgia after 1989, as well as civil unrest
from 1991-1994, pumps, spare parts for pumps, special vehicles, a truck crane, excavator, welding
machine, etc. were needed for system repairs The component also included reconstruction of Tsavkisi
pump station, which supplied the 3400 residents and 5000 refugees living in Tskneti, a resort area near
Tbilisi, with potable water. The project financed replacement of the two most damaged sewage collectors
in Bagrationi and Kutaisi streets, where leakage had not only damaged the pavement, but also had filled
house basements with fecal water. The project also financed purchase of a special sewage cleaning vehicle,
which is used to clean 4 km. of pipe each month.
- 6 -



(iv) Solid Waste (projected US$ 0.32 million; actual US$ 0.36 million). This component financed
purchase of 14 garbage trucks, which collect about 260 to 280 m' (or about 8%) of Tbilisi's solid waste
every day. In addition to the garbage trucks, the project financed four street sweeping vehicles used for the
downtown area of the city. Also, the component financed the purchase of different type of accumulators,
tires and other spare parts under this component to repair damaged trucks.
(v) Education Center (actual US$ 0.98 million (US$ 0.66 million financed by the Bank and US$ 0.32
million financed by the Government)). The Bank agreed to include rehabilitation of the main Ministry of
Education building, which burned in late 1994, after the project became effective in January, 1995. The
component included reconstruction of 5500 sq. meters of floor space.
(vi) Ambulances (actual US$ 285,000). This component provided for purchase of 15 ambulances to
replace some of the ambulances stolen or destroyed during the civil war.
2) Batumi
(i) Wastewater (projected US$ 0.93 million; actual US$ 1.09 million). This component financed purchase
of 26 km. of asbesto-cement pipes, as well as purchase of a sewage cleaning vehicle with an excavator.
The pipes were to be installed by the water utility; however, the utility incorrectly estimated installation
costs thus the city only had enough resources to install 3 km. of the pipe (2 km. of this pipe were
subsequently installed in Poti's wastewater system).
(ii) Solid Waste (projected US$ 0.48 million; actual US$ 0.89 million). The project financed 10 garbage
trucks, one watering vehicle, one sweeping vehicle, three bulldozers and 300 waste containers. As a result
of the investment, the city replaced its system of garbage rooms in each building, which were unsanitary,
attracted cockroaches, rats and flies, and labor intensive to empty and clean, with 300 waste containers
distributed throughout the city and 10 trucks used to empty the containers. The city also used the
equipment to collect illegally dumped waste from many places across the city.
This component also financed construction of a landfill retaining wall along the bank of the Chorokhi
River. The retaining wall keeps the river from eroding a large 100-year old landfill, located 1.5 km.
upstream from the Black Sea, and dumping the waste into the sea.
(iii) Water Supply (projected US$ 0.72 million; actual US$ 0.50). The component included purchase of a
radio transmission system, pumps of different capacity and cables. The radio transmission system
significantly improved communication among the substations since communication no longer depended on
an actual visit to the substation. Refurbishment of pumps ensured the reliability of the city's water supply,
especially when the river intakes were closed.
3) Poti
(i) Wastewater (projected US$ 0.73 million; actual US$ 0.91 million). The component financed purchase
of asbestos-cement pipes, different type of pumps, sewage cleaning equipment, a crane, excavator and
radio communication system.
(ii) Solid Waste (projected US$ 0.21 million; actual US$ 0.21 million). This component included
purchase of six garbage trucks, one watering vehicle and one bulldozer to improve the efficiency of solid
waste collection and dump management.
-7 -



4) Other Municipalities (projected US$ 1.8 million; actual US$ 1.37 million)
(i) Kutaisi (actual $530,000). The project financed installation of a new gravity-fed water pipeline to
provide water to about 10,000 families in the northem part of the city.
(ii) Telavi (actual US$ 200, 000). The project financed primary weatherproofing and roof insulation of the
two main schools and the city's only matemity hospital with 60 beds. This enabled the region to lengthen
the school year and improved the quality of care in the hospital.
(iii) Senaki (actual US$ 200,000). The project financed primary weatherproofing of the 11 most heavily
damaged schools of the 23 in Senaki. Located in westem Georgia, Senaki suffered heavily during the civil
unrest and 2300 students attended the damaged schools.
(iv) Chiatura (actual US$ 100,000). The project financed rehabilitation of the largest multipurpose
hospital in Chiatura district with 120 beds, which serves the entire Zemo Imereti region. Installation of two
boilers enabled the hospital to serve patients during winter time. The nearest cities with equivalent services
are one hour away.
(vi) Zugdidi (actual US$ 344,000). The project fmnanced primary weatherproofing of two hospitals,
rehabilitation of the city's sole water treatment plant, and purchase of one sewage vehicle, one garbage
truck and 127 waste containers. Near the Abkhaz border, Zugdidi is home to 49,000 residents and an
additional 62,000 refugees. The hospital buildings now house about 1,500 refugees who were formerly
occupying 5 schools, thus preventing them from being used for students.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An econornic analysis was not carried out at appraisal due to the many distortions and uncertainties in the
Georgian economy; however, a qualitative analysis was carried out and summarized in section 3.60 of the
SAR. The project generally achieved the results expected in the analysis in the SAR. The project's results
in education, healthcare, Tbilisi urban transport, water supply in Tbilisi and Batumi, wastewater treatment
in Tbilisi, Batumi and Poti and solid waste management in Tbilisi, Batumi and Poti are summarized in
sections 4.1 and 4.2 of this ICR.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A. This project was appraised as an emergency project thus no rates of return were projected and
comparisons with projected rates of return cannot be made.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact was satisfactory:
a. PIU staff trained on the MIRP subsequently assumed key positions on a number of other Bank projects,
including ICZM, Tbilisi Water and the SIF.
b. Reform in the Metro fare system resulted in a far more transparent subsidy system, as well as much
improved cost recovery.
-8 -



c. Municipalities participating in the project improved provision of municipal services, (e.g., providing
water more frequently to residents, more frequent collection of solid waste, reducing weather related
closings of schools and providing healthcare facilities with continuous sources of power; see Sections 4.1
and 4.2).
d. The project contributed to development of the State Program for Decentralization, as well as state
strategies for approaching environmental issues in the coastal Black Sea region and commitmnent to moving
towards private sector operators for large utilities such as the Tbilisi Water and Wastewater Enterprise.
Although overall institutional development was satisfactory, implementation of the financial management
aspect of the project was unsatisfactory.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The PIU overcame a number of country factors that could have limited implementation. On-going civil
unrest in the area near the break away region of Abkhazia, as well as in Ossetia and Chechnya virtually
stopped all transportation along the major land links to Russia and, especially during the early years of the
project, alternative border crossings were not well developed.
Because of the unrest and lack of stability, private sector bidders from other countries were unwilling either
to deliver goods to Georgia or to bid on works in Georgia. As a result, the PIU had to take possession of
goods in another country and assure delivery. The PIU believes one of the major accomplishments in those
early years was in successfully arranging for goods to be shipped to Georgia through areas such as
Chechnya without any losses in transit. The international private sector's lack of interest in bidding on
works in Georgia resulted in several failed procurement attempts and subsequent redesign of procurement
arrangements for those works (i.e., by breaking contracts up into goods and works, instead of supply and
installation).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Beginning in late 1997, the Government's weakening fiscal performance contributed to a portfolio-wide
deterioration in provision of counterpart funding. The failure to provide counterpart funding to the
Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project became a critical issue at that time and seriously affected
implementation.
As the original project closing date neared (December 31, 1997), key PITJ staff left the project to assume
positions in new projects. The remaining staff were less qualified and implementation performance
suffered. The use of inexperienced procurement staff in particular led to multiple delays in procuring the
final three contracts and resulted in several requests for extension.
Lax supervision on the part of the Government pernitted the PIU and the Ministry of Education to arrange
for a commercial loan, which was falsely represented to the Bank as counterpart funding for completion of
the Education Center.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIU failed to inform the Bank of developing problems, such as SA funds frozen in a local bank, the
failure of contractors to keep to work schedules and the source of the counterpart funds provided for the
Education Center, which were from a commercial loan, not the Government.
-9-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was originally estimated at US$ 19.7 million, US$18.0 million of which would be
financed by IDA. The fnal cost was US$20.2 million, of which IDA financed US$17.7 million.
As shown in Annex 2, expenditures in Batumi and Poti, as well as on institutional development, were
broadly consistent with expenditures estimated at appraisal; however, expenditures in Tbilisi exceeded the
estimates, while those in Other Municipalities (i.e., not in Batumi, Poti or Tbilisi), were lower than
expected. The major reason for this reallocation of resources to Tbilisi was the decision to include
rehabilitation of the Education Center after project effectiveness (see Section 3.4). The Government agreed
to provide additional counterpart financing for the Education Center, which also explains the increase in the
total cost of the project.
The project was intended to close in December, 1997; however, the closing date was extended a total of
three times and the actual closing date was June 30, 2000. The extensions were requested to permit
completion of three contracts, which had been delayed. In one case (Metro telemanagement) no qualified
bids were received on a supply and installation contract, which was subsequently redesigned and rebid as a
contract for goods only. In a second case (Batumi Wall) costs were underestimated and arranging
financing for costs above the amount available in the project required dividing the work into two
coordinated contracts. The need for additional counterpart funds from Batumi also resulted in some delay.
In the third case, the Education Center, the Bank agreed to the Government's request to add the component
only after effectiveness in January 1995 at which time design of the work had not even been started. The
project was also delayed due to the PIU's inexperience with procurement procedures for this kind of work,
poor response from the private sector which resulted in intensive (and lengthy) review of bids before
contract award, several substantive changes in the scope of work, failure to closely supervise the contract
by the PIU, weak financial management, which meant the PIU had difficulty in tracking contract
expenditures, and a failure by the Government to provide counterpart funds according to the agreed
schedule. Eleven months a1er work on the contract commenced, the Bank discovered that an initial
payment presented to the Bank as counterpart funds had, in fact, been a loan from a commercial bank and
that those funds had been withdrawn from the PIU's bank account immediately after contract signature
(apparently without written authorization from the PIU). The Bank was not notified of this withdrawal and
the absence of counterpart funds resulted in additional delays by the contractor.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely for the following reasons:
1) The MIRP provided for a series of small investments in different cities in Georgia; which became a
jumping off point for a series of follow on projects intended to support sectoral reform in health, education,
water, the environment (management of the coastal zone areas), decentralization and community building.
2) The physical investments were identified in response to strong client demand; although 4 years have
elapsed since most investments were made, the beneficiaries have continued to maintain and operate the
investments satisfactorily.
- 10-



3) Some investments (the Metro, ambulances, solid waste and water) were structured to leverage
additional institutional reform at the local level. This has contributed substantially to the sustainability of
those investments by addressing fundamental problems such as very low rates of cost recovery, which
resulted in high rates of disinvestment in the capital stock due to the inability to cover even the most routine
maintenance.
6.2 Transition arrangenment to regular operations:
The PIU established to implement the MIRP, an independent agency reporting to the MOF, was closed at
the end of the project as agreed at project inception; however, the key staff have been absorbed by other
projects. The PIU was not directly responsible for the operation and maintenance of project investments,
thus sustainability was not affected by the PIU's closure.
The MIRP resulted in a series of follow-up operations:
Municipal Development and Decentralization Project (in supervision): The objective of this project is to
further develop local government capacity by linking access to a fund for critical capital repairs to
improved financial and governance capability.
Georgia Integrated Coastal Management Project (in supervision): This project expanded the scope of the
MIRP's coastal management component to achieve self-standing and sustainable objectives. The project
will help Georgia to strengthen its local institutions to improve the management and use of the coastal
resources of the Black Sea, and to meet its international commitments under the Black Sea Environmental
Program.
Tbilisi Water and Sewerage Project (in preparation): The objective of this project is to improve the
performance of the utility by bringing in a private sector utility operator to run the utility in accordance
with an agreed performance management contract.
Social Investment Fund (in supervision): This community-driven fund was established as a mechanism to
ease the decline in living standards, and support basic social services, during the transition period to a
market-based economy.
In addition to the above projects, which were at least partly prepared using MIRP resources, MIRP
investments in education and health have been incorporated into the ongoing health and education projects.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation was satisfactory.
The MIRP was the first investment project in Georgia, a newly independent country just emerging from a
series of civil conflicts. The project was designed to be a first step in developing a series of interventions
that would move Georgia towards economic stability, sustained growth and improved living standards.
- 11 -



The project was to address urgent needs for rehabilitation of critical municipal infrastructure, which was
collapsing. The project was consistent with objectives to help reverse the economic decline, to assist the
transition to a market economy, and alleviate poverty in the initial limited CAS for Georgia, which was
presented to the Board in March 1995 after the MIRP was already effective. The project remained
consistent with the 1997 CAS objectives to strengthen and diversify the sources of growth by removing
remaining barriers to private sector development, to protect Georgia's environmental and natural resources,
and to address poverty issues.
Originally conceived of as an emergency response, the MIRP was designed simply and prepared and
appraised rapidly (from identification to appraisal in 3 months). Due to the Borrower's lack of experience,
the Bank provided substantial support in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project. Serious
efforts were made consistent with practice at the time to assess financial management and procurement
requirements and to provide for the design and implementation of adequate systems by recruiting
international consultants with those skills while simultaneously training local staff. This situation was
complicated by the country's political instability, which meant few qualified consultants were interested in
working in Georgia. Furthermore, power blackouts and poor quality telephone lines made communications
by phone, fax and telex very difficult, and no commercial couriers served Georgia.
The project was coordinated with emergency assistance provided by USAID in weatherproofing of schools
and hospitals. The Soros Foundation provided a bridge loan of $500,000 to enable project activities to
begin more quickly.
An implementation plan was prepared as part of the SAR and the project largely followed the agreed plan.
Performance indicators were not originally developed; however, some indicators were added to subsequent
PSRs.
The program of urban investments complied with the safeguard policy on environmental assessment; the
other safeguards were not applicable.
7.2 Stipervision:
Although in many respects Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory, the failure to adequately
supervise financial management results in rating Bank performance in supervision as unsatisfactory.
The Borrower's lack of experience, significant communication problems in the early years of the project,
and continuing political instability required intensive supervision efforts by the Bank team on literally every
aspect of the project on a daily basis. To give one example, due to the lack of procurement experience, the
Borrower was required to hire procurement consultants; however, selecting the procurement consultants
required following established Bank procurement guidelines, with which the Borrower had no experience.
The Bank reviews and guidance were essential to hiring the consultants in September 1995. These kinds of
implementation issues were overcome only with substantial Bank involvement, far beyond what would be
the case in most projects.
- 12 -



Design of the financial management system for the project was contracted out to intemational consultants;
however, little attention was paid to how the system they designed was used. Furthermore, the project
relied on a local audit firmn with little experience in intemational-standard audits for project audits even
after intemational auditors had begun to work in Georgia. Bank supervision teams did not include financial
management expertise until 1997, several years after the project was effective, and inaccuracies in the
fnancial records dating to project inception were not found until two years later in 1999. The Bank did not
require the immediate closure of the local project account in a bank that became risky, and that bank
ultimately failed freezing Special Account funds in this account. As a result of these problems, the
Government hired an auditor acceptable to the Bank to review project finances from the beginning;
however, the auditors were not able to form an opinion due to the poor quality of the financial records. The
auditors found no evidence of corruption or of financing ineligible expenditures, which suggests that
supervision of procurement and physical implementation was adequate.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
Overall Bank performance was unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation was satisfactory, especially since this was the first investment project
in the country. The project was prepared rapidly using a PPF as well as a bridge loan from the Soros
Foundation. The commitment of the Borrower can be seen in the time required for preparation. Identified in
June 1994, the project was appraised and negotiated by the end of the year and became effective in
January, 1995.
7.5 Government implemnentation peiformance:
Govemment performance was unsatisfactory.
Government performance during the first three years of the project was satisfactory with timely provision
of counterpart contributions, overall support for the PIU, and a strong commitment to resolve problems so
project implementation would proceed on schedule.
As the originally projected closing date (December 31, 1997) neared, performance deteriorated and became
unsatisfactory. Counterpart contributions became an increasing problem. Qualified key staff from the
Agency who left for other projects were replaced by less qualified people, which resulted in a deterioration
in the PIUJ's overall capacity. Govenmment involvement in the project lessened as priorities shifted to other
projects and problems and as the rapidly growing borrowing program stressed institutional capacities.
During this period major problems developed, including (a) special account funds in an illiquid local bank
account; and (b) a large payment ostensibly made as counterpart contribution, which, in actuality, was a
short-term loan that subsequently disappeared from the PIUs bank account. The Government neither took
steps to resolve these problems nor to notify the Bank. Failure to provide counterpart funds for PIU
salaries contributed to the deterioration in PIU performance.
After the Bank discovered these problems in late 1999 and brought them to the attention of the
Govemment, performance improved significantly as the line ministry (the Ministry of Finance) took an
active and involved role in supervising the PIU, providing the necessary counterpart funds and making sure
that all agreed actions were implemented on time.
- 13 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Although implementing agency performance was genemlly satisfactory during the first three years of the
project, performance subsequently deteriorated significantly and overall performance was unsatisfactory.
During the early years, the PIU, operating in a very difficult environment, rapidly implemented the project
and more than 80% of the Credit was disbursed by the end of FY1997.
As the original closing date neared, the most qualified staff took jobs in other PIUs, since the MIRP PIU
was designed to be closed at project closing. This resulted in a deterioration in the P113s ability to handle
routine project management, especially procurement, contract supervision and financial management.
During the last two years of the project, the PIU failed to inform the Bank of critical factors affecting
project implementation, including the freezing of SA funds in an iliquid local bank. The PIU also
represented a commercial loan arranged by the Ministry of Education and paid into the P1U1s local account
to the Bank, as a deposit for counterpart contributions on the Education Center. Furthermore, the PIU
failed to inform the Bank when those funds were withdrawn by the lending bank from the PI1Us bank
account.
Six months before the final closing date of the project, the Bank requested the Government to arrange for
an audit of all project expenditures from project inception resulted in the inability of the auditors to express
an opinion due to what they described as gross financial mismanagement; however the auditors, who
reviewed about 40% of expenditures, did not find evidence of ineligible expenditures or corruption.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The performance of the Boi Tower was unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The project was responsive to the Borrower's priorities. This generated a strong commitment by the
Borrower to project implementation in the first three years. This was important given the newness of the
Borrower and the many difficulties in implementing the project in Georgia, especially during the early
years.
Rapid preparation of this project had both benefits (responsiveness to urgent needs, strong ownership, etc.)
and costs (the responsible institutions had to learn the meaning of financial discipline, transparency and
competitive procurement). Although a strong effort was made by both the Borrower and the Bank at the
beginning, ,hifting priorities and a rapidly growing and diversifying lending portfolio stretched both
Borrower and Bank resources. Bank supervision resources declined in real terms and did not keep pace
with the assistance needed by the Borrower.
Strong support by the Bank team initially helped move this first investment project forward. Even during
periods of reduced Borrower interest and diminished Bank resources, Bank staff maintained daily contact
on Bank procedures and provided advice on how to proceed and this helped to prevent an even greater
deterioration in project performance during the final years of implementation.
- 14 -



Applying standard Bank approaches to procurement in a country recently at war was unrealistic and this is
illustrated by several failed attempts to procure internationally. For example, supply and installation of the
metro's telemanagement system was originally bid internationally, but the value of the work was not high
enough to attract any responses from qualified firms willing to mobilize in such an uncertain and risky
environment.
Although the Bank's willingness to accomodate Georgia's initial request to extend the project closing date in
order to complete procurement of the remaining three contracts was understandable, in retrospect closing
the project, which was largely completed, as originally scheduled may have made better use of scarce
Government and Bank resources and would have averted some of the problems that developed as interest in
the project declined.
The Bank's failure to supervise financial management as closely as it supervised other aspects of the project
resulted in the loss of financial discipline on the project and in a loss of transparency.
Implementation progress was directly related to the degree of ownership and supervision by the line
ministry (the Ministry of Finance). In the first several years, strong ownership and supervision moved the
project forward. As the project neared its original closing date, however, Borrower ownership and
day-to-day supervision by the responsible line ministry abated as priorities shifted away from this project
and as institutional capacity to manage a rapidly expanding borrowing program was stretched to the limit.
This adversely affected project performance. Renewed ownership and close supervision by the Ministry of
Finance towards the end of the project was essential to putting this project back on track in the aftermath of
a number of problems related to financial management and failure to provide counterpart funds.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
COMMENTS FROM BORROWER AFTER REVIEW OF
DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(January 12, 2001)
Implementation of the Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project started according to the request of
the Government of Georgia. The main goal of the Project was an immediate assistance aiming
improvement of critical municipal services (healthcare, education, water supply, etc.). The project included
a series of small-scale investments in different geographical regions and sectors. At the same time, these
activities had to be implemented within a limited time period.
The project implementation started in 1995. The project was quite complex, because it included
investments not only in different cities, but in various sectors as well. In addition, implementation process
was complicated due to the beneficiaries' inexperience of working with the World Bank, overall instability
in the country, difficulties in the communication sector, including poor quality telephone lines and the lack
of courier services for reliable mail delivery.
Project reached its goals and its performance has been evaluated as satisfactory. In particular,
- primary and secondary weatherization of schools promoted the beginning of academic year on time,
and despite the bad weather conditions, the schools continued functioning even during the winter
period, which was very important from the point of view of restoring and preserving social stability;
- 15 -



- works carried out in healthcare sector significantly improved social conditions of the population and the
quality of medical service;
- rehabilitation works of water supply and solid waste management systems were carried out not only in
Tbilisi, but in Kutaisi, Tsavkisi and Tskneti as well.
Project covered improvements of sewerage system in Tbilisi, Batumi, Poti and Zugdidi.
Improvement of Public Transportation System, in particular, Metro had a big influence on social and
economic conditions of population. Because Metro was the only facility for passengers' transportation, it
played a vital role in preserving the stability.
Project's institutional development outcomes were also important. Project Implementation Unit staff was
trained within the framework of Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project and then continued
working in various World Bank projects on senior positions.
Quality of municipal services in municipalities participating in project implementation also improved.
PIU staff (Independent Agency for Development of Municipal Services established for the project
implementation) managed to solve such problems that could cause serious problems during the project
implementation process. Project implementation coincided with the period of civil unrest and disorder and
ethnic conflicts in Abkhazia and South Ossetia. As a result of the war in Chechnya major transport links
connecting Georgia with Russia was cut. These problems were especially critical during the early years of
project implementation.
Despite the progress achieved at the beginning and in the middle of the implementation process, there were
some problems in 1998. This is the period when the project was nearly completed and there were left only
three components, including the reconstruction of the Methodical Center building of the Ministry of
Education. The Ministry of Education was supposed to participate in financing these works and transfer to
the project account US$ 1.0 million.
Since the Georgian side could not transfer the whole amount on time, the closing date had to be extended.
In addition, reduction of counterpart funding from US$1.0 million to US$400,000, respectively lessened
scope of physical works and the building reconstruction works were not finished.
The Government of Georgia (the Ministry of Finance) was interested in implementation process and
quality, especially during the first three years of the project implementation. Later, during the period from
1997 through 1998, the Government of Georgia could not provide counterpart funding. However, in 1999
the Government of Georgia managed to provide counterpart funding for the reconstruction of the
Methodical Center building of the Ministry of Education and transferred US$400,000.
By the end of project implementation, better supervision from the Ministry of Finance resolved a number of
financial problems and provided counterpart funding.
- 16 -



Funds frozen at commercial bank "Aragvi Business Bank" had a negative effect on the project
implementation. In the beginning of the project, "Aragvi Business Bank" met the World Bank's
requirements. However, on the later stage, due to the financial difficulties, the bank could not finance
certain expenditures requested by the Project Implementation Unit. Situation worsened after the poor
auditing carried out at the Independent Agency for Development of Municipal Services in 1998, which
failed to detect the funds frozen at "Aragvi Business Bank".
Later, in May 1999, Independent Agency for Development of Municipal Services approached both the
National Bank and the Ministry of Finance for assistance. According to the World Bank's request, the
Ministry of Finance returned the funds frozen at "Aragvi Business Bank" to the credit account.
These circumstances had a negative effect on the project's fnal appraisal. However, the works carried out
under the project were so important, that despite the problems on the final stage, the World Bank's overall
estimation of the project was satisfactory.
The Ministry of Finance is satisfied with the outcomes of the project and highly estimates the assistance
provided during the period when the government did not have funds to finance the rehabilitation of
municipal infrastructure. The Ministry of Finance considers that the Municipal Infrastructure
Rehabilitation project was timely implemented.
The experience gained during the project implementation will be of great assistance for the borrower in
terms of realization of further projects. This will strengthen and promote the cooperation between the
Ministry of Finance and the World Bank.
(Signed by)
Koba Gvenetadze
Deputy Minister of Finance
- 17 -



BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(November 15, 2000)
The Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project was created on the grounds of the Development Credit
Agreement concluded on November 10, 1994, between the World Bank and the Government of Georgia.
The project became effective on January 19, 1995 (Credit No. 2658-GE).
The credit amount allocated by the World  12,5 million SDR (18 million USD)
Bank
Co-financing: USAID                     300,000 USD
Georgian counterpart contribution       2,27 million USD
Total by the Project                    20,57 million USD
The Borrower                            The Govenmment of Georgia, represented by the Ministry
of Finance
The Terms of Credit Repayment           35 years plus in case of necessity 10 years grace period
During 5% years, the Project is being implemented by the Independent Agency for the Development of
Municipal Services.
Country Background
Situated in the southem part of the Caucasus region, Georgia is a relatively small country with a
population of 5.4 million a ld a geographical area of 69,700 square kilometers. The Capital, Tbilisi, has a
population of 1,5 million, thus representing more than 25% of total population. Georgia was the first of the
non-Baltic states to declare independence from the Former Soviet Union on April 9, 1991. Formal contacts
between the World Bank and Georgia began in March 1992, and the country joined the World Bank in
August 1992. One year later, Georgia joined IDA.
Soon after its Independence, the Georgia became embroiled in political and civil strife. The consequence
have had a devastating effect on the nation's economy and its social stability, further compounding the
difficult transition to market orientation. Conflict in so called South Osetia, located in north central
Georgia, resulted in numerous casualties and refugees. However, since 1992 the situation in the region has
stabilized. A separatist war in Abkhazia continued throughout 1992-1993, resulting in an estimated
300,000 refugees migrating to other parts of Georgia including Tbilisi and the coastal cities of Poti and
Batumi.
- 18 -



In combination with an economy under severe transitional stress, Georgia's three civil conflicts had
worsened the socio-economic plight of the country. The serious deterioration of basic infrastructural and
municipal services was adversely affecting the economy, and in turn, was causing widespread
environmental degradation. Public health was jeopardized by unpotable water supplies, untreated sewage
and unmanaged dumps and landfills. Refugees of war had migrated to the capital and other key cities such
as Poti, Zugdidi and Batumi, adding to the existing strain on housing and dysfunctional municipal services.
By 1993, Georgia's economic decline had placed the majority of the Georgian population under the official
poverty line. The standard of living for the majority has plummeted over the past four years, particularly
for more marginalized and vulnerable groups who suffer most as the system of social protection collapses.
Meanwhile, there had been a crisis in public confidence, and related erosion in social order and discipline.
Only relatively recently, since the intensity of armed conflicts abated in late 1993, has the Government been
able to refocus its attention on the task of maintaining law and order, and rebuilding the economy.
Essential to this broad based was the need first to arrest further deterioration and possible collapse of basic
infrastructure and municipal services, and, second, to begin to rehabilitate infrastructure and services
deemed essential to public health, safety and welfare.
Starting from 1994, up to 2000 the political situation in the country became significantly stable. President
and parliament elections were held two times. These elections were evaluated by the foreign observers and
democratic ones. The stabilization may be also proved by the fact that the amount of foreign investments
increases each year. Nowadays 17 only World Bank-financed projects are currently being implemented in
Georgia, to say nothing of projects and programs financed by EBRD, USAID, UBIC and other large
international organizations.
Georgia became the member of European Council and other intemational organizations. Several oil-pipe
line projects are being implemented. Notwithstanding the aforementioned still the heaviest problems are the
return of refugees from Abkhazia and South Osetia to their homeplaces and social problems.
Important steps were made in the fields of finances and economics. At the starting date of the Project the
monetary unit of Georgia was "Coupon", with the exchange rate of 6 coupons per 1 USD. In October
1995, when this unit was abolished, the rate was at high as 1,300,000 coupons per 1 USD. Such
devaluation rate was unusually high for such a small period. In order to correct the situation with the
currency, the government of Georgia, based on the recommendations of IME and World Bank, has
introduced a new national currency - Georgian Lari. This currency appears to be quite stable - with the
change of rate from 1,3 GEL per 1 USD in 1995, up to 2,0 GEL per 1 USD in 2000. The national budget
of Georgia in "Lari period" was, and still is, drawn up on the grounds of recommendations of IMF. This
budget reflects the actual figures of incomes and expenditures, unlike the budget drawn up during the
"Coupon period". Large projects are being implemented in the fields of oil pipelines, public health, power
and energy, transport, etc.
The Development of the Municipal Infrastructure
The Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (MIRP) was the first World Bank investment project in
Georgia. The work on the Project started in 1994 by the experts both from the World Bank and from
Georgia. MIRP provided for the development of the municipal infrastructure in Tbilisi, Batumi, Poti and
other municipalities. The development of the municipal infrastructure was considered as a priority by the
Goveru-nent of Georgia and the World Bank. This is also proved by the fact that nowadays another
municipal project - "Municipal Development and Decentralization Project" is being implemented in
Georgia.
- 19 -



MIRP has significantly improved the state of municipal services, being at the critical point in 1994. If not
this project, one may say that the work of Tbilisi Metro in 1994-1996 would have stopped, and this is even
more important, provided that at this period the Metro was an only urban transport mean, used by the
majority of the city population. One of the priorities was the weatherization and installation of heating
systems in Tbilisi schools and hospitals, since in previous years the studies in Tbilisi schools were stopped
in winter because of cold. The works that the project provided for Kutaisi have significantly improved the
supply of potable water t the population.
One more important field of investment, both economically and ecologically, was water supply and sewage
and sanitation projects in Tbilisi, Batumi, Poti and Zugdidi municipalities. The improvement of sewage
systems in cities situated in the Black Sea Coastal Zone was extremely important, in order to prevent the
pollution of the Black Sea. This problem was important not only for Georgia but also for all Black Sea
Coast countries.
The Implementation of the Proiect
The Independent Agency for the Development of Municipal Services was created on purpose of
implementing MIRP. The Agency is a non-governmental and non-profitable organization, working on the
basis of the DCA, World Bank Regulations and its own Carter. The Agency had a close collaboration with
the World Bank and acted on the grounds of the procedures of the World Bank. Since the beginning of the
project, once in three months a supervisory mission visited Georgia. These missions controlled Agency's
work and were giving necessary recommendations. The initial tenn of the project was three years, but due
to certain reasons, it was extended several times for a total period of 2V2 years.
During the years of its implementation the project was three times discussed on the meeting of Investment
Council of Georgia, the head of which is the President of Georgia.
Breakdown of Proiect by Beneficiary Municipalities and the Description of the Results Achieved
Tbilisi I
The Georgia's difficult political and economical situation during 1989-1992 accounts for many problems in
municipal enterprises and municipal services. Due to the lack of funds the municipal enterprises were not
provided by material support.
Especially, the water supply, transportation and cleaning systems were in critical situation.
The school and hospital's primary weatherization (glazing) was absolutely necessary for carrying out the
normal education process in schools and guaranteeing medical services. There was a problem in providing
of power supply for health departments as well.
The aim of credit was to carry out the project, which includes improving of current situation by financing
appropriate municipal structures.
In connection with this, the worst situation in some services, was the reason to consider them as a priority
field for financing.
- 20 -



Tbilisi Weatherization
The primary weatherization was performed in 204 schools and 24 public health institutions. The works
included the doors' and windows' glazing, with the further, repairing and insulating of roofs. These works
ensured the maintaining of warmth in schools and hospitals. The hydroinsulation repairing works were also
carried out in 112 schools and 15 hospitals.
Besides, Italy-made boilers working on the liquid fuel were delivered and installed in 46 schools and 10
public health institutions. 3 schools were provided with similar boilers for further installation. Aforesaid
boilers still function, providing the sits with necessary heating in winter seasons.
Alongwith, were installed the diesel generators for 9 public health institutions (especially for maternity
hospitals) for providing a direct electrical feed.
The aforesaid weatherization component was considered important due to that since 1990 the learning
process in wintertime was virtually stopped because of cold. Also the patients being treated in Tbilisi
hospitals were in heady conditions due to the same reason.
As a result of works provided for the Project the learning process was renewed in 204 schools and
approximately 95000 children were able to continue studies. This fact had an extremely high economical
and social importance.
Also high economical and social importance had the performance of weatherization works, roof repairing
works and installation of autonomous heating and energy generating systems in Tbilisi medical institutions
(especially in maternity hospitals). As a result of these works the medical institutions gained the possibility
to work uninterruptedly during winter period, receiving and rendering services to thousands of patients.
Tbilisi Metro
Damages of Tbilisi urban transport during the 1991-95 period were the reason, why the metro was the only
facility for passengers' transportation. At that time, because of low tariff, Tbilisi metro had not enough
material-technical basis for providing its normal function that was caused by the law tariff rates. Hence,
financing of Tbilisi Metro was very important for the city especially in such a critical period.
We have started the installation of Power Supply Telemanagement System, which will be completed within
the framework of "Municipal Development and Decentralization Project".
The installation of automatic fare collection system allowed Metro to abolish so called service passways
and created a possibility to use one unified paying document, thus increasing the income.
The carrying out of the works provided for by this Project, has virtually saved the Metro from stopping.
Urban Transport System - Thiltrans
At that time the Tbilisi transport fleet mainly consisted of "Ikarus" buses and "Skoda" trolleys. The
condition of this fleet was awful.
-21 -



The equipment and machinery delivered to Thiltrans by the Agency allowed the Company to render bus and
trolley transportation services to Tbilisi population that increased Company income. The income was being
afterwards used for the rehabilitation of bus and trolley fleets.
Water supply
This sum was spent on procuring for "Tbilisi Water Utilities" of a large number of pumps needed for its
normal working. Were purchased short-wave radio-communication system and a large number of
accumulators, the various types of tires for "Tbilisi Water Utilities" autopark that improved the operation
of water utilities. Were purchased a number of steel water pipes, pumps of different types, means of
transportation, and machinery of different purposes.
Tbilisi-Tsavkisi pump station was built, providing the water to Tskhneti village population. Before the
construction of this station the water to the named village was provided once a week whereas after the
construction - once each two days. These investments helped "Tbilisi Water Utilities" improve the water
supply for Tbilisi population. The improvement of services increased the fare collection from the
population. The income was used for the rehabilitation of Tbilisi water utility.
Tbilisi sewage
This investment included works for rehabilitation of system, being than in a heavy condition. Namely the
sewage network of two Tbilisi streets was completely replaced. Different fecal pipes and sewage cleaning
machine were procured, and Tbilisi wastewater treatment system was rehabilitated.
The named component also included the rehabilitation works of Gardabani regional treatment facility, that
was also given pumps and pipes of different types. The environmental important of this component is very
high.
Tbilisi Landfill
In 1995 for Tbilisi Sanitation Department were purchased 14 dustcarts, that were commissioned the same
year and are still operating, removing the municipal waste from different districts of Tbilisi. Also were
purchased 4 cleaning vehicles, still being in operation.
The Agency also procured for Tbilisi Sanitation Department accumulators, spare parts. This allowed the
rehabilitation of a number of special vehicles, that in its turn improved the sanitation conditions in Tbilisi.
Tbilisi II
At the expense of Project savings and upon the agreement with the World Bank the Agency had held an
international bidding on procurement of ambulances for Tbilisi Ambulance Department. On the basis of
this bidding 15 Korean ambulances "Hyundai" were purchased and delivered to the named Department.
Notwithstanding the fact that at present there are created several private Ambulance Services, the
Ambulance Department equipped with the ambulances procured by the Agency is still functioning.
The named component also included the Rehabilitation Works of Educational Methodical Center of The
Ministry of Education. These works are completed within the limits of the Contract.
- 22 -



2. Batumi
According to the Agreement that was concluded between the Government of Georgia and the International
development Association on November 10, 1994, the sum allocated for Batumi was equal to 2,247,000
USD. The named sum was intended for the Rehabilitation of the Municipal Infrastructure of Batumi.
The sum allocated for Batumi was mainly utilized for the solution of first priority problems, existing in the
city water supply and waste water sector, difficulties in city sanitation, construction of Batumi landfill
retainment wall, and other problems.
Since the city landfill was eroded by the Chorokhi river, a serious problem related to Black Sea pollution
had arisen and Batumi faced a significant environmental problem. Therefore the construction of Batumi
landfill retainment wall became one of the main priorities for the municipality.
The Agency was able to implement these important projects, that appeared possible due to correct
distribution of funds, choice of suppliers and contractors, high quality technical and economical
supervision.
The short-wave communication equipment was purchased for the Water Supply Department that was of a
great assistance for the efficient management of water distribution system.
Batumi Municipality was given 25 km of asbest cementum pipes of different diameter, on purpose of
reconstruction of wastewater pipeline network. Waste Water Department was given 14 drainage pump
stations' rehabilitation. Two KO152 waste water system cleaning vehicles, excavator and different
equipment was purchased. As a result of our request, the World Bank kindly agreed to finance the contract
for the supply of bitumen that was needed for asphalting the roads after completing waste water system
rehabilitation works. Your Agency helped us in prompt supply of 1000 t of bitumen that allowed us to
carry out the repairing works, connected with the reconstruction of city pavement.
Batumi Sanitation Department received 1O K0413 solid waste disposal vehicles, three sweeping vehicles,
one irrigating machine and a bulldozer. This had a significant impact on the solution of City sanitation
problems. As to the construction of Batumi landfill retainment wall, that is still being carried out, the part
of the wall with the length of 145m, that was under the responsibility of your Agency, is completed, and the
remaining part of the work is being carried out under the supervision of Municipal Development and
Decentralization Project.
Not only did the works performed significantly improve the condition of Batumi Waste Water Network and
facilitate the everyday life of different municipal services, but also solved the main environmental problem,
that was caused by the pollution of Black Sea Coastal Zone.
3. Poti
According to the Agreement that was concluded between the Government of Georgia and the International
Development Association on November 10, 1994 and provided for the Rehabilitation of the Municipal
Infrastructure of Georgian cities.
Under the Agreement were also rehabilitated such services as sewerage, sanitation, waste treatment, and
were purchased machinery and necessary equipment.
- 23 -



Due to the lack of the garbage removal fleet, it was impossible to completely dispose of solid waste from
Poti streets. In its turn, this created insanitation. Poti sewerage system was also in a sorry plight, and
often was out of order, due to the low quality of equipment and instability in electricity supply. Sewage
inundated streets and flowed into rivers that caused Black Sea pollution. Hence the rehabilitation of waste
treatment and sewer systems of the city bore together with mere practical also important ecological
meaning.
Based on aforementioned the renovation of the waste disposal fleet and the rehabilitation of the sewerage
system and pump stations were considered a main priority. On the grounds of our specification your
Agency has in shortest period signed all the necessary contracts, that was of a significant assistance in the
start of the project implementation.
Rehabilitation works were carried out on four main pump stations. On this purpose 52 pumps of different
types were procured. The Agency has also purchased well pumps for the Poti water supply, implemented
from Senaki as well as aluminum wires, required for the stable power supply for the above well pumps.
The aforementioned has significantly improved the work of Poti water supply system. The communication
system was installed.
The works that had been carried out with high quality and in full volume significantly improved the
sanitary conditions of Poti and the solid waste removal from the city was put in order. As a result of the
project the work of Poti sewerage system was considerably enhanced, and the Black Sea pollution problem
was partially solved.
We would also like to add that the proposed method of the implementation of the referred project, when
existed an independent structure, that managed financial assets, chose suppliers and contractors, carried out
technical and financial supervision, was very appropriate. This had essentially facilitated the
implementation of the project.
4. Other Municipalities
The Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project provided for the other municipalities a reserve amount
of 2 million USD. This sum was used in the benefit of major cities of Georgia.
The proceeds were spent for the equipment and materials needed for the rehabilitation of Kutaisi water
utilities. Were purchased: steel and asbest cementum pipes; aluminum cables for power supply; 62 well
pumps; power transformers; miscellaneous equipment, etc. Also a diesel generator was purchased for
Kutaisi regional children's hospital.
In Telavi the primary weatherization works were performed for 2 schools and a matemity house;
In Senaki weatherization works were performed for 10 schools;
In Chiatura weatherization works were performned for a hospital;
In Zugdidi weatherization works were performed for 2 hospitals, was performed a rehabilitation of a
refinery facility, metal bins were manufactured for solid waste and a garbage truck was purchased.
-24 -



Institutional Development
In order to inform the society on the implementation of the Project. The Agency has signed the contract
with the "Public Relation Center". With the assistance of the latter the information about the project was
periodically published in the press and broadcasts via TV. The broadcasts included the interviews both
with Agency employees and heads of beneficiary municipalities and also representatives of conformable
bodies and services.
In order to facilitate the implementation of the project and to improve the bookkeeping system, the French
company "Amyot" installed the computerized accounting program, based on international standards. The
audit of the project was being carried out once per semester, by the Audit Company "Bega". Its last audit
covered the 2nd semester of 1998. The audit of year 1999 and the complete audit for the period 1994-2000
was carried out by the company "Arthur Anderson", that was awarded this contract as the winner of the
tender held by the demand of the World Bank.
Problems
As a result of several problems arisen during the project implementation, the project had to be prolonged.
In particular, according to the initial agreement with the World Bank, the contribution of the Ministry of
the Education of Georgia for the rehabilitation works of the Educational Methodical Centre of the Ministry
of Education was US$1.0 million. Since the necessary amounts were not transferred on time to the
Agency's account by the Georgian side, certain delays were caused during the construction process. As a
result of lack of necessary proceeds, the Georgian side had to reduce its contribution to US$0.4 million and
respectively reduce the amount of works.
Since the beginning of the Project the Agency had opened a current account with a commercial bank -
"Aragvi Business Bank". The proceeds in amount of US$195.6 thousand and 136.8 thousand GEL that
were frozen in the above bank were later transferred by the Ministry of Finance of Georgia to the World
Bank's account according to the request of the later (US$264.0 thousand).
Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report was discussed on the Board of
Investment Council of Georgia, headed by the President of Georgia.
The Government of Georgia expresses its gratitude to the World Bank for its continuous cooperation,
expertise and efforts towards the further growth and development of our country.
(Signed by)
Koba Gvenetadze
Deputy Minister of Finance
-25 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
Bridge Loan from the Soros Foundation ($500,000) - repaid after effectiveness.
Cooperation with USAID on hospital heating rehabilitation. The USAID contractors were
Burns and Roe who provided the following comments:
During 1994 discussions between the World Bank and USAID with input from Bums & Roe resulted in a
decision that USAID would provide funds for the implementation of heating system improvements at
selected hospitals in Tbilisi, Georgia. This work would help start the work, which was to be part of a larger
World Bank Municipal Loan. The hospitals would be selected from a list of the 200 Priority Hospitals and
Schools, which had been developed by the World Bank. This initial heating system work on the steam
boilers and systems was implemented in 1995. In 1996 additional funds and work was done to provide gas
fired water heater and install gas meters.
The five hospitals heating systems rehabilitated were as follows:
E     Tbilisi Burn Center
a     Tbilisi Oncological Center
-     Maternity Hospital No 4
a     Maternity Hospital No 5
m     Municipal Mental Hospital
The total funds provided by USAID for these projects were $360,000. These funds provided for the
engineering, procurement, construction, inspections and startup testing necessary to implement this work.
In general, the scope of work for the five hospitals included the following:
Performed assessment to define the equipment and system needs.
3     Repaired the boilerhouse, which included repairs to the roof, walls and flooring, and provided for
the cleanup and painting of the building.
-=3    Provided for the demolition of the existing boilers, piping tanks electrical system and other
unneeded equipment.
a     Installation of new boilers with their auxiliary equipment and systems.
a     Provided rehabilitation of the electrical system and provided some automatic switching capability.
e     Performed the hydraulic testing and acceptance of the boiler installation.
Performed inspection during the installation and after of the installation was complete and
witnessed system testing.
Turn-Over of system to hospital maintenance.
One unique feature, which is worthy of special note, was the use of solar water heating system designed to
provide 40% of the hot water needed annually for the Burn Center. All of this work was contracted by
competitive bidding. The work was split between four bidders. All of the work was turned-over to the
hospitals in good working order and meeting all the tender document requirements and necessary code
requirements.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
- 26 -



10. Additional Information
-27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:                                              _  _
* No indicators proposed.
Output Indicators:'
CI -      ,-I- ,       ,-, $M     - ,,'-             Ww -, -, "     _     a |X-  1, M. a?,'f VI   -e l 
1. Contract amounts signed with foreign and 80%                              98.5%
local enterprises (% of total project amount)
2. Number of contracts completed (% of    80%                                99.3%
estimated total number of contracts in the
projects)
3. Percentage of project completed on Ume  70%                               79.5%
(% of total amount)
4. Percentage of contract completed on  75%                                   82.7%
budget (% of total amount)
5. Percentage of payments to suppliers  70%                                  70%*
within 30 days of invoice reception (% of total
amount)
6. Average time for processing local   6 weeks                                6.5 weeks
contracts (staffweeks)
End of project
** This is an estimate.
-28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
_________w,SH%^ss ..,.  .. n     of
Rehabilitation  ~ ~ ~    mUIIQa    Estimate       Ap~~praisal
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Component:
- Tbilisi Investment Program                        10.45          12.90           126
- Batumi Investment Program                          2.13           2.48           116
- Poti Investment Program                            0.95           1.12           117
- Additional Municipalities Investment               1.80            1.37           76
Institutional Development Component                  1.95           2.35           107
Total Baseline Cost                                 17.28          20.22
Physical Contingencies                              2.41           0.00
Total Project Costs        |   19.69           20.22
Total Financing Required             19.69          20.22
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
7                      * itL.N.B.F..   Total Cost
1. Works                     2.60         2.30         0.00          0.00        4.90
.__________________ _ . .(2.40)         (2.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (4.40)
2. Goods                     5.40         0.00          7.80         0.30        13.50
=_______________________  (5.00)       (000)       -(7.40)       (0.00)      (12.40)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          1.30         0.00         1.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.20)       (0.00)       (1.20)
Total                     8.00          2.30         9.10         0.30         19.70
(7.40)       (2.00)       (8.60)       (0.00)      (18.00)
-29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Proc rrit, Meto
_         _~~~_____   j=~~~&~rtI~s
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -__ _ l~ k l _ _ _ _ _ _   O t e r .   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
1. Works                         0.98            6.08           0.08           0.36           7.50
(0.66)         (4.84)         (0.08)         (0.00)         (5.58)
2. Goods                          1.63           0.37           8.37           0.00          10.37
(1.63)         (0.30)         (8.02)         (0.00)         (9.95)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           2.35           0.00           2.35
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.14)         (0.00)         (2.14)
Total                         2.61            6.45           10.80          0.36          20.22
(2.29)         (5.14)         (10.24)        (0.00)        (17.67)
t Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units. In addition, the costs for customs,
bank charges, transportation, etc., a total of USD268,213, which were not applicable to each contract, are included in
the table under Services "Other".
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O ._                             k 
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Component:
- Tbilisi Investment                                      11.04      1.50      0.36
Program
- Batumi Investment                                       2.32       0.16      0.00
Program
- Poti Investment                                         1.04       0.07      0.00
Program
- Additional Municipalities                               1.13       0.25      0.00
Investment
Institutional Development                                 2.14       0.21      0.00
Program
Total***                  18.00      1.40      0.30       17.67      2.19      0.36     98.2   156.4  120.0
* Component financing was not included in the Staff Appraisal Report.
** Soros provided a bridge loan of US$500,000 which was repaid in full by project effectiveness.
-30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was not carried out at appraisal due to the many distortions and uncertainties in the
Georgian economy (see para. 4.3).
This project was appraised as an emergency project thus no rates of financial return were projected and
comparisons with projected rates of return cannot be made (see para. 4.4).
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               PerformanceAafng|
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1994                     1   Division Chief
August 1994                  21    1 Division Chief, . Sr. Urban
Specialist, I Sr. Municipal
Finance Spec., I Economist,
I Environmental Scientist, I
Environmental Sociologist,
I Operations Assistant, I
Procurement Specialist, I Sr.
Highway Engineer, I Municipal
Engin. Consultant, I Transport
Engin. Consultant, I Pub.
Health Engin. Consultant, I
Sanitary Engin. Consultant, I
Water Engin. Consultant, I
Energy Engin. Consultant, I
Mechanical Eng. Consultant, I
Heating Engin. Consultant, I
Hydrological Consultant, I
Electrical Engin. Consultant, I
Coastal Ecological Consultant, I
Coastal Zome Man. Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
Sept. 1994                    7    1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I Sr.
Municipal Finance Spec., I
Economist, I Environmental
Sociologist, 2 Operations
Assistants, I Mun.
Engineer/Consultant
Supervision
November 1994                  4   1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I            S                 S
Operations Assistant, I
Social Ecologist, I Research
Assistant
April 1995                     5  I Sr. Urban Specialist, I             S                 S
Procurement Specialist, I Social
Ecologist, I Research Assistant,
I Operations Assistant
December 1995                  4  1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I             S                 S
Operations Assistant, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Municipal Engineer
- 32 -



June 1996                        3   1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I              S                  S
Procurement Specialist, I
Operations Assistant
July 1996                        1  Water Specialist
October 1996                    2   1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I Social        S                  S
Ecologist
February 1997                   4   1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I Social
(Limited Mission)                   Ecologist, I Operations
Assistant, I Project Officer
October 1997                    3   1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I               S                  S
Architect/Technical Spec., I
Financial Management Officer
February 1998                    6   1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I              S                  S
Financial Management Officer, I
Water Engineer, I Operations
Assistant, I Institutional Spec.
Financial Consultant
July 1998                       3   1 Sr. Urban Specialist, I Urban         S                  S
Specialist, I Financial
Management Officer
November 1998                    4   1 Urban Specialist, I                  S                  S
Architect/Technical Spec., I
Financial Management Officer, I
Operations Assistant
April 1999                      3   1 Urban Specialist, I                   S                  S
Procurement Specialist, I Project
Officer
November 1999                   4   1 Urban Specialist, I Project           U                  S
Officer, I Finan. Man.
Consultant, I Operations
Assistant
February 2000                    1  Urban Specialist
(Limited Mission)
March 2000                      5   2 Urban Specialists, I                  U                  S
Infrastructure Specialist, I
Architect, I Finan. Man.
Consultant
June 2000                       3   1 Infrastructure Specialist, I          S                  S
Finan. Man. Consultant, I Urban
Specialist
ICR
- 33 -



(b) Staff
I     Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ _ _ ODD)__
Identification/Preparation                 45.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                      31.4
Supervision                               234.2
ICR                            __I
Total                         .
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OlI Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
M Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Financial                              OH OSUOM *N ONA
0 Institutional Development              O H  O SU 0 M  O N  0 NA
O Envirohmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
DGender                           O H OSUOM O N *NA
LI Other (Please specify)         OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
L Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3 Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Fl Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
3 Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  *U  OHU
N Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
3 Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S   * U  0 HU
 Implementation agencyperformance                  O HS O S   * U  0 HU
 Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Republic of Georgia Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project - Staff Appraisal Report dated
October 17, 1994
2. Republic of Georgia Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project - Supervision Mission Aide
Memoires and PSRs dated: June 17, 1995; August 20, 1994; October 5, 1994; December 21, 1994;
May 11, 1995; January 24, 1996; January 29, 1996; August 14, 1996; January 9, 1997; February 27,
1997; December 3, 1997; March 30, 1998; July 24, 1998; December 22, 1998; May 20, 1999;
December 28, 1999; April 27, 2000; July 28, 2000.
- 37 -



- 38 -



