Environ   ental                       rF ;<X     .
Assessment/A nalysis
Reports                                     __,__
K                                                       Report E0066
Georgia -
a4 Infastructure,
EA Category BPrjc                             I
Ji,.
EnvironmentalI
1     ~Assessment
March 1995                                                     i
ThisyrAport has been prepared,by; t4ei)VB1d Bank 
.                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W



-29 -
3.50 In order to strengthen the Borrower's operational plan, the municipalities will need to pay
more attention to maintenance planning and scheduling, particularly to ensure that all new
electrical and mechanical equipment will be properly maintained. This will require attention to
the manufacturers' maintenance recommendations, setting aside required funds, and preparing
naintenance programs and plans for each equipment item. In recent years, the operational
personnel have only been maintaining old and used equipment.
3.51 With respect to the solid waste disposal sites (land fills and unofficial dumps) in Banimi,
Poti, and Tbilisi, new organizational and procedural arrangements will need to be established
for effective operation. For the urban tansport sector in Tbilisi, rationalization of the operation
was recommended by the mission-as a parallel activity within the municipality in order to ensure
overall cost efficieacy of the service delivery in the future.
2.   Borrower's Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
3.52  The Borrower's Project Implementation Plan will include arrangements for the timely
provision of all necessary input, adequate staffing of the Agency, training, implementation of
adequate fnancial management procedures, specification of the monitoring and evaluation system
to be applied, and implementation of other operational procedures required for effective project
execution. The PIP was formalized under the Project Management Agreement (PMA) which
will be signed between the Government of Georgia and the Agency. A project implementation
schedule was prepared during project appraisal (See Annex 11). Dissemination of information
regarding the project has been initiated and the tentative performance indicators by which the
;        project will be monitored and evaluated have been defined during appraisal (see para 5.2h for
Agreements and Recommendations).
3.53  In addition to the PMA, the Borrower will prepare a Manual of Procedures (MOP) for
the project implementation activities containing more detailed guidelines to the Agency and other
organizations involved in implementing the agreements reached with the government (see para
5.2i of Agreements and Recommendations).
3.    Supervision Plan
3.54 As this is the first Bank-supported investment credit to Georgia, and given the particular
implementation arrangements, the project is expected to require a significant supervision effort,
particularly during the first year when a large portion of the procurement will be undertaken.
Therefore, it is planned that about 40 staff weeks of effort for tde first year and about 20 staff
weeks in each of the following two years would be required for supervision. A detailed
supervision plan was discussed during project appraisal and negotiations, and is attached as
Annex 10 (See para 5.2h of Agreements and Recommendations).
4.    Environmental Review
3.55 No new construction or development is planned under the project. There will be no
primary negative environmental or socio-economic impacts. The project has been placed m the
environmental screening category "B," as consistent with the provisions of Bank Operational



-30-
Directive 4.01 "Environmental Assessment". The project will be environmentally beneficial to
the communities and sectors targeted for financial assistance by: (a) reducing the degradation of
municipal infrastructure systems; (b) maintaining a minimal level of operational service; (c)
helping arrest declining socio-economic and environmental conditions; and (d) providing a
critical contnbution to reducing the health risks from infectious diseases.
3.56  The primary benefits include: (a) curtailing the threat of infectious diseases to public
health by reducing the amount of raw sewage flow through the city streets in Batumi, Poti, and
Tbilisi; (b) introducing a more effective system of waste collection and disposal and land fill
management in Batumi, Poti and Tbilisi; (c) restoring and maintaining potable water supplies
in Tbilisi and Batami; (d) providing heating and weatherization in schools and hospitals in
Tbilisi; (e) operationalizing the urban transport system; and (f) initiating a wider action program
for improved management of Georgia's coastal resources. Annex 12 provides a more detailed
account of the environmental review and proposed mitigation plan.                      f
S.    PublicEnvironmentalAw-reness, Non-govermnentalOrganizations, and Community
Participation
3.57  Historically, a certain level of puablic awareness about the enviromnent and appreciation
for nature has existed in Georgia. It in, probable that while this awareness still exists, wide-
spread support for enviromnental prograams has temporarily subsided due to more pressing  I
economic and political concerns.
3.58 Nonetheless, an environmental NGO movement is gaining recognition and proliferating
into more specialized groups, stemming mainly from the political parry of the Georgia Greens.
The Green Party, which played an active role in the Independence movement, has since gained
greater representation in the Parliament, despite the nation's current focus on short-term,
economic survival needs. President Shevarnadze's new parry, the Citizen's Union, has
incorporated many Green members with the objective of emphasizing environmental issues,
including the urgency of the ecological situation on the Black Sea coast.
3.59 Current institutional relationships between government and non-governmental
organizations, while new, seem cooperative. If properly encouraged, potential exists for
collaboration between public and private sectors. Yet, the idea of "community-based" resource
management, in which local resource users participate in planning and management decisions
about their rights to, and responsibilities for, resource use, remains alien-both to communities
themselves and to government institutions. Excluding the Orthodox church, there are very few
indigenous cultural community institutions on which to build. While the concept of local
participation is familiar to NGOs, mechanisms for achieving coordination between users and
government agencies, and encouraging community decision-making and field action, are not well
tested. Meanwhile, small-scale, traditional resource users on the coast, such as fishermen,
wood-cutters, and farmers comprise an important group which needs to be understood in terms
of their own concerns regarding the natral resource base, its use, and overexploitation. Efforts
will be made in the Coastal Zone Management program to reach these groups.



-31 -
6.    Economic Analysis
3.60  One of the project's main objectives is to support the Government's economic
stabilization efforts by helping to increase the productivity of the urbar population in three key
cities. This will be achieved through the provision of spare parts and -.: uipment urgently needed
to arrest an aggravated deterioration of basic infrastructure services (i.e., urban transport,
heating, water supply and sewerage) and to lay the foundation for future improvement of the
j          management and delivery of such services. Without this intervention, labor mobility and the
productivity of urban populations will continue to decline, thus jeopardizing the national
economic stabilization. It is not very meaningful to attempt to quantify precisely the aggregate
impact of the proposed project, given the many distortions and uncertainties in the Georgian
economy. However, an analysis has been made on individual project subcomponents which
indicates that in all cases, given the rapid deterioration of key municipal services and their
crucial role in national economic stabilization and future growth, the benefits are substantial,
clearly outweighing costs. This is normally the case in rehabilitation interventions of this kind.
In addition, individual subcomponents taken together help lay the foundation for greater future
benefit to the economy by instituting or setting in motion processes that aim to improve overall
management and delivery of essential municipal services. Annex 12 provides details on the
qualitative analysis, which may be summarized as follows:
-    Tbilisi Schools and Hospitals.  Ininediate and short-terrn assistance for
weatherization and heating, costing an estimated US$4.1 million, will: (a)
increase public access to education and health care facilities; (b) reduce energy
requirements to some extent; (c) enable pupils to attend school longer this year
and in the future than in the past two years (when total school days were reduced
due to winter closings) through improved facilities; (d) ensure a more continuous
educational process for students by reducing the .vinter break from 12 weeks
taken last year-which proved disruptive for the students-to approximately 5
weeks; (e) ensure continued health care services and greater access to 23 hospitals
in the city during the winter; (f) increase the efficiency and utilization of hospital
space through a migration of patients fromr hospitals which will not be
weatherized (and are planned to close because of underutilization) to those 23 that
are rehabilitated; (g) reduce the patient overload at ambulatory care clinics which
have been burdened in the past winters by patients who are understandably
unwilling to tolerate poor hospital conditions.
*   Tbilisi Urban Transport.  Immediate and short-term assistance through the
project, costing an estimated US$4.1 million, will help: (a) increase labor
mobility and thus support economic activiiy in the capital, (b) increase frequency
of trips resulting in increased access and reduced waiting time; and (c) increase
passenger safety and mitigate or stop the rate of equipment deterioration.
*  Water Supply in Tbilisi. Batumi: Project investments totaling US$2.04 million,
will help: (a) inprove environmental quality and reduce exposure to water-related
disease; (b) maintain or improve the quality of drinkdng water; and (c) maintain
existing access to water supply services.



-32 -
*  Wastewater Treatment in Tbilisi. Batumi and Poti: Project investments totaling
US$2.26 million, will: (a) reduce the serious hazard to the public and help
alleviate environmental degradation; (b) increase access to sewerage services; and
(c) increase operational efficiency by reducing electricity requirements for
pumping stations and reducing somewhat the overall manpower requirements.
*  Solid Waste Management in Tbilisi. Batumi and Poti: Project investments
totalling US$1.02 million will help: (a) reduce enviromnental pollution and public
exposure to health hazards; (b) reduce probability of accidents at garbage landfill
sites; and (c) increase operational efficiencies by increasing productivity of
manpower and hours of access to needed equipment.
7.      Social Analysis
3.61    No detailed social assessment was undertaken as part of project preparation or
appraisal. However, some salient social features may be highlighted. More than 25% of the
population, or 1.5 million, reside in the capital city of Tbilisi; three of the other major cities,
Batumi, Poti and Sukhumi, are ports on the Black Sea. The Black Sea coastal watershed covers
40% of the country geographicaIly and contains almost 40% of its population.
3.62    Until recently, standards of living in Georgia have been relatively high.  A long
tradition of close family ties and communal barter exchanges, combined with an historically
robust agncultural economy and a large informal or underground economy, have helped maintain
both cultural integrity and socioeconomic security. At the same time, Georgia has until recently
enjoyed a comprehensive system of social welfare, including free health care, consumer
subsidies such as bread and electricity funded from the state budget, and other welfare benefit
programs (i.e., pensions, disability, maternity, child care allowances). Health standards and life
expectancy have also been comparatively high, although substandard technologies have prevailed
throughout FSU countries. Historically, Georgian society has been acculturated to place high
values on education. By the 1980s, the Georgian population was considered among the best
educated in the USSR.
3.63    Now, in the midst of a social and economic breakdown that is considered more
extreme than any other forner Soviet republic, living standards in all socioeconomic classes have
dropped precipitously since the late 1980s. Georgia's strong economic dependency on Russia,
especially in the vital energy sector and other supplies, has made it particularly vulnerable to the
contraction of the Russian economy. Lay-offs, hyperinflation, and chronic shortages of basic
commodities such as bread have eroded livelihoods. Although precise statistical data are not
available, it is now believed that 90 percent of the population currently lives below the poverty
line. Health standards are declining in certain key areas, including a rise in infant and maternal
mortality rates.
8.      Poverty Alleviation
3.64    The proposed project will, by stemming the further deteroration of key municipal
services such as heating in hospitals, waste water treatment and landfill systems, and potable



- 33 -
water supplies, help alleviate poverty to some extent, particularly the most vmlnerable social
groups. It is the more vulnerable groups, such as the sick, the poor, and refugees of war who
suffer disproportionately when basic services breakdown and the enviromnent degrades. In
Batuni, the clogged septic tanks overflow in neighborhoods of war refugees, while those most
directly exposed to the mismanaged and fast eroding landfill are impoverished grazers, garbage
scavengers, and those in the area who depend on subsistence fishing and local river drinking
water in order to survive. In Tbilisi, ensuring a minimal level of heat during the winter to
hospital patients and school children, and upgrading potable water supplies and other urban
infrstructure, contrbute to the health and the welfare of marginalized groups, as well as the
general population. Rehabilitation of essential municipal services, and the direct linkage to
environmental resource amelioration, is fundamental in the longer tern strategy of poverty
alleviation.



- 77 _
Annex 12
Page 1 of l l
Georgia
Municipal Services Rehabilitation Project
Environmental Review and Mitigation Plan
I.    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.0   The ervironmental review and mitigation plan is prepared in accordance with
Operational Directive 4.01 for a Category B classification. This Project will entail no new
construction or development. There will be no primary environmental and socio-economic
.negative impacts. In a few investments there are minor secondary impacts. In general, the
investments will have positive primary and secondary impacts in reducing public health risks.
Current investment efforts will contribute to some improvements in the natral resource base.
Mitigation and monitoring efforts, outlined in Table 1, are proposed during the
iinplementation and operaTion of the proposed investment activities.
2.0   At a minimum, the investment Project will: (i) reduce thfe degradation of municipal
infrastructure systems; (ii) maintain a minimal level of operational integrity; (iii) arrest the
declining socio-economic and enviromnental conditions; and (iv) provide a critical
contribution to reducing the health risks from infectious diseases.
II. INTRODUCTION
3.0   The Ministry of Health states that the health, economic, and social consequences of
water pollution have aiready become evident to the residents of Georgia. The level of
morbidity by waterborne gastrointestinal infection diseases in several regions of Georgia has
dramatically increased in the last decade. The consumption of untreated drinking water
which has contributed to outbreaks of acute gastrointestinal diseases have been occurring
almost every year during the last decade. Annual outbreaks of dysentery have taken place in
Tbilisi with an average of 150 cases a year. An increase of morbidity of children with
Hepatitis A is evident in the region of the Black Sea basin. The beaches of the Black Sea are
strongly polluted from high bacterial counts (e.coli) ranging from 43,000,000 mg/l to
1 l0,000,000,00C,000 mg/I. Of equal concem is the unmanaged disposal of municipal waste
which has lead to increase in infectious diseases, impacts on water quality, and exposure to
vernin.
4.0 The project investments in Batunmi and Poti have the additional enviromnental benefits
of helping to alleviate serious pollution from some of the most critical "hot spots" on
Georgia's coast as identified by the GEF-supported Programme for the Environmental
Management and Protection of the Black Sea. Institutional development and technical
assistance activities will help lay the foundation for a long range resource conservation and
management program on Georgia's coast.



- 78 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 11
ii       Im. REHABILITATION PROJECTS
I. 
Baseline Conditions
5.0   Tbilisi Transportation: Since almost 90% of the urban transport users are dependant
Ii         on the Metro, it is important to improve the system to maintain cohesion of city operations
and improve the safety environment. Exposed electric cables and wires as well as water and
I         oil leakages resulting from a poorly managed system create a hazardous environment for
passengers. The investment plan would provide spare parts and improve system operations so
1          fthat the social benefit of passenger safety is achieved, in addition to efficiency gains.
Analysis of Alternatives
*r        5.1   With no action, the transportation infrastructure would continue to deteriorate and
threaten the operations and efficiency of the entire transportation system, and significantly
increase the potential for accidents. Use of individual vehicles would be the only alternative
to public transportation system. The use of individual vehicles is not a cost effective,
practical, and envirommentally sensitive alternative.
ImvactsIMirgation/Monitoring
5.2   The proposed immediate and short term action will have positive primary and
secondary impacts in reducing the potential for paralysis of urban operations and providing
better systems operations. Tree pruning, required for clearance of overhead electric cables,
will be managed in a sensitive way to reduce impacts to trees. The Metro and Thilitran
oversight committee and the TCC (Technical Coordination Committee) will monitor
transportation service operations and management.
*         6.0   Tbilisi Heating: For the past two winters, all 200 schools in the country's capital
were closed and many of the city's most critical hospitals had limited operational capacity
due to the lack of heating, including fuel shortage, degraded heating infrastructure, and poor
weatherization of buildings. To help provide the necessary enviromnent to maintain a basic
level of educational and health services through the winter, investments to mitigate this
situation should be initiated immediately (before the onset of winter).
Analysis of Alternatives
6.1   Alternative heating options, such as the use of kerosene heaters, were deemed
inappropriate for schools and hospitals as they were considered extremely unsafe for
operation in the presence of children. Additionally, the noxious fames from the use of
kerosene heaters in closed, unventilated rooms would have a significant adverse public health
impact. For -these reasons, kerosene heaters were deemed unsafe. Other space heating
alternatives depended too heavily on unavailable fuel and electricity inputs. The option of
taking no action would have a significant detrimental impact on the continuity of education
and on the vulnerable hospital patients of Tbilisi.
Impacts/Mitigation/Monitoring
6.2   The dominant environmental issue is the public health risk of exposure to
-         cold/freezing conditions. The TlAP would provide continuous power supply to hospitals,



- 79 _
Annex 12
Page 3 of 11
implement primary weatherization for 200 schools and 23 hospitals. Weatherization of
schools would provide positive impacts on public health, create a foundation for developing
long term environmental conservation strategies, and contribute positively to the social fabric
of the community.
6.3   Weatherization of these facilities may indirectly reduce the uncontrolled harvesting of
urban trees for firewood; thus, this approach impacts positively on the environmental. To
reduce the poor air quality in hospitals, low sulfur mazout fuel (.5%) will be recommended.
Although the project does Iiot encompass the purchase of fuel, the municipality has ensured
that fuel will be provided for the critical facilities identified.
7.0   Water Supply and Distribution (Tbilisi and Barwni): The water supply and distribution
system is currently suffering fromp defective equipment, leakage, and an unreliable electrical
supply. Continuous loss of ptessuic; in the distribution system and the consequent emptying
of mains give rise to potable water quality problems due to groundwater infiltration into the
network. In most districts, water supplies are only made available for two-hour periods.
During winter months, when electricity shortages are acute some residents are deprived of
water for periods of up to 4 days. In Batumi, the lack of treatment capabilities during
flooding forces the river intakes to the Water Supply Enterprise to close and requires the city
to be dependant on borehole water supply (which is energy intensive). The short-tern
investment project intends tu reduce the rate at which the system is deteriorating, reduce
wastage of water, maintain water quality, and improve utilization of the system in each city.
Analysis of Alternatives
7.1   An alternative to improvements in public water supply is the use of bottled water.
However. bottled water can only be used for consumption and does not satisfy the need for
other uses. Furthermore. bottled water is not cost effective, and it increases the production
and use of bottles and containers, which is energy intensive. Taking no action will only
prolong the inadequate supply of potable water and continue the risk to public health.
7.2   Sole dependency on borehole supply would require a detailed investigation of
groundwater resource supply and management of groundwater supply. Sole dependency on
river water is limited during periods of high flow due to increase of turbidity in river water.
Impacts/Mitigation/Monitoring
7.3   Improving the distribution of potable water would have a positive impact on public
health by reducing the occurrence of infectious diseases. A potential negative impact could
result if chlorine, a hazardous gas, is not properly handled and stored. Management plans
will be developed for storage and handling of chlorine. Temporary impacts would result from
disruption in traffic and water supply due to pipeline repairs. The Water Supply Enterprise
will be advised on improving water supply system operations. The TCC will review and
supervise components of the project implementation activities.
8.0   Water Treatment Facility (T7ilisi/Gardaboni): Currently only the mechanical screens
are is operating while intermittent electrical power prevents operation of the secondary



-80._
Annex 12
Page 4 of  1
biological treatment within the facility. The dominant environmental issue pertains to the
poor quality of water discharging into the Kura River. Additionally, the disposal of sludge,
including both industrial and municipal wastes, is potentially toxic and therefore can cause
environmental problems on the land which it is dumped on. The short tern investments
would include the renovation of sufficient primary tanks and associated systems, to permit a
total of seven tanks in service.
Analysis of Alternative
8.1   Taking no action would continue the deterioration of the treatment facility system, and
continue to impact water quality of the Kura River. With regard to establishing the proposed
dedicated hydropower facility which will be utilizing power plant cooling water to provide
power to the facility, preliminary calculation indicate there is insufficient hydraulic head to
generate sufficient electricity to make the Gardaboni facility somewhat self-sufficient.
Impacts/Mit iarion/Monitoring
8.2   Improvements to primary treatment would provide appropriate capacity consistent
with the flow arriving at the works. Operating consistent primary treatment operations at a
minimum would slightly improve the quality of the effluent being discharged into the Kura
River. The TCC will monitor the implementation activities.
9.0   Sewerage Systems( Tbilisi, Batumi, and Poti): Thirty to forty percent of the Tbilisi's
sewers are reported to be out of service because of blockages. This is a problem in all three
cities and has caused flooding into the streets and consequent public health risks evidenced
through the rise of infectious diseases. The proposed short-term investment would supply
pumps, spare parts, sewer renovation and cleaning equipment to maintain operational
integrity of the system and reduce sewerage overflow in the streets.
Analysis of Alternatives
j          9.1   There are no cost effective feasible alternatives in either city. All three are very
dependant on the existing sewerage infrastructure. Both Poti and Bamumi are located in a
topographically flat river floodplain areas where gravity drainage is poor and Tbilisi is
located in an area where altemative use (ie. septic systems) are not geographically feasible.
*          Furthermore, installation of self composting systems is neither cost effective nor viable in
cities as it is a system which serves primarily residential areas.
Impacts/Mitigation/Monitoring
9.2   The proposed investment for cleaning equipment and supply of spare parts would
improve the pipeline system and reduce sewerage flow into the streets, resulting in a
reduction to public health risks. This reduced exposure to infectious diseases would be the
primary positive impact.
9.3   A temporary negative impact, if sewerage management is not improved, would
include the potential increase in flow from cleaned pipelines which would discharge into the
Kura River. A temporary impact may result from disturbance and disruptions during sewer



-81-
Annex 12
Page.5 of 11
main repairs. Appropriate construction measures will be taken to reduce irmipacts. The TCC
will monitor the implementation acEivities.
Technical AssiRtance/Institutional Needs
9.4   The Water Supply Enterprises in all three cities will be advised on improving
sewerage system management. Technical Assistance will be provided to work with the City
Design Institutes to conduct the Sewerage Network Mapping which will entail a closed
circait television inspection survey.
9.5   The Integrated Coastal Zone Management Strategy will incorporate intermediate and
long term management efforts for waste water treatment to reduce the impacts of sewerage
outflow on Black Sea coastal resources.
10.0 Solid waste disposal (Tbilisi, Bawnui, and Pori): The dumps or landfills in all three
cities are posing problems to public health, surface and ground water quality, and local air
quality. In I bilisi, there are a number of non-sanctioned dumps located throughout regions
of the city which are located on river banks, commonly have open fires, and are infested
with vermin. The proposed short term action for Tbilisi includes establishing a dump-truck
transfer system that would allow more efficient operation of trash disposal to the sanctioned
landfills and a systematic reduction of hazards which arise from the illegal dump sites.
10. 1  In Batumi, the landfill is located at the bark of the Choroki River floodplain delta and
is causing adverse enviromnental hazards, including poor water quality and deteriorating
public health from the rapidly eroding landfill debris which washes to up on the coastline of
the Black Sea. Additionally, the landfill impacts its informal users (i.e. scavengers,
shepherds, grazers) who derive their livelihood on the resource. In Poti, much of the landfill
was cannibalized from the civil conflicts and remains umnanaged. The short-term investment
strategy includes the provision spare parts and equipment to improve landfill management in
both locations.
Analysis of Alternatives
10.2  The proposed Technical Assistance for a topographical survey of the existing landfill
site may provide insights on a possible feasible altemative site, possibly adjacent to the
current landfill. Similarly, a feasibility study should be conducted in Poti to identify
alternative sites, if necessary.
Impacts/Miti gation/Monitoring
10.3 The closure of unauthorized dumps in Tbilisi would have a positive impact on the
surface and groundwater quality by reducing runoff and leachate problems to te Kura river.
The dump closure will also improve air quality from reduced burning trash, and reduce
public health risks from infectious diseases. The TCC will review transfer system operations
and dump closures.



_ 82 -
Annex 12
Page 6 of 11
10.4  In Batumi and Poti, landfill investments would have significant positive impacts on
the public health and local and regional water quality by reducing exposure of contaminants
and debris in the water. Implementation of a landfill management plan, if prepared properly,
should have both primary positive impact on public health, and a secondary positive socio-
economic impact on the inforFlal users of the landfill. Care should be taken to not dislocate
these people during operaticas. The TCC will review landfill management and operations.
Technical Assistance
10.5 Technical Assistance will be provided for a Tbilisi Waste Management Master Plan.
The plan would propose to incorporate a community public participation component in waste
management and recycling as one step in a strategy to reduce waste and improve its
disposal.
10.6 In Batumi, technical advice will be provided for a topographical survey of the existing
landfill site undertaken using aerial survey. Technical Assistance will also be provided for a
Landfill Protection Program. This study for will focus on floodplain protection as an interim
measure to divert the flow in the channel and reduce landfill bank undercutting and erosion.
Additionally, the work program may include a feasibility study for a channel modification
strategy and temporary bank stabilization of the Choroki River in order to mitigate landfill
erosion into the Sea. In both Batumi and Poti. Technical Assistance will be provided for the
Integrated Coastal Zone Management Strategy (ICZM). The ICZM will incorporate
intermediate, short-term, and long term management efforts to reduce the impacts of the
landfill operations on the Black S_a coastal resources.



-83-
Annex 12
Page 7 of 11
[                       MUNICIPAL IEFRASTRUCTURE REHABILTFATION PROJECT
TABLE 1. ENVIRONMENTAL MITIGATION PLAN
IrVESI                  ISSUES            ACTIVITIES           IMPACTS           MMTIGATIONS   MONITORING
]PROJECT
I TRANSPOIRT                                 TIAP                General
7hilisi             * metro and         * purchase of        * positive ima-     * positive im-      x for monitoring
rolling stock       spare parts for     pacts to socio-     pacts will not       and review:
a        -              require spare        metro and rolling    economic fabric    require mitigation    Metro over-
parts               stock               of the city         effort               sight .ommittee
and Tbiltrans
* system in         * improveuents      * provide bettet                         oversight com-
disrepair          to power distribu-   system operations                        mitte will be
tion system for                                             established
c control room      metro and rolling    * more energy
in disrepair        stock               efficient system
* cpt,rational      Short Term          * tree pruning      * tree pruning
equipment and       * revision of                           will be managed
infrastructure in  fare structure                           to ninimize
deteriorated                                                impacts to trees
conditions          * improve opera-
tional equipment
poor manage-
ment of repair      * improve tracks
operations
a restore control
room
* refurbish
vehicles
1.



-84_
Annex 12
Table I cont. Environmental Mitigation Plan                                                           Page 8 of I I
INVESTMENT              ISSUES           ACTIVITIES           IMPACTS           MMIGATION          MONITORING
PROJECT
HEATING                                TIAP                General             General
Thilisi            * insufficient      * repairs to        * positive pri-     positive impacts   TCC will review
heating in schools   glazing of schools   mary and second-    will not require  projects/instal-
and hospitals      ary impacts on      mitigation effort    lation
* no insulation                        public health
in buildings       * installation of
2nd glazing to      * reduce impact
* deteriorated     schools and hos-    on urban forests
conditions         pitals
no negative
* no electricity   * installation of    primary or sec-
independent        ondary impacts
heating systems    socio-economic
and natural re-
provisions of    sources
dedicated electri-
city lines
-l
Short Term
* repair the
fabric of build-
ings
Specific           Specific
* insulation of    * public health     * insulation will    * TCC will
roofs              concerns from       be specified as     inspect insulation
insulation         asbesics free
* provisions for                       products
independent
heating systems
in hospitals
* provisions for    * noise from       * ihe gencrators    * TCC will eval-
independent        generators          will be housed.     uate optimal
electricity for                        and placed in      location for
hospitals                              locations to min-    placement of
imize impacts      generators
from noise
use of mazout    * use of low-
fuel               sulphur fuel
(<0.5%)



- 85 _
Annex 12
Table I cont. Environmental Mitigation Plan                                                       Page 9 of 11
INVESTMENT             ISSUES          ACTIVITIES           IMPACTS          MMIIGATION        MONITORING
PROJECT
WATER             Both Cities        Both Cities        Both Cities                           * Water Supply
SUPPLY             * interrupted     Short Term          * positive pri-                       Enterprise will be
7Tbilisi and      water supply                          mazy and second-                      advised on system
Batuin                                                   ary impacts on                       managemem and
* limited elecuri-                   public health                         operations
cal supply
a equipment for    * temnporary       * appropriate     * TCC will re-
* loss of water    repairing mains   impacts; disrup-   construction       viewrepair
pressure                             tion in traffic due    measmes mini-  activity
to pipeline repairs   mize impacs
* water loss'due
to leakage
* chlorination    * providing        * secondary im-    * propr storage    . management
plant in poor     chlorination       pact: chlorine is    and handling of  plan will be de-
condition         equipment          toxic gas          chlorine           veloped for han-
dling chlorine         I
* switch gear
and materials for
pumping (motor)
equipment
SDecific           Specific
Batumi             Batumi
* deteriorated    * standby gen-      * noise from      * the generators    * TCC will
pumps and lelc-    erators and rc-    generators        will be housed     supervise place-
uical equipment    placement pumps                      and placed in      ment and housing
locations to min-    of generators
Thilisi                              imize impacts
* laboratory!                        from noise         *  management
equipment for                                           plan and training
water quality                                           will be provided
testing                                                  for laboratory
operations
* studies: prepa-
ration of water
distnbution man-
agement plan



Ii'
- 6 -
Annex 12
Table 1 cont. Environmental Mitigation Plan                                                          Page 10 of 11
*    INVESTMIE                 ISSUES            ACTIVITIES          I1MPACTS           MTGAIION    MONITORING
PROJECT
WASTEWATER         All Cities          All Cities          All Ciries                              * Water Enter-
COLLECTION          * untreated sew-    * sewer cleaning    * primary and                          prise will be
AND                erage discharged    equipment           secondary posi-                         advised on system
TREATMENT           to river                               tive impacts on                         management and
Pori                                   * spare parts for    public health                          operations
Thilisi             * sewer network    sewer pans
Batumi              in deteriorated                        * positive sec-
condition                              ondary impacts
on water quality
-'                           * frequent block-                      and ecosystem
ages in sewers     * excavating
and flooding in    equipmeut           * temporary         * appropriate       * TCC will
streets                                impacts from        construction        review repair
.  basic renova-   disturbances        measures to         activity
no equipment    tion of primary      during sewer       minimize impacts
available for      treatment facili-    repair
I:                          cleaning sewers     ties
Tbilisi
* intermittent                         * sewerage line     * appropriate       * water quality
electricity        Poni                cleaning may        sewer line man-     Eesting will be
- refurbishment    have possible       agement and         initiated
t* reatment facil-   of pumping        temporary im-       piping will be
ibes inadequate    stations            pacts on river .    implemented
water quality with                     All Cities
* primary treat-    * vehicles and     flushing the                            CCTV inspection
ment under         equipment for       system                                  of sewers for
capacity           cmptying septic                                             future sewer line
tanks                                                      improvements
-  no secondary
and tertiary treat-
rnent
* treatment facil-
ities non-access-
ible, bridge in-
operational
i



- 87 -
Annex 12
Table 1 cont. Environmental Mitigation Plan                                                        Page ll of 11
INVESTMENT              ISSUES           ACTIVITIES          IMPACTS           MIGATION           MONITORING
PROJECT
SOLID WASTE        * disposal of       * study and        * positive pri-                        * TCC review of
COLLECTION         waste in uncon-     implementation     mary and second-                       landfill operations
AND DISPOSAL    trolled landfill/     for interim river   ary impacts on
Bamuri             dumps at river's    bank stabilization    public health,
edge               to reduce landfill    water quality, and
erosion into river    air quality
v water qualiry                                           * appropriate
problems from     .* landfill man-     * temporary        sediment and
runoff/debris      aged equipment      negative impacts    erosion control
washing imto the                       from increased     measures
river              * new collection    turbidity during
and transport      construction of
* limited supply    vehicles           river bank stabil-
of vehicles and                       ization
equipment          * spare parts
u Unmanaged        * landfill man-     * socia-econoniic   * landfill man-
disposal           agement strategy    impacs to infor-    agement strategy
mal users of the   will be sensitive
a open burning                        landfill            to informal users
of the landfill
* socio-economic   * compensation
impact to gravel    and reestablish-
operaLors on the   ment of gravel
river channel      operations in
river bed
7bilisi            * disposal of       * equipment,       * positive im-      * management       * TCC review of
wastc in unauth-    vehicles to estab-    pacts would     plan will de-      landfill operations
orized dumps in    lish transfer col-    reduce impacts on    veloped
regions of the     lection system      public health
city                                                      * unauthorized
* Study - a        * positive im-     dumps will be
* water quality    feasibility study   pacts on air       closed
impacts from       to produce master   quality
urban runoff and    plan for furure
leachate           development of      * positive im-
municipal solid    pacts on water
* poor incinera-    waste collecting   quality
tor operations     and disposal
operations
* fires at dumps
Pori               . unmanaged         * equipment for    * positive im-      * management       * TCC will
landfill           landfill operaions   pacts to public   plan would be      review landfill
health, water      dtveloped           operations
quality, and air
quality






