Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2658 GE
                       Development Credit Agreement
             (Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated November 10, 1994
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2658 GE
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Agency" means the Independent Agency for the Development of
Municipal Services, established through registration of its charter at the
local district office in Tbilisi (hereinafter referred to as the "Charter")
on September 23, 1994;
      (b)   "Technical Coordination Committee" means the committee to be
maintained pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Project Management Agreement" means the agreement entered into
by the Borrower through its Ministry of Finance and the Agency pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "Manual of Procedures" means the document adopted by the Agency
in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter
agreement signed by the Association on September 8, 1994 and countersigned
by the Borrower on September 23, 1994;
      (f)   "Project Current Account" means the account to be opened by the
Agency in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this
Agreement;
      (g)   "Local Contribution Account" means the account to be opened by
the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (d) of this
Agreement; and
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million five
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
Page  3
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15,
2004 and ending June 15, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on June 15, 2014 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-
1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall cause the Agency to carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and
engineering practices, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable the Agency to carry out the Project, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
Page  4
the carrying out of the Project by Agency.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04. 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by Agency.
      Section 3.04. During execution of the Project the Borrower shall
maintain within its Ministry of Finance the Technical Coordination Committee
consisting of representatives of the existing aid coordination unit attached
to the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the municipalities of
Tbilisi, Batumi and Poti, responsible for overseeing the activities of the
Agency in respect of the Project and provision of assistance to the Agency,
as required, by facilitating the cooperation of all public entities involved
in Project implementation.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the generality of Section 3.01
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall authorize the Agency to dispose of the
funds deposited into the Local Contribution Account for the purposes of the
Project and deposit into the Local Contribution Account additional amounts
of $272,000 on the following dates: July 1, 1995, January 1, 1996, July 1,
1996 and January 1, 1997.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Agency to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Agency.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause the Agency to:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) and the records and accounts for the
                  Special Account and Project Current Account for each
                  semester of its fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than three months after the end of
                  each semester year: (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, which shall
                  include a technical performance review and be of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts, financial statements
                  and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall cause the Agency to:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
Page  5
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                 Remedies
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Agency shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Management Agreement or the Manual of Procedures.
      (b)   The Agency shall have employed a General Manager who does not
have adequate qualifications or experience.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Agency will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Management Agreement.
      (d)   The Charter, the Manual of Procedures, or the Project Management
Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Agency to
perform any of its obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project.
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Agency
or for the suspension of its operations.
      (f)   The Borrower shall have failed to comply with a provision of the
bidge loan financing obtained from the Soros Foundation.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Project Management Agreement shall have been signed by the
Borrower and the Agency and is acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   the Agency has adopted the Manual of Procedures and established
an accounting system, both acceptable to the Association;
      (c)   the Agency has opened the Project Current Account in a
Page  6
commercial bank;
      (d)   the Borrower has opened the Local Contribution Account in its
National Bank and has deposited an amount of $300,000 into such account; and
      (e)   appointment of, and signing of a contract with, independent
auditors acceptable to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            170 Barnov Street
            Tbilisi 380062
            Republic of Georgia
                                          Telex:
                                            212348 MOFIN-SU
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA
                        By /s/ Alexi Bakradze
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                        By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods, equipment           7,200,000         100% of foreign
    and materials                                expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 80%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
(2) Works                      2,400,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3) Consultants'                 970,000         100%
    services
(4) Operating costs              135,000         100%
(5) Refunding of                 210,000         Amounts due
    Project                                      pursuant to
    Preparation                                  Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                      of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                1,585,000
                              __________
       TOTAL                  12,500,000
                              ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "operating costs" means expenditures in the respect of
the operation of the Agency, including salaries, office space and other
recurrent costs.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed SDR 1,200,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (4)
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after
October 1, 1994.
Page  8
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for goods, works and services not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to arrest further deterioration of,
and stabilize critical municipal infrastructure services in Tbilisi, Batumi
and Poti.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Tbilisi
I.  Immediate Action Plan
1.  Heating and Energy Services:
    (a)   Provision of primary weatherization for about 200 schools,
including replacement of windows with single pane glass, repair or
replacement of window frames, installation of polyethylene film, caulking
and exterior door repair.
    (b)   Provision of primary weatherization for 23 priority hospitals and
special power supplies, the latter through either installation of dedicated
distribution lines or installation of on-site, diesel driven electrical
generators.
2.  Urban Transport:
    Provision of spare parts for the metro and acquisition and installation
of cables for above ground transportation.
II.       Rehabilitation Program
1.  Heating:
    (a)   Provision of secondary weatherization for about 200 schools
through glazing and frame replacements and rehabilitation of existing
heating systems for selected schools.
    (b)   Provision of second pane windows and insulation, including roof
insulation, and installation of diesel generators for selected hospitals.
2.  Urban Transport:
    (a)   Improvement of ventilation, pumps, escalators and electrical
substations of the metro and of metro tracks at selected locations.
    (b)   Overhaul of a portion of metro rolling stock.
    (c)   Completion of restoration of the metro control system.
    (d)   Modernization of fare collection system.
    (e)   Rehabilitation of about 50 vehicles of the above ground transport
system.
    (f)   Acquisition of an inspection and repair truck.
    (g)   Installation of equipment to pump water away from underground
          electrical equipment.
3.  Water Supply:
    Provision and installation of essential spares, materials and essential
Page  9
equipment, including pumps, motors, switch gear, chlorination, laboratory
and short wave communication radio equipment and cabling, replacement of
selected distribution pipe work, provision of construction and main repair
vehicles and repair of service reservoirs.
4.  Waste Water:
    (a)   Provision of plant and equipment for the maintenance of sewers.
    (b)   Renovation works to sewers and water treatment plants.
5.  Solid Waste:
    Provision of about 3 transfer trucks and spare parts.
Part B:   Batumi
1.  Waste Water:
    Provision and installation of sewer cleaning equipment, renovation of
sewers in urgent need of attention, provision and installation of spare
parts for sewer repair, upgrading of three sewage pumping stations,
including standby generators.
2.  Solid Waste:
    Provision and installation of additional waste containers and related
equipment, spare parts for existing equipment, improvement of solid waste
handling, including a new landfill compactor/dozer, and river channel
stabilization needed to protect the existing solid waste deposition site.
3.  Water Supply:
    Refurbishment or provision and installation of pumps and standby
generator equipment at one borehole water source, provision of equipment
needed for repair work, provision and installation of communication
equipment, including short-wave radio, to improve communication between
pumping stations and water treatment stations and improvements in the
chlorination plant.
Part C:   Poti
1.  Wastewater:
    Provision and installation of sewer cleaning equipment, renovation of
sewers, upgrading of four wastewater pumping stations and provision of
vehicles and associated equipment for emptying septic tanks.
2.  Solid Waste:
    (a)   Provision of equipment for the efficient operation of existing
landfills, including a new landfill compactor/dozer.
    (b)   Provision of equipment, including spare parts, to improve solid
waste collection and transport operations.
Part D:   Additional Municipalities
    Carrying out of high priority infrastructure rehabilitation activities
in selected municipalities, as agreed upon by the Association.
Part E:   Institutional Development
1.  Provision of equipment and assistance to the Agency to strengthen its
project management capacity, including procurement planning, project
accounting, technical assessments and analysis of environmental and social
impact.
2.  Assistance for:
    (a)   special environmental public awareness and education activities
          in Tbilisi, Batumi and Poti, particularly focused on the Black Sea
          coast;
Page  10
    (b)   public relations programs to develop public support for the
          emergency heating assistance in Tbilisi (schools and hospitals);
    (c)   institutional capacity building at the municipal level for
          improved environmental assessment, monitoring and management;
    (d)   development of future options for more effective management of the
          household waste problem in Batumi and Poti;
    (e)   water supply development in Batumi and Tbilisi;
    (f)   urban transport in Tbilisi; and
    (g)   waste water treatment in Tbilisi.
3.  Studies and Assistance for:
    (a)   development of integrated Coastal Zone Management for the Black
Sea coast, building upon initial pollution abatement and water quality
investments in Batumi and Poti;
    (b)   a master plan for the Tbilisi water supply and household waste
systems; and
    (c)   comprehensive municipal services sector (including housing) in
Georgia.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.        Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines) and in accordance with the following procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount
of time required to complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended
a second time only if the bidding documents or the request for extension
shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes
in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 (a)(i) of this Section,
the Bank's prior approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the
bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and
(ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph
2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
Page  11
1.        Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.  Items or groups of items for specialized goods for which there is a
limited number of suppliers up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$2,400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison
of bids obtained from qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and
in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.        Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
4.        Contracts for spare parts, equipment of proprietary nature, and
in exceptional cases and if previously approved by the Association,
contracts for goods needed for early delivery and contracts for installation
work, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,200,000, may be awarded
after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
5.  Smaller works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or less per
contract shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures, acceptable to the Association, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, among prequalified contractors
selected in accordance with procedures set forth in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of prequalification:
    With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2
hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 of the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.        Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more; (ii) all contracts awarded under the
procedures set forth in Parts B.2 and B.4 of this Schedule; (iii) the first
two contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
and awarded under the procedures set forth in Part B.1 of this Schedule; and
(iv) the first two contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more and awarded under procedures set forth in Part B.5 of this
Schedule the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)        With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  12
    (c)  The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.       The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants' Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.       For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.       Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.       After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)  (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
               furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
               evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
               for the payment or payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
               request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
               withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
               Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
               requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and
               other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account
Page  13
               for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.       For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.       Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
    (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
    (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02
of the General Conditions; or
    (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.       (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
Page  14
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
