Report No. PID691
Project Name                     Georgia-Municipal Infrastructure (@+) ...
Rehabilitation Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Infrastructure, Urban cluster
Project ID                       GEPE8417
Borrower                         Ministry of Finance
Implementing Agency              Agency for Development of Municipal Services
111 Floor
89/24, D. Agmashenebeli ave
380002 Tbilisi, GEORGIA
Tel: 995-32-953-741
Fax: 995-32-951-003
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           October 14, 1998
Date Initial PID Prepared        October 14, 1998
Appraisal Date                   September 1994
Board Date                       November 8, 1994
Country and Sector Background
1.      Objectives:   The project has three main short-term objectives (a)
arresting further deterioration of critical municipal infrastructure services
vital to public welfare in selected Georgian cities; (c) improving overall
management and delivery of municipal services in a sustainable,
environmentally beneficial manner; and (c) reinforcing credibility of local
governments through visible interventions in key services in order to help
reinstate public confidence and ensure social stability.
2.      In the long run, implementation of this assistance program will lay an
important foundation for future reform and restructuring efforts aimed at
improving overall management and delivery of crucial municipal services.
Description
3.      The project has two main components: (a) an infrastructure rehabilitation
investment component aimed at protecting essential infrastructure from further
decay and renovating some urgently needed economic and social services
including:       (i) heating and energy-saving measures for schools and
hospitals; (ii) urban transport: (iii) water supply; (iv) wastewater; and (v)
solid waste collection and disposal; and (b) an institutional development
component aimed at (i) implementing the project effectively; (ii) initiating a
process to develop, over time, local capabilities in such critical areas as
project and financial, environmental assessment and management, procurement,
investment analysis; (iii) developing coherent strategies and action programs,
mainly at the local levels, to deliver key municipal services and control or
alleviate pollution problems along the Black Sea coast.



Financing
4.       An IDA credit of US$18.0 million equivalent, sufficient to finance 91
percent of the total project costs, estimated at US$19.69 million equivalent
over a three-year period. The balance of costs covered by bilateral funding
of about 1.5 percent provided by USAID and counterpart contribution of US$1.39
million equivalent.
Implementation Arrangements
5.      In order to ensure expeditious and efficient implementation of the
project, an independent non-governmental and non-profit agency, the
Independent Agency for Development of Municipal Services, was established
prior to negotiations to act as the PIU for this project.
Sustainability
6.      The project stresses an increase in cost recovery for urban utilities,
and increased financing of maintenance as sustainability enhancing measures.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
7.      The principal lessons learned from over a decade of Bank experience in
lending for municipal development, worldwide, include the importance of: (a)
strong and consistent central government support for the principles of
financially sound municipal development; (b) intensive project supervision;
(c) project design that is simple and that, at the sub-project level, reflects
the needs and desires of municipalities participating in the project; (d)
reasonable eligibility criteria for participation; (e) need for central
government assistance in the identification and preparation of municipal sub-
projects; and (f) simple and efficient procedures for sub-project review and
approval.
Bank experience in Georgia dates only from FY94; brief as it may be, it has
shown that four key factors can help facilitate project implementation: (i)
simplicity of project design; (ii) active Government participation in project
preparation; (iii) support in project management for agencies inexperienced in
implementing Bank projects; and, (iv) intensive supervision efforts by the
Bank.
Poverty Category
8.      Not applicable, but since investments are expected to be labor
intensive, the impact on the labor market is expected to be very positive.
Improved urban infrastructure and services should benefit the poor, who tend
to suffer disproportionately when basic services break down.
Environmental Aspects
9.      The project is rated "B".   The primary environmental benefits include:
(a) curtailing infectious diseases to public health by reducing the amount of
raw sewage flow through city streets; (b) introducing a more effective system
of waste collection and disposal as well as landfill management; (c) restoring
and maintaining potable water supplies in Tbilisi and Batumi; (d) providing
heating and weatherization in schools and hospitals in Tbilisi; and (e)
initiating a wider action program for improved management of Georgia's coastal
resources.
Program Objective Categories
Economic Management (EA)
Environmentally Sustainable Development (EN)
Poverty Reduction (PA)
-2-



Project Benefits
10.     The project will have four direct benefits: (a) helping rehabilitate
essential infrastructure in key municipalities. It will thus facilitate, in
the near term, the government's macro-economic stabilization efforts and, in
the long term, help provide the foundation for better managed, environmentally
sound municipal service systems; (b) arresting further deterioration and
disruption of essential services; (c) mitigating to some extent environmental
and health hazards and helping maintain crucial health care services and
educational programs during the winter; (d) demonstrating through effective
operation of the independent implementation Agency a workable alternative to
traditional procurement procedures in Georgia.
Project Risks
11.     The primary risk is that of political instability in the country.    This
risk we can't do much about. An important risk is that implementation
capacity will not be up to the task. To minimize potential problems or
delays, the project specifically focuses on rehabilitation priorities, uses a
non-bureaucratic implementation agency and undertaking an initial pilot phase
with procurement activities to identify. To further mitigate the risks, the
project will receive particular attention during the mid-term review and
maintenance management procedures will be emphasized in targeted technical
assistance.
12.     Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Slobodan Mitric, ECSIN
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-2951
Fax No.:         (202) 522-1165
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 30, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-4-



