CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 457 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Railways Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 31, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 457 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Railways Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 31, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1974, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided,
(B)   The Project will be carried out in part by the Sudan Railways
Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Sudan Railw:ys Corporation the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Sudan Railways Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and ihe Sudan Railways Corporation of even date herewith, as the same may be
imended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Sudan Railways Corporation pursuant to Section
3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c)   "Sudan Railways Corporation" or "SRC" means the Sudan Railways
Corporation established by the Sudan Railways Corporation Act, 1973 of the
Borrower and operating tinder the laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars ($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under this
Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and th. Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January I and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1984 and ending January 1, 2024, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The General Manager of SRC is with respect to Part A of
the Project designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B to E of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Until such time as a port authority is established to operate Port Sudan,
the Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project through SRC.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause SRC to perfonn in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable SRC to perform such obligations, and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(d)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit relating to (ii),
(iii), (v) and (vii) of Part A of the Project to SRC under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and SRC under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association including interest at the rate of seven and one-quarter


﻿6
per cent (7-1/4%) per annum and repayment over twenty-five years (including four
years of grace).
(e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. For the purpose of carrying out Parts B, C and D of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take steps adequate to ensure that (i) the
accounts payable to SRC by the Borrower's departments and other agencies
(including public corporations) which are overdue are fully paid by June 30, 1977
or earlier, and (ii) with effect from February 1, 1974 accounts payable to SRC
by such departments and agencies are paid on a monthly basis.
Section 3.04. Where a review under Section 4.04(b) of the Project Agreement
of SRC's financial position indicates a need for remedial action, the Borrower shall
consult with the Association as to the action appropriate.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall by July 1, 1975 establish an independent
port authority to operate Port Sudan and shall transfer to the port authority on
its establishment ownership of the facilities and items included in Part B of the
Project on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the charges for the services
provided at Port Sudan are set at such a level as will yield a reasonable return
on the investments in Port Sudan. Such return and the basis of its calculation
shall be agreed by the Borrower and the Association by July 1, 1975 or such
other date as may be agreed by the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) engage insurance experts to advise it on the
cover on insurable risks which is appropriate to the operation of Port Sudan; and
(ii) after reviewing the recommendations of such experts with the Association, take
out and maintain not later than January 1, 1975 or such other date as the Borrower
and the Association may agree, with responsible insurers or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿7
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall by July 1, 1976 review the tariffs for Port
Sudan in consultation with the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Inforniation and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through     their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the perfon-nance
by SRC of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the administration,
operations, resources and expenditures of SRC and, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the As,ociation all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures of SRC and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly infonn each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement
or the performance by SRC of its obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. This Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   SRC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which makes it improbable
that SRC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)   the Sudan Railways Corporation Act, 1973 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to


﻿9
materially and adversely affect the ability of SRC to carry out its obligations under
the Project Agreement; and
(d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SRC or for the suspension
of its operations.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Cor ":tions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of SRC
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and SRC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, SRC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of SRC in accordance with its terms; and


﻿10
(b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and SRC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
SRC in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date May 1, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Commissioner General for Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses arc specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
National Planning Commission
The Democratic Republic
of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, hve caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s/ Mohamed Osman El Nigoumi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Countif Programs Departnent
Easteni Africa Regional Office


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent)
I.         Railway workshops and                         2,870,000
communications equipment
II.        Freight wagons                               10,790,000
and components
III.       Central Railway Training                      1,000,000
School
IV.        Port Sudan equipment and                      3,800,000
improvements (including
consultancy services)
V.         River Transport Corpora-                      1,200,000
tion (equipment and tech-
nical assistance)
VI.        Airport development                           1,000,000
studies
VII.       Training of staff of                            160,000
Auditor General
ViII.      Unallocated                                   3,180,000
TOTAL             24,000,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;


﻿13
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category VI on account of expenditures
incurred after November 1. 1973 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $250,000; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
A.    SRC's investment program for 1973-1975 which comprises: (i) track renewal,
drainage improvements and siding installations; (ii) additions and
improvements to buildings and workshops and to workshop equipment and
handling facilities; (iii) improvement of communications, principally between
Port Sudan and Khartoum; (iv) rehabilitation of existing diesel locomotives
and purchase of about 10 mainline and 20 shunting locomotives; (v)
improvements to existing freight wagons and the purchase and assembly of
about 1,000 new freight wagons; (vi) improvements to existing, and purchase
of new, passenger coaches and service vehicles; and (vii) the establishment
at Atbara of a central railway training school.
B.    Purchase of equipment for, and physical improvements to, Port Sudan; and
provision of consultancy services for the improvement of operations at Port
Sudan and for long term port planning.
C.    Purchase of equipment for, and provision of technical assistance to, the
Borrower's River Transport Corporation.
D.    Feasibility studies for airport development in the Sudan and, subject to prior
agreement between the Borrower and the Association, detailed engineering
arising from such studies.
E.    Training of staff of the Auditor General of the Sudan.
*          *           *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1976.


