CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 457 SU
Project Agreement
(Third Railways Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
DATED JANUARY 31, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 457 SU
Project Agreement
(Third Railways Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
DATED JANUARY 31, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION (hereinafter called SRC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars
($24,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that SRC agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS SRC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth,
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.0 1. SRC shall carry out Part A of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices
and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972 as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) SRC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by SRC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SRC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) SRC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
req uest.
(b)   SRC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine Part A of the Project, the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.05. SRC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SRC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiviwg the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SRC
Section 3.01. SRC shall at all times manage its affairs and conduct its
operations in an efficient manner under competent and experienced management
and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 3.02. SRC shall at all times take all steps necessary on its par' to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which re
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.03. SRC shall by December 31, 1974 formulate proposals to ensure
the efficient management and conduct of its affairs and operations and shall afford
the Association adequate opportunity to comment on such proposals before
implementing them.
Section 3.04. SRC shall pay the Borrower annually an amount which is a
reasonable return on the Borrower's capital investment in SRC. This shall continue
to be four percent (4%) per annum until the end of SRC's fiscal year in which
the Project is completed and thereafter such rate of return as shall be agreed by
the Borrower, the Association, and SRC.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SRC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. SRC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than seven months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of SRC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿6
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SRC shall not
commit itself to any capital expenditures before the Closing Date beyond those
incurred in respect of items included in Part A of the Project except for
expenditures not exceeding in the aggregate in any one fiscal year an amount of
200,000 Sudanese Pounds.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SRC shall
take or cause to be taken all such measures (including the adjustment of its tariffs
by February 1, 1974) as shall be required to provide SRC with net operating
revenues sufficient to yield an annual rate of return on the net value of fixed
assets in operation of SRC of not less than six per cent (6%) for fiscal year 1975
and thereafter. For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term "net operating revenues" means the difference between
gross operating revenues accruing from the services of SRC and
all operating, maintenance and administration expenses, taxes (if
any) and adequate provision for depreciation but excluding
interest and other charges on debt;
(ii)        the term "net value of fixed assets in operation" means the gross
value of such assets, as revalued from time to time in accordance
with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation
acceptable to the Association, less the amount of accumulated
depreciation;
(iii)       the annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year of SRC by relating the amount of net operating
revenue in such year to the average of the net values of fixed
assets in operation of SRC at the beginning and end of such
year.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SRC shall: (i) review
with the Borrower in March of 1975 and each following year, SRC's financial
position; (ii) send to the Association the results and recommendations arising from
the review; and (iii) where such review indicates an adverse change in SRC's financial
position, in consultation with the Association, take such action as may be
appropriate.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SRC shall not
incur any debt unless the net revenue of SRC for the fiscal year next preceding
such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum   debt service


﻿7
requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of SRC, including the debt
to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(i)        the term "debt" means obligations of SRC which involve interest
or amortization payments, excluding debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business, and maturing not more than one
year after its date;
(ii)       the term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt; and debt
shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a loan agreement or, in the case of a guarantee of
a debt, on the date of execution and delivery of the agreement
providing for such guarantee;
(iii)      the term "net revenue" means gross operating revenue, adjusted
to take account of tariffs in effect at the time of incurrence
of debt even though such tariffs were not in effect during the
fiscal year or twelve month period to which such revenue relates,
less all operating, maintenance and administrative expenses and
taxes, but before provision for depreciation and interest and
other charges on debt; and
(iv)        the term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount
of amortization, interest and other charges on debt excluding
fixed return on the Borrower's investment in SRC.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and SRC shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and SRC shall from time to timt, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of SRC and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and SRC shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them


﻿8
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
SRC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. SRC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of SRC and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of SRC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify SRC of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted


﻿9
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For SRC:
Sudan Railways Corporation
P.O. Box 43
A                  Atbara
Sudan
Cable address:
HADID
Atbara
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of SRC may be taken or executed by the General Manager of SRC or such other
person or persons as the said General Manager shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. SRC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of SRC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by SRC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through  their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Countrv Programs Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
SUDAN RAILWAYS CORPORATION
By /s / Mohamed Osman El Nigoumi
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower and SRC shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower and SRC to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower
and SRC shall make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower and SRC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
d       specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower and SRC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of
the name of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish
to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, promptly inform SRC
and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise the
Borrower and SRC of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
4(c) of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿12
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works, equipment and materials,
the Borrower and SRC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
promptly inform SRC and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such
determination and advise the Borrower and SRC of any cancellation pursuant to
the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
3.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower and SRC shall send to the Association
for its approval lists of items of all freight wagons and components, workshop
equipment, handling facilities, telecommunications and traffic control equipment,
training school equipment and Port Sudan shore and floating equipment and civil
works material included in Categories I to V in Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement and the estimated unit and total price of each item. Items shall
be identified in contract documents and in all applications for withdrawal of the
proceeds of the Credit by the same identification marks as are in the lists sent
to the Association. The said lists may be revised by agreement between the
Association and, as the case may require, the Borrower or SRC.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
2.    For goods included in the table set forth in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower iray grant a margin of preference


﻿13
to goods manufactured in Sudan in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Sudan if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Sudan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in Sudan other
than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes in goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


