Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1804 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 23, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1804 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1987, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra (BTM) 
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to BTM the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and BTM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BTM" means Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra, the National Rural Development 
Bank of the Borrower, established pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 76-046, 
dated December 27, 1976;
(b)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BTM, 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)
"Statutes" means the statutes of BTM approved by the Borrower's Decree 
No. 76-440, dated December 27, 1976, as amended to date and as further amended from 
time to time;
(d)
"Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by BTM to a 
Beneficiary for an Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Credit made available to BTM, and "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so 
defined, which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule I to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Beneficiary" means a person, or a group of persons, or an entity with 
juridical capacity under the laws of the Borrower, predominantly dedicated to 
agricultural production, or primary processing/marketing of agricultural products, to 
whom or to which BTM proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(f)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(g)
"FMG" and "Franc Malagasy" mean the currency of the Borrower;
 
(h)
"foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower;
(i)
"Statement of Policy" means the statement of policy of BTM, adopted by 
its Board of Directors on March 12, 1987;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the outstanding 
voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively controlled by BTM 
or by any one or more Subsidiaries of BTM; and
(l)
"FY" means the fiscal year of BTM, starting on January 1 and ending on 
December 31 of each year.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by 
BTM: (i) on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the 
reasonable foreign currency cost of goods and services required for the Investment 
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; and (ii) in respect of the 
reasonable foreign currency cost of goods and services required for Part B of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special account (the Special Account) in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be 
cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year,
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15, commencing August 
15, 1997, and ending February 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on February 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) 
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half 
percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Unites States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause BTM to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement 
all the obligations of BTM therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable BTM to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to BTM as an 
equity contribution.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
computer equipment and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
Page  4
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by BTM 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. During execution of the Project and as long as BTM continues its 
maximum bad debt provision policy in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the Project Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that BTM shall not pay any dividends.
Section 3.05. By December 31, 1988, the Borrower shall take all measures 
necessary to carry into effect, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the 
recommendations of the study to be carried out under Part B.6 of the Project, as far 
as they relate to the Borrower.
Section 3.06. By December 31, 1988, the Borrower shall have adopted rules and 
procedures to be applied by its Central Bank in supervising the banking system in 
Madagascar; such rules and procedures to be acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
BTM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BTM will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower's Ordonnance No. 76-046 dated December 27, 1976, 
establishing BTM, or the Statutes shall have been amended so as to affect materially 
and adversely the operations or financial condition of BTM;
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BTM or for the suspension of its 
operations; and
(e)
a Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired or 
taken over by BTM, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely affect 
the conduct of BTM's business, its financial situation, the efficiency of its 
management and personnel, or the carrying
out of the Project.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a), (c) or (e) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and BTM; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Borrower has made a payment to BTM of FMG 2.5 billion for 
irrecoverable loans guaranteed by the Borrower and made by BTM to parastatals.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by BTM, and is legally binding upon BTM in accordance 
Page  5
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of Section 
4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement 
shall terminate or on the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la
Presidence de la Republique
   charge des Finances et de
   l'Economie
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINFIN Antananarivo
22339
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Leon Rajaobelina
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                               Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated        % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                      SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)     Sub-loans                  6,400,000        100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures
                                                    for goods
(2)     Consultants'                 600,000        100% of foreign
    services,                                       expenditures
    audit and
    training
(3)     Computer                     900,000        100% of foreign
    equipment                                       expenditures
(4)     Unallocated                  100,000
    TOTAL                          8,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to provide foreign exchange for new 
investments, rehabilitation, or expansion of existing businesses, in agricultural 
production or primary processing/marketing of agricultural products, to contribute to 
the strengthening of BTM, and to assist in the development of a long-term agricultural 
credit policy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Credit Component
 
Provision of Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for new investments in, or 
rehabilitation and expansion of, activities in agricultural production, or primary 
processing/marketing of agricultural products.
Part B:
Institution Building Component
 
1.
Strengthening of BTM's training and computer divisions through provision of 
technical assistance and acquisition of computer equipment;
2.
strengthening of BTM's project promotion and appraisal capabilities through 
Page  7
provision of short-term technical assistance;
3.
carrying out of a training program for BTM's staff;
 
4.
carrying out of a pilot project in field-level credit management aimed at 
reviving BTM's smallholder credit program;
5.
provision of consultants' services through BTM to entrepreneurs to assist in the 
preparation of viable projects; and
6.
carrying out of a study to formulate a national agricultural credit policy.
 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $400,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. on the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible 
Expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
Page  8
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be 
made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
Eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after, and to the extent that, the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
(1)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(2)
The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
 
"15. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in paragraph 
(b) of 
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
 
(3)
The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of 
Section 6.03 are deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project 
Agreement, no applications or requests permitted under 
sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of such 
Section shall have been received by the 
Association in respect of any portion of the Credit,  or having been so received, shall 
have been denied, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the 
right to submit such applications or approvals or to make 
withdrawals 
from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to submit such 
applications or approvals or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case 
may, 
with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such 
Page  9
notice, such  amount or portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
 
