CREDIT NUMBER 1804 MAG
Project Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANKIN' NY TANTSAHA MPAMOKATRA
Dated                             , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1804 MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      I            5      , 1987, between the
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION   (the  Association)  and
BANKIN'NY TANTSAHA MPAMOKATRA (BTM).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Democratic Republic of Madagascar (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BTM agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS BTM, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Management and Operations of BTM
Section 2.01. (a) BTM declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial and investment standards and practices, with
qualified and experienced management assisted by qualified staff
in adequate numbers and in accordance with its Statutes and
Statement of Policy, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,


﻿-2-
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b) By September 30, 1987, BTM shall assign adequately
qualified staff in sufficient numbers to reinforce its Planning
and Rural Development Department and Operations and Credit
Department for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) BTM undertakes that, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) BTM shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Association and of BTM; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall ]-e governed by the provisions of Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. By October 31 of each year of execution of the
Project, BTM shall submit to the Association for approval a work
program for the following FY of BTM of such scope as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably requet; any such work program to include a
report on the Sub-loans identified, prepared, appraised, or in
process of implementation, BTM's recruitment and training pro-
grams, the budget for the carrying out of the activities under
the Project during the following FY, a projection for the commit-
ments and disbursements to be made under the Credit during any
such  FY, a projection of BTM's balance       sheets, operating
accounts, and profit and loss accounts and a discussion of prob-
lems to be anticipated concerning the Project.
Section 2.05. BTM shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.06. (a) BTM shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) BTM shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the Beneficiaries, the Investment Projects, the Sub-
loans, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and the
administration, operations and financial condition of BTM.
(c) BTM shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by BTM of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.07. BTM shall, semiannually during execution of
the Project: (i) review with the Association the lending rates
for Sub-loans, set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (ii) adjust such rates for new Sub-loans, if
necessary, to ensure that the lending rates for Sub-loans shall
remain positive in real terms.
Section 2.08. (a) By June 30, 1988, BTM shall complete the
study to be carried out under Part B.6 of the Project and
furnish, for comments, to the Association a copy of such study
and its recommendations.
(b) By December 31, 1988, BTM shall take all measures
necessary to carry into effer.t, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, the recommendations of the study referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section as far as they relate to BTM.
Section 2.09. BTM shall not amend its Statement of Policy
except in agreement with the Association.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BTM shall: (i) maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and


﻿the benefits to be derived from it), to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
operations and financial condition of BTM, to identify, within
its overall operations, the development project financing, and
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.
(b) BTM shall:
(i)  have  its   accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors (the auditors)
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by the
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, BTM shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;


﻿- 5 -
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the auditors as to whether the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such expen-
ditures were used for the purposes for which they
were provided.
Section 3.02. BTM shall continue its maximum bad debt
provision policy until one hundred percent (100%) of its bad
debts, as certified by the auditors as of December 31, 1985, are
covered by reserves and, thereafter, BTM shall make adequ.Ate
provisions for bad debt, as certified by the auditors at the end
of any FY.
Section 3.03. During execution of the Project, BTM shall
withhold from interest payments to be made for certificates of
deposit all amounts needed to pay the taxes due on the interest
earned by any holder of any such certificate of deposit.
Section 3.04. (a) By September 30, 1987, BTM shall establish
a system of portfolio analysis which shall take into due con-
sideration aging of receivables.
(b) BTM shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
BTM's recovery rate of principal and interest of its loans shall
be at least eighty percent (80%) during FY 1988 and at least
ninety-five percent (95%) during FY 1989 and thereafter; in the
calculation of such ratio the loans, which have been certified by
BTM's auditors to be irrecoverable, are to be excluded.
(c) BTM shall consult with the Association, annually, on
the measures needed to achieve the recovery rate stipulated in
paragraph (b) of this Section during the next following FY.,
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BTM shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in
respect of any of its debt which, in the judgment of the Asso-
ciation, would materially affect BTM's ability to meet its finan-
cial obligations.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.06. BTM shall take such steps satisfactory to the
Association as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
or loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the various currencies (including FMG) used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BTM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date twenty (20) ysars after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in subparagraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BTM of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other addresses as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 7 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BTM:
Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra
B.P. 183
Place de l'Ind6pendance
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address                     Telex:
BANTANTSAHA                    22-323
Antananarivo
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BTM, may be taken or executed by its
Directeur GGn&ral, or by such other person or persons as the
Directeur G6n6ral of BTM shall designate in writing, and BTM
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By             /s(             G
(,    Regional Vice President
Africa
BANKIN'NY TANTSAHA MPAMOKATRA
By                   Autrz     Ree
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   (a) At the option of the Beneficiary, either:
(1)  11.92%, the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
the Beneficiary; or
(ii)  BTM's lending rate and commission for local cur-
rency lending applicable at the time of signature
of the Sub-loan, plus a front-end fee of the
equivalent of ten percent (10%) of the amount of
the Sub-loan, plus a fee of three percent (3%) per
annum on the amount outstanding of any such
Sub-loan.
(b) The terms of any Sub-loan shall not exceed fifteen (15)
years nor the useful average life of assets to be financed under
any given Sub-loan; such term to include a maximum grace period
of three (3) years.
2.    No expenditures for goods or services required for an In-
vestment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit unless:
(a) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have
been approved by the Association, and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the
date on which the Association shall have received the application
and information required under paragraph 3 (a) in respect of such
Sub-loan; or
(b) the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have
a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account, and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the
date on which the Association shall have received the request and
information required under paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in
respect of such free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of the
Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit
Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an
amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which


﻿- 10 -
shall not exceed the sum of: (i) $150,000 equivalent, when added
to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the proceeds of which
have been or are being used for financing goods and services
directly and materially related to such Investment Project; or
(ii) $3,200,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit
Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from
time to time as determined by the Association. It is understood,
however, that the first ten Sub-loans to be financed under the
Credit shall have to be approved by the Association in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
irrespective of the amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
3.   (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, BTM shall furnish to
the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary
and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions
of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the
Sub-loan; (iii) a calculation confirming that the economic rate
of return of any such Investment Project shall be at least twelve
percent (12%) and its financial rate of return shall exceed the
cost of borrowing to the Beneficiary by at least three percent
(3%); and (iv) such other information as the Association shall
reasonably   request.  It   is  understood,   however,  that  the
Association shall not approve any Sub-loan during any FY for
which the annual work program has not been approved by the
Association pursuant to Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b) Each request by BTM for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Beneficiary
and the Investment Project, including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including
the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) for Investment
Projects requiring financing of the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, a calculation confirming that the economic rate of return
of any such Investment Project shall be at least twelve percent
(12%) and its financial rate of return shall exceed the cost of
borrowing to the Beneficiary by at least three percent (3%).


﻿- 11 -
(c) Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before June 30, 1993.
4.   Sub-loans shall be superior to the equivalent of $20,000 and
inferior to the equivalent of $500,000, and shall be made on
terms whereby BTM shall obtain, by written contract with the
Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Association and BTM, including
the right to:
(a) require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards, and to maintain adequate records;
(b) require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at a reason-
able price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery, and efficiency and reliability of the
goods, and availability of maintenance facilities ard spare parts
therefor and, in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project;
(c) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association if the Association shall so request, such goods,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
(d) require that: (i) the Beneficiary shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e) obtain all such information as the Association or BTM
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the


﻿- 12 -
administration, operations and financial condition of the Bene-
ficiary, and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment
Project; and
(f) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Bene-
ficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with BTM.


﻿- 13 -
SCREDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Computer Equipment
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Computer equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
(1) With   respect to   each  contract  for  computer  equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
(2) With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(3) The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist BTM in carrying out Part A of the
Project, BTM shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
*    CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


