Document of
FILE COPY                            The World Bank                          TsI) wT
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                R   ?-     2    £:f  ;6
Report No. P-2170-3GT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 21, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$1.70
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                            US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                      LE 0.70
ABBREVIATIONS
ACR        Advisory Committee for-Reconstruction
AWA        Alexandria Water General Authority
GODE       Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
GOPW       General Organization for Potable Water
GOSSD      General Authority for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage
MOHAR      Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction
M&LT       Medium and Long Term
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
FISCAL' YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Pro1ect Summary
Borrower:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:             $2.0 million
Terms:              Repayable in 10 years, including 2 years of grace, through
semi-annual installments at a service charge of 3/4 of I
percent per annum. The credit would be refunded under any
later loan or credit the Bank/IDA might make for the water
supply project itself.
Pro1ect
Description:       The project would finance the foreign costs of a feasibil-
ity study and related technical assistance to help (i)
identify and prepare a regional water supply project, (ii)
define a suitable regional grouping for water supply ser-
vices in the territory served by the General Organization
for Potable Water (GOPW), and (iii) develop appropriate
management, organization and financial structures for re-
gional water supply authorities which would operate under
the direction of GOPW.
Estimated
Costs:                                          U- S$ million
Local     Foreizn     Total
Technical and Managtement Personnel
Project Manager                             -        .120        .120
Engineers and Technicians                 .152       .962       1.114
Management Team                             -        .500        .500
Other Supply and Personnel
Administrative and Clerical Support,      .077       .010        .087
Travel                                  .028       .122        .150
Sub-total                            .257      1.714       1.971
Physical Contingencies                    .026       .172        .198
Price Contingencies                       .017       .114        .131
Total                                .300      2.000       2.300
This document has raetrictod distribution oad may be wed by recipients only in the performance |
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwbo be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



Financing
Plan:                                         Local     Foreign     Total
---------(US$ '000)--------
IDA                                -        2.0        2.0
Government                        .3          -         .3
Total                             .3        2.0        2.3
Estimated
Disbursements:                    IDA FY               78         79
--(US$ '000)--
Annual                                   .2        1.8
Cumulative                               .2        2.0
Rate of Return:     Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   None.
Consultants:        264 man-months of technical and professional personnel,
including the project manager, engineers and technicians
will be required. The average cost of consulting ser-
vices, excluding contingencies, is estimated at $6,600
per man-month.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt, for the equivalent of $2.0
million to finance the foreign exchange cost of a Water Supply Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project. In accordance with the normal procedures for
credits of this type, the credit would have a term of 10 years with two years
of grace; it would subsequently be refinanced under any later loan or credit
that the Bank Group might make for a water supply project itself.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on the Arab Republic of Egypt (No. 870a-EGT),
dated January 5, 1976, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An
updating economic report dated March 22, 1977 was distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 8, 1977. A basic economic mission visited Egypt in May/June
1976 and its report is under preparation. Updating missions visited Egypt in
October 1976, January 1977 and July 1977; the findings of these missions are
incorporated in this report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities. Real
GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
1/   Part I of this report is virtually identical to Part I of the recent
President's Report for the Suez Canal Expansion project, distributed to
the Executive Directors on July 27, 1977.



4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat and approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisaged (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises, (ii) liberalization of the private sector, (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment, and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
which are expected to lead to a significant restructuring of the economy. In
particular, steps have been taken to remove some of the restrictions on pri-
vate business activities, to decentralize public enterprise management, to
encourage foreign private investment, to expand foreign exchange transactions
outside the official rate, and to loosen many of the restraints on banking
activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are also linked to the
major immediate weaknesses of the economy: the large deficit in the balance
of payments, the low level of government savings, and low efficiency in public
sector enterprises.
6.        A new government was formed in November 1976 following elections to
the People's Assembly, which were the first in which a choice of candidates
representing diverse political views was offered to the voters. The Cabinet
was strengthened on the economic side, and a Deputy Prime Minister for Finan-
cial and Economic Affairs was appointed to coordinate economic policy-making,
while President Sadat directed that economic questions should be in the fore-
front of the new Cabinet's tasks. Since then two minor cabinet reshuffles
have taken place.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.   Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from less than 3 percent in 1973 to about 3.2 percent in 1974 and an
estimated 9.8 percent in 1975 1/; the rise is attributed largely to recovery
of industrial activity through the provision of greater aid-financed inputs,
increased construction (particularly in the Canal Zone) and growth of trade
and services. The high rate of growth for 1975 was in part due to the recovery
of the Sinai oil fields (November 1975) and the reopening of the Suez Canal
(June 1975). If their effect on growth of the gross domestic product is ex-
cluded, the overall growth rate is estimated (by the Ministry of Planning) at
8.0 percent. Preliminary production data for 1976 indicate that the economy
continued to expand. The estimated rate of growth of 6.1 percent, however,
reflects increasing capacity constraints in some sectors.
1/   Ministry of Planning.



-3-
8.        Investment.   Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from
Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973 to
$2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable replen-
ishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973 period.
During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign resources,
investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).
9.        Public Finance.   Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation.
In 1975 tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Public enterprises (although
hampered by Government-imposed pricing policies) and social insurance and
pension funds contributed an additional 8 percent and 5 percent of GNP, re-
spectively. Total public revenues reached 38 percent of GNP, a major effort
for a country of Egypt's low per capita income.
10.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,830 1/ million (about
15 percent of GNP) in 1975, as the Government endeavored to protect domestic
consumers from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other
essential commodities. While exact data on defense spending are not available
(since a large portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign
financed--the Emergency Fund) it appears that the defense burden on the budget
eased over this period. Although it increased in absolute terms--from $1,100
million in 1973 to $1,485 million in 1976--defense spending, as a proportion
of total current expenditures, declined from about 39 percent to about 28 per-
cent in this period. Expenditures on economic and social services provided by
the Government (education, health, etc.) and other general expenditures have
risen at approximately the same rate as GNP.
11.       With increased current spending, public savings declined from 4 per-
cent to less than 1 percent of GNP between 1973 and 1975. However, preliminary
data for 1976 show an increase in public sector savings. As of May 1, 1976,
a number of subsidies were abolished, saving $140 million. A decline in inter-
national prices also helped cut the actual subsidy bill for 1976 to $1,600
million.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 16 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 42 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 25 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.



- 4 -
index in 1975 at 10 percent, but the real rate was probably much higher.
Indications are that the rate of inflation in 1976 remained high and that it
will continue into 1977.
13.       Balance of Payments.   Despite an increase in the value of commodity
exports by 56 percent between 1973 and 1975 (largely as a result of improved
international prices) export earnings fell well short of imports. Indeed, the
country's import bill almost tripled in this period due to increases in quanti-
ties imported, and soaring food and other prices. Egypt's export receipts
were influenced by declines in the physical production of certain field crops
(particularly cotton) due to a shift towards more profitable cash crops
(fruits, vegetables, clover) and increased domestic demand for exportable
products. As a result, there was a decline in both the value and quantity of
some important exports.
14.       The imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by
fast-growing earnings from services and from workers' remittances. Never-
theless, the overall deficit on the trade and services account reached record
levels, increasing from $654 million in 1973 to $2,480 million in 1975.
15.       In 1976 the deficit was reduced significantly, although at $1,390
million it was still high. Preliminary estimates show export earnings in-
creased by about 16 percent, due mainly to increased receipts from the Suez
Canal and to oil exports. Imports of goods and services fell by about 13
percent, in large part due to a decision to abandon the second tranche of the
1976 investment program and to restrict imports of intermediate and capital
goods. While there were some reductions in imports of consumer goods as well,
the smaller deficit must have been partly purchased at the cost of Egypt's
future growth.
16.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1974-1976
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1974 the deficit could be fully met
only by a substantial increase in short-term borrowing, including the use of
banking facilities. Higher levels of concessional assistance enabled a re-
duction in the use of these facilities in 1975, but lower aid flows in the
following year led Egypt to increase the use of this type of credit by over
$200 million to a total of $1.45 billion.
Development Problems and Prospects
17.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities of the projects into which
they are channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the
growth of consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate
infrastructure (particulary ports, power, transport, and telecommunications);
(iii) greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on com-
pleting ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of
prices (including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative



- 5 -
scarcities; (vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move
towards increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented
and employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial
capacity more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and
encouraging small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb
the growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan the framework of which has been completed. The plan is presently
under preparation.
18.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.    The
reasons for this are in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply the
growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to continue to
rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in about 1980--
there is then likely to be a substantial increase in revenues; (iii) Egypt's
improved prospects for oil production, which is put (by the oil companies) at
one million barrels a day by 1980-82, substantially exceed domestic require-
ments; (iv) considerably increased earnings from tourism--these reached an
estimated $383 million in 1976; (v) the possibility of using agricultural
land more intensely with greater emphasis on high-value crops; and (vi) an
increasing flow of remittances ($445 million in 1976) from Egyptians working
abroad. 1/
19.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take 5-10 years to achieve a sig-
nificant restructuring of the economy.
20.       Recent Policy Actions.   Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing excess
consumntion, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the parallel ex-
change market has been successively widened (the last widening took place in
March 1977), to comprise all exports except raw cotton, rice and petroleum and
all imports except basic mass consumption commodities and also excluding Suez
Canal revenues; (ii) the parallel market rate itself was further depreciated
to about 56 percent of the official rate; (iii) the attractiveness of the
1/   Additional substantial remittances came in the form of "own-exchange"
imports.



-6-
parallel market was increased by establishing a list of items which may be
imported through it without exchange restrictions; (iv) parallel market imports
were valued for customs duties at the parallel market exchange rate (a measure
equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the tariff on applicable
imports); (v) ceilings on interest rates were removed and interest rates in-
creased; and (vi) the "general organizations" that exercised rigid control
over public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced by "higher
councils," which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual enterprises.
The Government submitted a letter of intent to the IMF on March 4, proposing
to undertake further economic reform. On April 20, 1977, the Fund approved a
standby arrangement for the Government authorizing provision up to the equiv-
alent of SDR 125 million (approximately $145 million) over the next 12 months.
Drawings under the standby arrangement will be closely monitored and depend on
Egypt remaining within a series of quarterly credit ceilings designed to limit
the increase in the net domestic assets of the banking system to $1,536 million
in 1977.
External Assistance
21.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military aid
from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
22.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Western medium- and long-term (M&LT) capital
assistance began to grow after October 1973. However, because of the slow
disbursements inherent in the aid process, and the heavy repayments due on
past loans, net M&LT transfers from OECD countries to Egypt were initially
small. Commitments from the OECD countries have, however, led to a strong
aid pipeline. There were substantial inflows in 1976 and this situation is
expected to continue in 1977.
23.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$210 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.
24.       It is estimated that in 1977 Egypt needs to import goods, including
capital goods in the order of $5.0 billion, in part to compensate for the
severe reductions in imports in 1976. While prospects for increases in re-
ceipts from exports are good, a current account deficit of approximately $1.86
billion is forecast; in addition, a reduction in short-term debt of at least
$700 million (including paying off $450 million in arrears as of December 31,
1976) is desirable, amortization of M&LT debt will require $840 million and



- 7 -
there will be a reduction in bilateral balances of about $200 million. Thus
total foreign exchange requirements will be about $3.6 billion. Taking into
account estimated aid disbursements of $1,470 million 1/, and estimated sup-
pliers' credits, private transfers and foreign investment of $480 million
Egypt would still have a foreign exchange financing gap for 1977 of approxi-
mately S1,650 million. A major step towards meeting this gap was accomplished
recently. In early April 1977, GODE agreed to provide additional financial
support to Egypt in the amount of $1.475 billion to be made available in 1977
as a loan to the Central Bank of Egypt in stages, while Egypt carries out its
declared policies to correct its balance of payments disequilibrium.
25.       Consultative Group.   In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan and leading international and regional
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group
was held in Paris on May 11 and 12. At the meeting the major aid-giving
countries and institutions discussed in detail the most important problems
confronting the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and
its needs for external assistance. Delegates, while appreciating the magni-
tude of the task with which the Egyptian Government was confronted recognized
that the structural changes undertaken by the Government would take a number
of years to complete. They felt that the Government was taking energetic
steps towards accelerating growth and expressed their support of the Govern-
ment's statement on its development strategy and of its efforts to direct
future development within the framework of an integrated plan to be completed
this year. Delegates accepted the World Bank's estimate that Egypt will re-
quire disbursements of $3.6 billion in 1977, of which about $1.65 billion will
have to come from new commitments. As the result of the commitment by GODE
and an increase in the commodity aid portion of US assistance, it is likely
that the bulk of the foreign exchange gap in 1977 will be covered. However,
current projections of foreign exchange earnings and requirements indicate
that in the period 1978-80, Egypt will require external assistance of about
$2.8 billion annually in disbursements (compared with $3.6 billion for 1977).
About $1.6-1.8 billion of disbursements will come from existing commitments
leaving a gap of about $1.0 to 1.2 billion to be covered by new commitments.
A large part of this aid will be required in quick-disbursing form, i.e., as
cash or commodity aid.
1/   This amount includes among others disbursements from (i) a $250 million
cash loan made in 1976 by the Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt
(GODE), which is .a $2.0 billion fund created by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, UAE
and Qatar to participate in financing Egypt's development program; (ii)
a Eurodollar loan of $250 million from a consortium of American and
European banks, guaranteed by the Gulf Organization; and (iii) M&LT
project aid estimated $435 million (including $185 million from bila-
teral agreement countries). It excludes the additional assistance to be
provided by the Gulf Organization mentioned at the end of paragraph 24.



- 8-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
26.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1975 was estimated at $5,101 million. This was almost
double the amount at end-1974 of $2,760 million. During the first nine months
of 1976 the debt rose to $5,670 million. Of this, official M&LT loans amounted
to $3,043 million (of which $731 million was in clearing currencies). Another
$1,942 million was in convertible currency deposits and $685 million in sup-
pliers credits. Major creditors were Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, USSR, USA, Abu
Dhabi and Iran. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 2.7 percent of the total. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $680 million
in 1975, giving a debt service ratio of 26 percent. No reliable estimates of
military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain resched-
uling of service payments on such debt.
27.       While the bulk of external assistance to Egypt was obtained on con-
cessional terms, the continued high level of short-term indebtedness continued
to be a cause of serious concern. Commercial bankers' credit facilities out-
standing (including undisbursed) amounted to $2,297 million at the end of
December 1976 of which $1,447 million were disbursed. The liquidity require-
ments of this type of indebtedness created severe problems for Egypt in 1976
when arrears in repayments were reported. These arrears increased during the
first half of 1977, but by the beginning of September had all been cleared,
largely as the result of the receipt of about $1,075 million from GODE and the
mobilization of additional foreign exchange resources by Egypt. Another $650
million has been committed by GODE for disbursement by the end of 1977.
28.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph 20
above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's economic
situation and international environment. The situation however requires con-
tinuing review and further action. At the Government's request, the Bank has
arranged to review developments in the economy by economic missions three or
four times a year.
29.       If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, Egypt's foreign capital inflow requirements are estimated at about
$2.8 billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital
inflows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, includ-
ing a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing M&LT debt as a
percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated at 25 percent in
1976 and is expected to decline to 19 percent in 1980. In these circumstances
Egypt may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank lending in
addition to the IDA assistance which Eygpt merits on the ground of its poverty
and difficult balance of payments position.



- 9 -
PART II.- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
30.       The proposed credit would be the World Bank's thirty-second lending
operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970
to $969 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as
of October 31, 1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
31.       The principal objective of the Bank/IDA lending program in Egypt is
to support its development program through lending for (i) increasing utiliza-
tion of available productive capacity, (ii) projects which would increase pro-
duction and foreign exchange earnings or substitute for imports, particularly
in the key industrial and agricultural sectors, (iii) projects aimed at rehab-
ilitation and expanding infrastructure necessary to facilitate development,
and (iv) selected social sectors, namely population and education. The impact
of Bank/IDA participation in projects has been widened by attracting addi-
tional foreign exchange required for most of these projects from other donors.
Besides the technical assistance included under the Bank/IDA projects, the
Bank is Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed National Power Sector Survey and
for a Master Plan for Water Resource Development and Use. The Bank also
extended limited technical assistance in April 1976 in the preparation of a
five-year development plan.
32.       The projects financed to date have been in support of the strategy
outlined in the preceding paragraph. Preparation of projects for future lend-
ing is following the same line. A second telecommunication, a development
finance company, a second textile and an agricultural development project have
been appraised, while a project for the urban sector is to be appraised soon.
A pipeline of projects for possible future lending is also being developed,
including additional projects in water supply and sewerage, population, educa-
tion, power, rural development, transportation, agriculture (including drain-
age), industry, and tourism.
33.       Bank Group disbursements continue in 1977 to represent less than 10
percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank/IDA share
of total external debt outstanding and disbursed was less than 1 percent at
the end of 1975. For the future, the Bank/IDA share of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed (excluding military debts) is estimated to reach
about 11 percent in 1980, of which the Bank share would be about 7 percent.
It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 3 percent of service payments due on Egypt's external
debt.
34.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project,
was approved by the Executive Directors in April 1976. IFC is also discuss-
ing several other private sector and joint venture projects.



- 10 -
PART III - WATER SUPPLY IN EGYPT
Background
35.       Located at the northeastern corner of Africa, the Arab Republic of
Egypt is a crossroads of three major continents. Two vast deserts constitute
the major landmass in the country. Between them flows the Nile River, which
carves a valley 1,500 km long. North of Cairo, the Nile divides into the
Damietta and Rosetta branches, forming a delta which reaches to the Mediter-
ranean. Most of Egypt's population of about 37 million which is growing at
about 2.2 percent per annum, and most of the country's economic activity is
concentrated around Cairo and in the Delta, an area which accounts for less
than 4 percent of the country's land area of 1 million km2. Cairo, Egypt's
capital, is the largest city of the country with a population of about 7.5
million. Alexandria, the second largest city, has 2.4 million inhabitants.
Water Resources
36.       The predominant source of water for Egypt is the Nile River, which
provides an assured supply of some 55 billion m3 of water each year. Increas-
ing demands on the Nile -- principally for agriculture, which accounts for 95
percent of water use -- has called into question the continuing adequacy of
this source, and accordingly the Government has requested the Bank to act as
executing agency for a UNDP-financed Master Plan for Water Resources and Uses
in Egypt. This study is already under way. It will provide a long-term
perspective for water resource development, within the context of which local
potable water needs can be addressed through specific studies such as that
now proposed.
37.       Potable water is drawn from two sources:   either artesian wells, or
directly from the Nile and irrigation canals. South of Cairo, artesian water
is usually of good quality although sometimes containing iron and manganese
salts. To the north of Cairo and in the Fayoun Depression, artesian water is
characteristically brackish and may require filtration and blending with
sweeter surface water. Artesian water in the coastal areas of the Delta is
generally not suitable for human consumption, and communities depend entirely
on surface water.
Institutional Arrangements
38.       Provision of drinking water in Egypt is the responsibility of four
public institutions. In Cairo and Alexandria, separate Authorities which
commenced operations as private utility companies in the last century are now
responsible to the local Governor. The Canal Zone cities of Port Said,
Ismailia and Suez are served by the Suez Canal Authority. Water production
and supply in all other Governorates, both urban and rural, is the respon-
sibility of the General Authority for Potable Water (GOPW). Operations and
maintenance of the facilities are generally carried out in townships by the
local municipal authorities, and in villages and rural areas by GOPW itself.



39.       The responsibility for the provision of sewerage services through-
out Egypt lies with the General Authority for Sewerage and Sanitary Drainage
(GOSSD). The Authority designs, constructs and maintains sewerage and drain-
age facilities in all Egyptian towns, including the maintenance of the
Alexandria and Cairo sewerage systems. Its technical services are made avail-
able to the Governorates which operate and maintain provincial sewerage and
drainage systems. In addition to Cairo, Alexandria and the Canal Zone cities,
10 cities in Lower Egypt and four cities in Upper Egypt have sewerage systems.
Drainage systems without any form of treatment facilities exist in a further
12 Delta towns. All the authorities in the water supply and sewerage sector
are supervised by the Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction (MOHAR). Within
MOHAR, the Advisory Committee on Reconstruction (ACR) is responsible for long
range planning of infrastructure.
Sector ConstraintA and Policies
40.       A draft WHO/IBRD water supply and sewerage sector report which was
presented to the Government in July 1977, estimates that between 10 and 20
percent of the urban population which accounts for about 45 percent of the
country's total population is not adequately served with safe water; in the
rural areas more than 50 percent of the population fall into this category.
This implies that anywhere between 20 and 25 million inhabitants lack access
to safe public water supplies. The potable water distribution systems are
often old, underdesigned, and losses through leakage are substantial. Poor
plumbing and waste at the public standpipes also cause heavy losses. Con-
sequently only about 60 percent of total water production capacity is avail-
able for consumption. Further, excessive Central Government involvement in
planning and program implementation has stifled local accountability and
initiative. Water tariffs are low and furthermore 65 percent of revenues
generated revert to the central budget from which funds for new construction
and operating costs must in turn be obtained by the authorities. To improve
the situation, new effective organizations must be created, operating proce-
dures changed and investments must be increased substantially.
41.       The Government is fully aware of the above shortcomings and substan-
tial funds have been allocated for the planning period 1976-1985: LE 545 mil-
lion ($1.4 billion) for water and LE 358 million ($916 million) for sewerage.
However, this is an ambitious program which can only be implemented effec-
tively if there are major organizational changes and increased training. The
WHO/IBRD sector report therefore recommends the decentralization of GOPW into
effective regional authorities with integrated rural and urban responsibili-
ties. A similar approach would later be adopted for GOSSD. The proposed
project is designed to provide, among others, recommendations on how an effec-
tive decentralized water supply system can be set up.
Previous Bank Lending in the Sector
42.       The proposed credit would be the second Bank/IDA lending operation
to the water supply sector in Egypt. In February 1977, the Executive Direc-
tors approved a $56 million loan for a water supply project designed to pro-
vide additional water treatment capacity to the city and the Governorate of



- 12 -
Alexandria and partly also to two adjacent Governorates. The loan became
effective in July after a substantial tariff increase was implemented. That
project will (i) help the Alexandria Water General Authority (AWA) meet future
demand and overcome a water deficit now only being met at the expense of water
quality, and (ii) provide reliable water meters to help improve billing and
to reduce unaccounted-for water. Improvements in operational and management
techniques as a result of the proposed project should serve as a pattern for
water supply operations in other parts of the country.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       In an effort to try to solve the problems of urban development, a
number of important studies have been commissioned or completed by the Govern-
ment. Among those studies, a UNDP financed Master Plan for the Suez Canal
Zone cities has been completed. On the basis of this plan, the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID) is identifying high priority
water supply and sewerage components as part of a Suez Canal rehabilitation
and expansion program. Similarly, USAID is supporting (i) water supply master
plan studies for Cairo and Alexandria examining needs to the year 2000, (ii)
master plan sewerage studies in Alexandria, and (iii) a management and tariff
study for six Egyptian cities. In addition, a number of bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies are providing financial assistance for other studies and
specific projects in the water supply and sewerage sector. The Advisory
Committee on Reconstruction (ACR), the agency in the Government responsible
for long range infrastructure planning, has supervisory responsibility for all
investment proposals for water and sewerage and coordination of the associated
studies.
44.       While the needs of water supply and sewerage in Cairo, Alexandria
and the Suez Zone are already being addressed, very little has yet been done
to help the rural areas and secondary provincial cities that have populations
between 5,000 and 500,000 inhabitants. The Government has therefore invited
the Bank/IDA to help prepare a regional water supply project. In the context
of this preparatory work, proposals for institutional reforms designed to
improve efficient management in the sector will be elaborated.
45.       The proposed project was identified in April and appraised in
September 1977. Negotiations were held in Cairo and completed on October 26,
1977. The Egyptian Government was represented by Mr. Salah Fahmy, First
Undersecretary, Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction, and Mr. Samir Koraiem,
Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy and Economic Cooperation and GOPW by its
Chairman, Mr. Hafez. There is no separate appraisal report for this project.
Project Description and Objectives
46.       The project provides technical assistance in engineering and manage-
ment services, having three inter-related components with the following objec-
tives:



- 13 -
(a) identify and prepare a regional water supply project;
(b) define suitable regional groupings and priorities for water
supply services in the territory served by GOPW; and
(c) develop appropriate management, organization and financial
structures for GOPW.
First Component
47.       The first component of the studies will be to identify and prepare a
water supply project in the area provisionally selected by the Government as
being the one where the need for improved supply is greatest. This area com-
prises part of the governorates of Behera and Kafr El Sheikh (see Map). The
population of these regions is about 4.0 million, mostly living in rural areas
and a number of urban centers, including Damanhur, Kafr El Dawar, Kafr El
Sheik and Shabrakit with a combined population of 450,000. The present water
supply is inadequate and unreliable and much of the population is using water
sources of doubtful quality. The system in Damanhur has recently been enlarged
and upgraded, but operational difficulties are preventing full advantage being
taken of the new facilities. The objective of this part of the study would be
to design a scheme to provide safe and reliable supplies of potable water to
all consumers in the defined region, by integrating town and rural supplies
into a system (or series of systems) which would optimize the use of available
sources. The studies financed under this component would produce a complete
feasibility study for a proposed project, which would serve as the basis for
appraisal of a later, second, Bank/IDA water supply operation in Egypt.
Second Component
48.       The territory of GOPW has never been studied systematically to see
how the management of public water systems sources could be optimized taking
account of the distribution of the population and the resources available.
This part of the study would therefore make proposals on how GOPW's opera-
tions could be regionalized to best meet this objective. It is possible that
the regional groupings which are technically preferable might not coincide
with existing administrative subdivisions of Egypt, and the consequences of
such a lack of correspondence would need to be examined and resolved. Having
determined the optimal configuration of GOPW regions, this component of the
studies would make an inventory of the water resources available (including
wells and canals) and the existing facilities in use. It would also establish
the needs of the population in relation to its present size, distribution and
growth, and the present levels of service (in terms of the number of popula-
tion served, access to standpipes and quality of water). Available statistics
on these topics are at present scanty and unsatisfactory as a basis for policy
decisions. On the basis of the data collected under this component of the
study, priorities would be established for the improvement and augmentation
of water supply and distribution in the regions not covered by the first com-
ponent and estimates of costs would be calculated for further studies. These
studies would lead to the preparation of feasibility studies for a number of
the most urgent projects which would go forward with financial assistance from
Bank/IDA or other foreign lenders.



- 14 -
Third Component
49.       The third component would provide assistance to reorganize GOPW's
management, policies and procedures in accordance with the regional configura-
tion discussed in para 48 above. This reorganization would involve:
(a) consideration of the appropriate status and relation to other
governmental entities of GOPW and its regions;
(b) development of the organizational structure of GOPW including
the definition of the functions best carried out at central
and regional levels respectively, and the extent to which local
government bodies and officials should be involved in the regional
administration of GOPW;
(c) an examination of whether the existing managerial and technical
staff is adequate to implement the proposed organization; and
(d) definition of the financial arrangements and policies appropriate
to the proposed structure, including the degree of financial
autonomy appropriate to the regions, the principles of tariff
policy, and the proper allocation of revenues from water sales in
those towns which presently operate their own systems.
These proposals would be further developed in detail for the region in which
the proposed water supply project is located, the preparation of which is fi-
nanced under the first component (see para. 47 above). The Government agreed
to review the findings of the various studies with the Association before
implementing any of its recommendations (Section 3.02 (d)(ii) of draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement).
Project Execution
50.       The Ministry of Housing and Reconstruction, through ACR and GOPW,
would have primary responsibility for the execution of the project which would
be carried out by consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment would be acceptable to the Association. Detailed
draft terms of reference for the three study components have been prepared and
discussed with ACR and GOPW by the appraisal mission during September 1977.
This document is currently being finalized by ACR and its consultants and will
be submitted to IDA for concurrence before invitations to consulting firms to
submit proposals are issued. It is expected that the project could be com-
pleted by December 1979. An implementation schedule is attached as Annex IV.
During project execution, the consultants would submit interim and draft final
reports for review by the Government and IDA before finalizing the reports and
the recommendations therein.
Project Costs, Financing and Disbursement
51.       The total project cost is estimated at $2.3 million, including
physical and price contingencies. The proposed engineering loan would finance



- 15 -
the foreign costs estimated at $2.0 million, with the local costs being pro-
vided by the Government. No UNDP funds are available for this project since
UNDP allocations to Egypt have been fully committed. A breakdown of total
project costs is presented below.
------- US$ million -------
Local     ForeiRn      Total
Technical and Management Personnel
Project Manager                             -        .120         .120
Engineers and Technicians                 .152       .962        1.114
Management Team                             -        .500         .500
Other Supply and Personnel
Administrative and Clerical Support,      .077       .010         .087
Travel                                  .028       .122         .150
Sub-total                            .257      1.714       1.971
Physical Contingencies                    .026       .172         .198
Price Contingencies                       .017       .114         .131
Total                                .300      2.000       2.300
The estimated cost covers 264 man-months of technical personnel and 56 man-
months of supporting administrative and. clerical local personnel. The average
cost of consulting services for technical personnel excluding contingencies
would amount to $6,600 per man-month. Disbursements would be made against 100
percent of foreign expenditures for contracts awarded to consultants. The
credit would be refinanced under any later loan or credit that the Bank Group
might make for a water supply project itself. The estimated schedule of dis-
bursements is as follows:
IDA FY       1978       1979
---US$ '000---
Annual                                 0.2       1.8
Cumulative                             0.2       2.0
Prolect Justification and Risk
52.       The Project would make a major contribution in assisting the Govern-
ment to achieve its long range objectives of strengthening and reorganizing
the water supply sector both through the preparation of a priority project for
possible Bank Group financing and through studies leading to the establishment
of appropriate technical standards, financial policies and institutional
arrangements. The studies would help provide the Government with a viable
water supply policy for the rural areas and secondary cities and with data and
recommendations on sector planning, organizational changes in the sector and



- 16 -
water quality criteria. It would also help in the preparation of further
water supply projects suitable for external financing. These measures are
essential to improve water quality and increase water supply to the 20 million
people living outside the major cities many of whom fall into the category of
urban and rural poor and whose needs have hitherto been largely ignored in
sector development and budget allocations, and who thus face public health
hazards. The project faces no special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Engineering Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and
the text of a resolution approving the proposed engineering credit, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Features of the Agreement of special interest are summarized in
Annex III.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 21, 1977



It Vt    It Ito. t      It It 1: 1: It
,41                                                                                                                                                                  O'
19                                           In   1% 41                  Oft
4fj
0   10 I
itii       It%                      V!      1: 1: It    It  t I      It 4:               It  t
IF14 4al ft  W.                              =0
m mg-W
v
AL
1% It It It 1:  4: 1: It  ot t It   0. 0.                                                    1%         It It 1%           1%      t
4K       I M       0    ofto   W"Zz        MM        Z;ft   M-     am                                                                                     o               -0 4;d;
do   24.    a                                            Om                                        M M. M.         :10,    10          8 ft
ob                                       so
IL
le
19
2 10-
M-4 au I                                                                                                                                        4"
a_                                                                                                   OfteM
10 Ift                                                                                                                Ct
41 M 0;  6;p;-- pl'-                      Oft                                                                                       a.; i --
02 c  M-Oa                             AM                                                                101%                               W
M                                                 M                                 ame       la           1.0
C4,
oft   Oft                                                                                    It       It          It 1% It It                           :V: le,
0:   VU    fts'00"      ftm   M    ame    O-     a       -MM
M    Mv                           a 41W                 -10                                 On                     21                                  z
a
1.0    n                                                                 a
tnt                   It It 1:    It It                 ttt     %tt    t             t  tt       It 1% It         It I: It I le,
Ow            0 0                                                               1.0
::::ft    fto       le,: M                   in                                                                                        V".
IL                                                                                                              IP
o4.                                                                                                                                                                            M
3.z-
-1.11    &moo"                                             92
t
GM M
oddo                 r It        a                              :1    C'm
a  z   M                                 O.           1.
11             10=     L
Z-z    MO                                                  a 2 Z  To          'a.                                                        it 0
_40      ww     W                                                              -40        -XV,
Is      -0                        v        r'dr  -0       x 112 el   woomm     v ;A-                             dw
0                                                         t-M              tS o I                                      ow    W      M    -M-zz
40 0 0 C      0-     zzz   t 1.  -                                             ---     -
-10         _4     T xxvv                                       x                  -M               a.   f Ur
10                                                                91, 10:  CZ :I                    .   0 z A W          M.-:! -6"       -t%n
'--r I .;! .     -                                                            XZO         -  :a
.1  M.                                                                                     -24L M  a               -&a a     wzma
M    p-                                   ammn    a W             ::W    AM.W.                                           V -Jc-ap
a    mx    us 0 -A                             M 1:1)             6 z 0 0 a                      dL.                  -01000.                 p-
.-M      0.   0-                 S    C,         ft.r. a                                                                                                Mae-        a M O., 0 C
"I                           ",                                                                                                     40
0 . .      a             . ::!. M ' p- CO  a         wz   "W      IL    ft-t    :2                93 9  a 8 www  =mft x   I                                            W-M
%WZ  9-p-mmor 0                 z        0                                                                                                   -  C
20.    W                         6a,                                0 to  a  6- OaadL M -!!!! 0
7 9     a v                                  p'             &W                                                           W      It    dt SW bO -A -A dt        6 v
t 9                                                        V                                         31-
:2                                                                    p-p-     W                    IWO .'Z                                       W V U'do,
Wu   a        B        wf-mmb-                                                                            M
a        :Wong,                            a W    :Z
a                                                                                                                                Moo    aVop- W*Zzr:'-
31 a  0,                              =    4jo-
.OR    ad : OL ::: a 0    es    &=M=                  0 =P a as a  a -A                            a so
law aw  WU 2- !; %  0%  :  0  T.   .0   :.n    OMV.                                                                                        neanwan
:C,:   6       In, IOL                                                  el                                     W
.p- _an   a W       M a W                      V                      I,
3, 0      x 0           - a      W 0                                      0 a                0
W a       - 9           o a      T a                   C :                2 9                 0



Pace 2 ot La pagen
Unless othuwi.e noted, data for 1960 rater to any year between 1959 end 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, end for Most Recet Egtaatei between
1973 and 1975.
-. Spain's successful diversification of it. ocacesmic strtuatw, degree of induaetrailieation eLnd davelopownt of tourim makes it so appropriate
oob3ectIve * country.
lorpT    1M       /a 1950..55;    a   Including popealtinn of small agglomerationa in tho frontier districts;       /a   Figures relate to pereons
six years and ove, *xaluding nond pomlationg         1g  1961-65;     /a  19621    II  IncluMin   assdstant nmrmas and
midwives;     4j  1960-62;    41 Urban only.
4ZO /   1966r     a   Relates to 12-61 years okf age;    /4  Registered, mat all practicing in the ountry.
MCS RUM     SM    T&ms    /a  As p.rcentego of smpleyusnt;      Nt ay 1973;          1972;     /d  Raesltered, not all practicing in the
country;    /4   1971;    IL  1969-71 average;     4   1976, percentage or population.
PKMEEM    1970    A   Ae   Percentage of emplyment;      /b   eldU..
TVM      IM       A   z4 Reludes 17 haotesm provinces;   &   165-67;      /4  Mtio of popsl.atioca under 15 and 65 and over to labor force 15 years
and over;    4i   15 yners eNW over exldes eaN1cyed;          4I  flegltered only;     a   Djaposaale intas;      &   Including
aseistent nres" and midoives;      &    1961-661    4&  PereonO mit years and ower who tall the ceneoc taker" that thoyna
roa d write.
SPD     1970    /a  Naloymeot attics   estimates    A   Registered, not mll practicing in ths country.
R7, April 25, 1977
Lead AreS    hwo ke21pnlto ear ,n,sma parect, - Population, divided by ocs                                                                        f M.-ccinig
To_tal -Total -uface area caprisieg land area ad Inland    aters.                      neean     eale gredut.acsuress, "tt.ined- or 'certifited" nuresa, and
gril. - Moat recn    .tised t. of agricultural are  used cenporarily or Parma-         ecolliary perac,ewi with tralinin  t axperiewa..
aently fur cropa, p-astres * srkt t kitchan gardes or to It. fellow.               PeOMuliaiu  Por hoapItql bed - Pop.,1ataon divided by ntaber of hospital beds
aaiable in puli   ed Privata general and ap.ciali.ed hoapita1 and
CNP p-c ..Pit. (UIS) - GNiP per capita estietes at currant arbat prices,               ceahbilitatio  centes   excluds nursing has    end establialacta for
calculated by ss conversica machod ae World gsee  Atiaa (1973-75 basis);              uetodie1 and prevetie care.
1o60; 1970 end 1975 data.                                                          Per cepit. supply ef calories CL of requirements) - Cusputed gral energy
aqiastOf net food supplies available in country per cepita per day,
PaeuiLcoo an,d vital -ttai                                                              vilable suPplies capri.s dbasetit production, eports I... enparta, and
P.ooluiat- feid-year illioni   A. of July first   if aot -aiabla, av.r-S.               hongeo it stock; net euppILsa -nlae    nia   feed, -A.e, q-atiti.a uaad
of tw  end-yost cactlates; itb60, 1970 ad 1975 data,                                 in food procesing and Ios.s. in distribution: reqaironet. mere aatimatsd
POpu.tIo  dewt-Y- Mrquar  In   Mi-yta   poplatin pr sqare  ilOmtarby PAO based en phyiolegicai n-do far normal activity and health ceid-
Popuatio denity  eareguae be- Mi-yea  poplacin pe  squre kl~cs    sna  avitgf.,teI tenper8turs, body weights, age and se    distributions of
(100 hectorsa) of total area.                                                        Population, f      allmwing 10% few masta  t household level.
Poconlatle denity - Per atern be of eri,. loand - Computed as babve for,              Pe aiasapve         rti     am       r dew) - Protein cotent of per ..pit.
agO tr;loand only.                                                              5t spl ef fond perday;EMt aupl og food a.~ defiled as abe.; require-
manta for all co-tries eatabithad by USDA teonamic Reaserch services
1its1 _stetisti-a                                                                       provide for a otincus allowsnce ef 60 gross of total protein par day, sad
Crude birth rata ear thean.sers         Annual live birth. per thousand of              20 grens of animal end PUlse Protein, of which 10 gras should be enimal
oldya    pouato;tm-er`arifttetic averegas ening in 1960 end 1970,                     protein; tbeas standards are Iear than thmes Of 75 greme of tocal proteIn
and five-year -vrag   andig in 1975 for mat rsosot ectimsts.                         and 21 grome of soleal protein saen -var.a for the world, ProPosed by toAl
Crude 4.atb rate per thouaand. YvaRas  - AnaI deaths par thouseed of si4-yaac           in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ceo-year arithestic averagesaending in 1960 and 1970 and fIve-          PefaiaPoenselvim              da     n   ue      PrOtele supply of food
Year overage ending is 1975 for neat racent atinete.                                 derivedfro   antl    and pussi      rspr day.
lfauet matality roac f/thou) - Annual deathe of infants under one year of age        Death race .Ithou) aRea 1-4 - Annua deaths per tho.usad in age group 1-4
pe  hosn   b1v  ircb-.                                                         year,~ to cildren in thia see group; .usgested as an indicator of
Life seetZn, t birth fore) - Average number of years of lift romminig at               malnutrition.
birtch; usually five-year ever.gea ending in 1960, 1970 end 1975 for develop-
ing  Wcuties.                                                                      Rducation
Croas reor-duction race - Average lotebr of live d-ughters s       111 il bear        Adluated  rellant re,tiO -  pri-sy school - RErolloemt Of all ag0a as par-
in her nornal reproductive period if she enpri.aces preeont ege-apeific                atg   ofp4ryobl-asa Population; includs children aged 6-11 years
fertility r.t.s; usually five-yar averages ending in 1960, 1970 end 1973              bet adjusted far different lengtha of primary educati_n; for countries with
for dave:Lopg counria..                                                               universaleducAtion, enrollmant m     ay sex d 1001 since sas pupls. are bel,ow
Pouap.,cb grat, race C%l - total - Campemnd annual aro,eth race  of aid-year           or shor   h.e official achol Sg..
Pop11tai"'o for1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                        Aduted serolesotratio        -c - seonar ehOl - Computad as abov; Secondary
IPoslation~ arehOrt   1      rka    Cnpuitd like growth rets of totalaua.n1eurse                              leatforyer      of Approved primany instruction;
Population.cd    tif_re  da itione of urban area may affect coaparability of          provides genral, voctiona   or teether training inetructiona, for pupils
data amnog coatrn sof 12 to 17 years Of age; Ocrreapondeoca cours                                                                     see generally excluded.
Urban eanlation (    of ttotl) - 1Rtie, of ctoben te total population; different       easo   c   elapriddfiatdacodeel)-etlyear                          of
defisitione of urban ara may aff.et ongrareility of data meg countries.               seeln;a        eedr     eel     eainli         ninmaty be partially or
All It::ctr                                                     ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~capletely aecludad.
fe trutr ferc       - Children (0-14 years), Warbing-ago (15-64jyears),           Vocatinl erlen           fseodr)-Vctol                  cantioncsa include
sad  etird 16 yeRs sd ever) -a Percentag.  of old-year popul.atin.               tehnical, ndstrial1 or other progra    whih operte independeotly or a
Ane depsad..ty ratio 64 ceiO of poplation under IS and 65 and ovr to those              d.parnsenc  of secondary Inactuttiona."'
of ages 15 through 6.AduLt literacY race (7.                                                                - Literate adults (able to read sod writ.) as per-
Efosnoic dseadecat ratio - RatiO of PoPulation, under 15 sod 65 and ovr to. catage of total adult population ags4 15 years and ovr.
the labor force in age group of i-4 yers
tally slanino - aoescors ctaclatie. thou)- C-anti-cv  onb-r of acceptor-  HousinR
of birch-control devices coder .u.pi... of national fanily Planning pregra          Prea a          ubn      - Average -cb,r of person   pa r rem ia occupied
sineiocstion.                                                                        noroinldsl           sin urban areas; doesliogo exclude. non-pernn-t
tal  loin - ses 7 of.ustied wonen) - Percentges of mar,idwm           fsrcue                  n   ncuidpra
child-bere     g   154    er)wo      s   ic-otrldvc          t oi     arid          Ocupiedd4  llng without Ppned w    tatr (7) - Occu Pied colnvetiona1 dwellings
Catin s    ~as eg  group.                                                          in urban and ruralareas without i-ids Or outsid. piped water facilities
t                                                          --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a Percentage of all onoupiad dwellings.
Accts.,to elcrct     (. ofal     d:Illns   - ConventionalI dwellings with
Total labor foacts (thousand) - ftonmai-ely active person, including arned              electricity  .Ic lviog     urter aspecet ofttldwellings lo      rbec and
force  and uomlapyd h ut ecioding hsusewi-e, studeats, etc.; definitions              rural areas.
-c vroscoln,tties er not cOnp.rable.                                               Rural dClig once         oeetiiy()            -Copuated as shov  for rur1
Lablor fort to sori,,lture  CX) - Agricl1tora1 labor force (in franing, forestry,       dwellingsny
hotig  n  fiabings) as percentage of total labor force.
Uoneploy.d (7.oflbroce        - Unemployed are Usully defined as person  who.         Conscoocba
are able end willing to takn o JOb, cot of a Job an a given day, renind ou           ai eevr erto            e)      All type  Of receiver, for radio broadcas.ts
Of ajob,Cod  esbig wok fo  a secifed nninu  perodact ..c..dieg one      to genar.1 public per thousnd of population, ealudea _nliceeed rece.iver
uka,Zny not he ccpsr.ble betweeon countries due to different definittloa             in countries and In yese whan registration of radio este wa in effect,
of uompIey.d end sarce of data, e.g. ,   ap-oymant office  tti      a,aPI*            data for recent years nay not be nonpa-able sinceneat cOunttries abolished
---vy., -cnpuls-ry U.aployesnt isrnelIftening.
jn ~ ~ ~   - p-cot.g. of P'tt. J--   (bothi- c-.h -d   id)       PI e'Itr care Iee ~theu Poe    - Passenger cars cnprio  _et_r cars ass tiag
inca ditriotic -Perentge  f pivso mons  bot  Iccas  en itd)      aastha   eight pesna      teldude  abulancs, h..-.. and nilit.ry
rce-ived by rich.et 57., richest 207., pooreat 207., end poorest 407. of house-         hil.
Mode                                                                                EIactjrficij(:eh/vr per cap),     . Ann al eoaPtion of induttrial, tasertia1,
Di.trib.tion Of lead ovaer.hip - ftrc..ta.. ofpublic-addbprivItte.ele1tricityIintkilnwktt htohrs.peracapita,,generally
adistributio of7 lan   ladnrhl Po. ercaae    flo     uedb     rlb    t1                base.d on production dat., without allowence fer loesee In grids bar.11
Health and Nuttition  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~   ~       Nespin (hater Per cap) - Per tpit. annalI one,onption, in kilagrws,
Ponulatin ear Physician - Population divided by OtAntr of pr.cticing                    -t-*          rmdmsi        rdci.pu         tipt.O         pit
physicians qualified fmn a ndicel school at univerIty level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
EGYPT
8C0lIWflC ODIILOP I DAT
(mounts in. illtone of tlS dollars)
Actual              Eat.       Projected      1973- 1975-
1973      1974     1975    1976          1980         1975   1980        1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS1/                                        (COnstant 1975 Prices)              Average Annual
Crowth RAeso     As Percent of GDY
Gross Do.etic Product                   10,517    10,849   11,912  12,636           16,288     6.3     6.4           99   100   99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)               57       365    ..         82              113      ..      .            +1    ..   +1
Gross Destic Income                     10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718           16,401     6.1     6.6          100   100   100
Imports(incl. no.a-factor services)     -2,864    -4,052   -4,989  -3,904           -5,970    32.0     3.6          27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor services)      1j950     2.230    2.198   2.512            4.2Z6    6.2     14.0          16     19   26
Resource Gap                              -914    -1,822   -2,791  -1,392           -1,744    75.0    -9.0           9    23     10
Consumption Expenditures                10,115    10,887   11,836  11,806           14,179     8.2     3.7          96    99    86
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)   1,373     2,149    2,867   2,304            3,966    44.0     6.7           13   24    24
Domestic Savings                           459       327       76     912            2,222   -60.0    95.0           4      1    14
MERCHANDISE TRADE                        Annual Data at Current Prices                                          As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                            291       480      728     550                                            17    17
Fuels and intermediate goods             633     1,655    2,057   1,566                                            38   48
Cnnsuotn Goods                           740     1_340    1.544   1.349                                            45   35
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)     1,664     3,475    4,329   3,465                                           100  100
Exports
Agricultural Products                    423       857      522     490                                           42    33
Industrial Goods                         580       817    1.046   1.115                                            58   67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)     1,003     1,674    1,568   1,605                                           100   100
Travel                                   156       266      332     383
Suez Canal                                .                  85     308
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Average 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                        68       122      100     109
Import Price Index                        67        95      100     105
Terms of Trade Index                     101       128      100     103
Exports Volume Index                      94        88      100     114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                           As Percent of Total
Agriculture                               33        34       33     31
Industry, Electricity & Construction      24        26       28     28
Services                                  43        40       39     41
Total                                   100       100      100     100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                 1977
Current Prices           BudReted                            As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                      3,142     3,648    4,593   5,673   7,821                                  30    39
Current Expenditures                  2.786     3.487    5.056   5.238   6.121                                 26     42
Budgetary Savings                       356       161     -463    435    1,700                                  4     -3
Public Sector Investment              1,141     1,446    2,337   2,196   3,502                                 11     20
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURES DETAILS                                      Actual Prelin,.              DETAIL ON                At 1975 P and ER
(AS % of Total Current Expenditures)                1973   1974     1975     1976             PUBLIC SECTOR          Draft Plan
Defense                                             39.1    24.8    29.72/   28.34'            INVES11ENT PROGRAM     (1976-80)      7 of Total
Subsidies                                           17.1   35.8     36.2     30.5              Agriculture             1,997             10
General Services                                    19.6    17.6     16.6    21.3              Industry and Mining     4,792             24
Economic Services                                   24.2    21.8     17.5    19.8              Services                3,993             20
Total Current Expenditurts                         100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0              Transport and com-
muaications (Inc. Suez) 5,191             26
Other                   3.993             20
Total Expenditures      19,966           100
SELECTED INDICAMORS                                         1973-   1975-
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                                2.08    3.663,
Import Elasticity                                          3.81     0.75-
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                         Total Labor Force                    Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
In Millions          % of Total                   In US Dollars    % of Average
1973     1975       1973    1975 0                 1973    1975     1973    1975
Agriculture                                        4.2     4.2         47    44.2                     624    858       67    68.8
Industry                                           1.2     1.2         13    12.6                   1,557  2,087      167   167.4
Service 4f                                         3.6     4.1         40    43.2                    615   1,374       66   110.2
Total                                              9.0     9.5        100   100.0                    932   1,247      100   100.0
V/ Incorporating revised GDP estimates by the Ministry of Planning December 1976.
2/ Includes reconstruction expenditures.
3/ Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced in 1976. For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
4/ Includes distribution, electricity and construction sectors.



ANNEX I
EGYPT                            Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual              Est.
1973      1974       1975    1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                    1,003     1,674     1,568    1,605
Import of Goods, c.i.f.l/                                -1,664     -3,45              -3,465
Trade Balance                                            -661     -1,801    -2,761  -1,860
Service Receiptsl/                                          421        710     1,082    1,480
Service Payments                                           -414       -541      -801   -1,010
Service Balance                                              7       169       281      470
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                             -654    -1,632    -2,480   -1,390
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                 -407       -631      -568     -545
(of which suppliers' credits)                            (277)     (-285)    (-280)  (-300)
C.   Net Reduction in Short-term Debt                           --        --       -264      --
D.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts              -113       -28      -241     -200
E.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                          -1,174     -2,291    -3553    -2,135
F,   Supply of Funds                                          1,290     2,119     3,573    2,135
Private unrequited transfers                                6         42        91       65
Official grants                                           725      1,264       988      635
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt                --         --        --       --
Other MIT loans                                            170       199       583      665
Suppliers' credits                                         160       273       363      420
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                    --           5     1,580      470
Foreign investment                                        --           7        20       50
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits        352        585       --       235
Other monetary movements, net 2/                         -123       -256       -52     -405
G.   Changes in Reserves                                        116       172         20    n.a.
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                               725     1,264       988      635
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                      --          85        77      157
IDA                                                       75          55        55      40
Other Multilateral                                        --           6       100      100
Governments                                              290         595     2,507   1,375
Suppliers/Commercial                                     160         273       363     420
Total Public MLT Loans                                   525       1,014     3,102   2,092
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                   79          95       111     231
Repayments on Public Debt                                407         631       569     545
Total Public Debt Service                                486         726       680     776
Burden on Exchange Earnings (X)
Public Debt Service                                      34.1        30.5      25.7    25.2
EXTERNAL DEBT                                Actual Debt Outstanding on September 30, 1976
Disbursed Only          Percent
World Bank/IDA                                        154.5                  2.7
Governments and Arab Dev. Funds                     4,604.4                 81.2
Suppliers                                             685.9                 12.1
Other MLT                                             226.0                  4.0
Total Public MLT Debt                               5,670.3                100.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                        1,380.7
=/ Excludes "Own-exchange" imports
2/ Includes errors and omissions



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of October 31, 1977)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit  Approved                                                Less cancellations
Numbers       FY   Borrower            Purpose             Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Ln  243-UAR     60'     SCA   Suez Canal Expansion           56.5      --       --
Cr  181-UAR     70      UAR   Nile Delta Drainage             --      26.0      6.9
Cr  284-UAR     72      ARE   Railways                        --      30.0      1.9
Cr S-13-UAR1/   73      ARE   Cotton Ginning Engineering      --       0.2      --
Cr  393-UAR     73      ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage            --      36.0     18.4
Cr  412-UAR     73      ARE   Development Industrial Bank 2/ --       15.0      1.7
Cr  423-UAR      74     ARE   Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation   --      18.5      5.5
Cr  437-UAR     74      ARE   Population                      --       5.0      3.0
Cr S-15-UARI/   74      ARE   Talkha Engineering              --       0.4      --
Cr  484-UAR     74      ARE   Talkha Fertilizer               --      20.0      6.1
Cr  524-EGT     75      ARE   Ag/Ind Imports                  --      35.0      1.9
Ln 1062-EGT      75     ARE   Ag/Ind Imports                 35.0      --       1.4
Ln 1064-EGT      75     SCA   Suez Canal Rehabilitation      50.0      --      41.7
Ln 1085-EGT      75     ARE   Tourah Cement                  40.0      --      11.1
Ln 1098-EGT      75     ER    Railways II                    37.0      --      19.2
Cr  548-EGT     75      ARE   Telecommunications              --      30.0     23.2
Cr  576-EGT      76     ARE   DIB II 2/                       --      25.0     18.0
Ln 1239-EGT      76     APA   Alexandria Port                45.0      --      44.9
Ln 1276-EGT 47   76     ARE   Fruit and Vegetable Dev.       50.0      --      49.8
Cr  637-EGT     76      ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage II         --      40.0     36.3
Ln 1285-EGT      76     ARE   Upper Egypt Drainage II        10.0      --      10.0
Ln 1292-EGT      76     ARE   Textile Rehabilitation         52.0      --      51.8
Ln 1369-EGT      77     AWA   Alexandria Water Supply        56.0      __      56.0
Cr  681-EGT     77      ARE   Education                       --      25.0     25.0
*Cr  719-EGT 5/  77      ARE   Nile Delta Drainage II         --      27.0     27.0
Ln 1339-EGT5/    77     ARE   Nile Delta Drainage II         27.0      --     27.0
Ln 1440-EGT4/5/ 77      ARE   Nile Delta Drainage II         12.0      --     12.0
Ln 1453-EGT5/    77     EEA   Regional Electrification       48.0      --     48.0
Ln 1456-EGT 6/   77     ARE   Industrial Imports             70.0      --     70.0
Cr S-0O5-EGT 5/  77     ARE   Iron Ore Beneficiation and      2.5      __      2.5
Engineering
Ln 1482-ECT 5/   78     SCA   Suez Canal Expansion          100.0      --    100.0
Totals                                                 691.0    333.1
Of which has been repaid                                56,5      0.6
Total now outstanding                                  634.5    332.5
Amount sold                                     7.5
Of which has been repaid                        6,0      1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA 5/                       33,0    332.5   720.3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(amount in US$ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1976   Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry   4.25      .75     5.0
(plus .635
contingency (5.635)
commitment)
1/ Refinanced under Credit 423-UAR
2/  Formerly Bank of Alexandria
't Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
4/ Third Window Loan
5/ Not yet effective
6/  Declared effective November 7, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
At present, about 65 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1979, i.e., 2-1/2 years behind schedule. However,
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily and it is expected that the whole of
the credit will have been committed by December 1977, and that disbursement
will be completed by mid-1978. Due to inflation the local cost of the project
has increased by 90 percent, from $116 million to $220 million. There is no
foreign exchange cost overrun. Progress in project implementation during 1976
was satisfactory and, for the first time, the project reached the established
annual target. During 1977 there have been management changes in the Drainage
Authority, and the project has again fallen behind schedule. Government has
allocated the required local funds for the year 1977 for the implementation of
the ongoing Bank/IDA financed drainage projects. It has also agreed that
local funds required in the future would be included in the medium-term devel-
opment plan.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17. 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing dates
(originally, September 30, 1976 for the parts of the credit allocated to
signalling and telecommunications items and December 31, 1973 for the other
parts) were postponed one and five times respectively to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Effective Date: June 15, 1973;
Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This credit was fully disbursed and subsequently refinanced under
Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
At present, about 30 percent of the project is completed; full com-
pletion is expected by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. About 50
percent of the contracts for equipment have been awarded. Foreign exchange
costs have risen by about 14 percent almost entirely due to price increases
of chemicals for bilharzia control. The foreign cost overrun of the bilharzia
control program is being financed under the Upper Egypt Drainage II project
(Loan No. 1285-EGT and Credit No. 637-EGT).
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects.
As of October 31, 1977, 13.3 million had been disbursed. The transfer of
responsibility for this project to the newly established Development Indus-
trial Bank became effective on March 28, 1977.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation ProJect; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
in mid-1980 and the remainder of the full project financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed by June 1981. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million)
is now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component
continues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works.
By Presidential Decree of 1977 the Project Implementation Unit was upgraded to
the status of a General Authority for Rehabilitation of Ginneries which should
give the management more freedom regarding financial and administrative
matters.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project had been greatly delayed by a shortage of local funds
and by administrative problems. It is now being carried out with a reduced
scope but substantially in accordance with a revised schedule. Eight general
health centres financed under the project are to be opened and completed by
the end of 1977.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Talkha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1975.
The credit was refinanced under Cr. 484 below.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
The project is proceeding well and mechanical completion by mid-
1978 appears feasible. Additional foreign exchange financing to cover a
32 percent cost overrun has been secured from the Arab co-lenders under the
project.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and dis-
bursements are well advanced. One of the six surveys of industrial sub-
sectors has been completed and the five others are expected to be completed
by end-1977.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1978.
Progress to date on project implementation has been good, although
the implementation of the reconstruction project proved to be much more
complex than originally estimated by the appraisal team. The financial
situation of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and revenues are both
higher than expected at appraisal.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Contracts have been awarded for all equipment packages, and dis-
bursements are proceeding. More than 90 percent of equipment have been
delivered on site. Slow progress in civil works causes significant delays
which will result in a delay in the start-up of commercial operations by
about two years. Consultants which assisted in bid evaluation are now assist-
ing in supervision of project execution and improvement of the existing plant.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, the Egyptian Railways (ER) experienced operational
difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because of in-
adequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. Spare parts are now
being delivered and new locomotives have been obtained from bilateral sources.
Therefore, a gradual improvement of the traction and traffic situation is
expected. Also, declining traffic and rising costs resulted in a worsening of
ER's financial position. Government is considering increases in rail tariffs
proposed by ER.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
i Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cableslhave been largely completed: Telex equipment has been obtained with
financing from other sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange is
to be deferred.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
As of October 31, 1977, about $21.4 million had been committed under
the project and $7.0 million had been disbursed. The transfer of responsi-
bilitylfor this project to the newly established Development Industrial Bank
became effective on March 28, 1977.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation is slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants have completed the design of the four berth extensions. Proposals
from management consultants are being evaluated. Prequalification of con-
tractors for dredging and construction works has started. Bids for floating
cranes were opened on October 17, 1977.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants are at work on the drainage and irrigation components of the proj-
ect although the necessary counterpart staff have not always been present.
The newly established Agricultural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is
attempting, with the help of a consultant, to ensure that the various agro-
industries sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments, but there
may be need for some revision in this component.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected following man-
agement changes.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
This loan was declared effective on February 16, 1977 and project
implementation has commenced. The two beneficiary companies have established
effective project implementation units. About 75 percent of engineering
drawings have been completed and contracts with contractors have been signed.
Prequalification of the equipment suppliers has been completed and tender
documents are expected to be issued shortly.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project: US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977: Effective Date: July 6, 1977: Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The tariff increase required under the project is now in effect
and has been reflected on the water bills beginning August 1, 1977. Con-
sultants for the final design of the project and the procurement of goods
and services have started work. In designing the project the consultants
will review and take into account the results of a USAID financed interim
Water Master Plan presented in September 1977.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This credit was declared effective on August 19, 1977.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The effectiveness date of this project has been delayed from November
15, 1977, the original date, to January 16, 1978 to allow for additional time
for the ratification of the legal documents.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977: Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981.
The effectiveness date of this project has been delayed from November
15, 1977, the original date, to January 16, 1978 to allow for additional time
for the ratification of the legal documents.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This loan was declared effective on November 7, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln No. 5-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: December 19, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1979.
The effectiveness date of this project has been postponed from
October 18, 1977, the original date, to December 19, 1977 to allow additional
time for the ratification of the legal document.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: January 26, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31. 1981.
Action on effectiveness condition is underway. One dredging con-
tract to be financed by the Bank has been awarded and the other is expected
to be awarded soon; tender documents for equipment are being drawn up.



ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project first identified             April 1977
(b) Time taken by GOPW and ACR to
prepare project                      Four months (April to September 1977)
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider project (Appraisal
Mission)                             September 12, 1977
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations   October 26, 1977
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness        April 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Government agreed to review findings of various studies with the
Association before implementing any of its recommendations (para. 49).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project
Implementation Schedule
Study Outline
The study is in three inter-related components which are to be
carried out concurrently.
First is the preparation of a Feasibility Report for a project in
the water supply areas of the provinces of Behera and Kafr El Sheikh which
identifies needs, recommends improvements and prepares a suitable investment
package in the context of the establishment of a proposed regional water
supply authority.
Second is a review of water supply needs throughout the remainder
of Egypt in the rural areas and secondary urban centers to ascertain needs,
indicate priorities, assess investment requirements and cost proposed
feasibility studies which would prepare further projects.
Third arecompletion of a comprehensive management and organization
study of the General Organization for Potable Water (GOPW) and making recom-
mendations on an appropriate re-structuring of the authority's operations
on a regional basis. The objective would be to achieve better planning,
engineering, financial and operational control.
Terms of Reference
Detailed draft terms of Reference were prepared in consultation
with the MOHAR and GOPW by an IDA mission which visited Egypt in September
1977. These are currently being finalized by consultants with the Advisory
Committee for Re-construction (ACR) in MOHAR.
Procurement and Implementation Schedule
Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. Expressions of interest will be sought from consul-
tants on the understanding that one firm, by itself or in association with
others, will be responsible for completing the entire study in a period of 12
months.
The following timetable is proposed for:



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Prequalification
Evaluate prequalification submission ...     December 31, 1977
Recruitment
Invite proposals    ................ ........  January 30, 1978
Receive proposals      ......................  February 28, 1978
Complete proposal evaluation ..     .........  April 30, 1978
Negotiations with consultant ...........     May 15, 1978
Contract award and signature ...........     June 15, 1978
Consultant mobilized ..................      July 30, 1978
Study Implementation
First Interim Report
(a)  Engineering .........     ..............  within 3 months of commencement
(b)  Management and Organization ....... within 4 months of commencement
(c)  Review period ...  .................    2 months
Draft Final Report
(a)  Complete Study ..................      within 11 months of commencement
(b)  Review period ..................       one month
Final Report
Delivered ......         .............       within 13 months of commencement



IBRD 13192
29                       30                        31                        32                       33                    OCTOd9R 1ET?
Medlterranean               Sea
A1~~~~~~~~~~ ,
At t'     -
AXANDRIA,>  -'     T;^t:;                       49      .-I=Zl.  -, _PRT SAID
-' _ 7MAT91URA
ARAE REPUBL C OF Eu                            \   l'  , El
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL              . 
ASSISTANCE CREDIT
30'                                                                                                                                    0'
EDASISIIIIA STUDY AREAS                             -- J  "                             f                                     0
COMFOReEI I                 _I                                 SUCE7        8'L 7/ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 
DTHER FEATURED                               _-
I'ATE SURFACES ROAOS                  _
n, -+ - RAILUATS-DOUELE TRADC   ' ,
+ +1 -I+DEIS0AYS-RARTIESAY EDAMAED  -__ 
+   IDERTOADTET
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
i-To -   -N TRI1                          -
-----     eAlL
-29-          IAEEIINLSONAlS                                                                                Znm                        29-
V. '  4
29                                              '                                              \t      9-
_RAE s1>     SRAN -'  [      2                 2 _               i3\0> 
uf~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'  I                                                                                                       T.,eLBAtN?I 
Al..                                            iNY                         soe 9   hDE#fR  EIIIalluo   x  5 5  75  lTO   KMh5Sc <   ee
i       k   J  ~~~~~~~~2-2a   /c  fs  nee                  0          25        50          7~5   M0ILES 
|              |   /   4  (\    Ff   \  >  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33



