Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqpt No. P-2905-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND BOMBAY HIGH OFFSHORE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 18, 1980
This document is a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performdance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Weld Dank authorlutlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 13, 1980)
US$1.00       =      Rs 7.728968
Rs 1.00       =      US$0.1294
Rs 1,000,000         US$129,383
(Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.40,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the disbursement period.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BHS  -  Bombay High South
BOP  -  Bombay Offshore Project
DCF  -  Discounted Cash Flow
EIL  -  Engineers India Limited
GOI  -  Government of India
IOC  -  Indian Oil Corporation
LPG -  Liquified Petroleum Gas
Nm   -  Normal cubic meters
OIDB -  Oil Industry Development Board
OIL  -  Oil India Limited
ONGC -  Oil and Natural Gas Commission



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND BOMBAY HIGH OFFSHORE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:              Oil and Natural Gas Commission
Amount:                   US$400 million
Terms:                    Repayment over twenty years, including five years of
grace, at 9.25% interest per annum.
Relending Terms:          Maturity not to exceed twenty years, including five
years of grace, at an interest rate of 10.75% per
annum.
Project Description:      The project would comprise Phase IV and advance
action items of Phase V of ONGC's Bombay High
offshore development program. Its main objectives
would be to complete the development of the southern
and central areas of the Bombay High field, and to
achieve a production potential of 12 million tons
of crude oil per year by mid-1982. The project
involves the drilling of development wells, the
construction and installation of well, processing
and living quarters platforms, the installation of
subsea flow lines, the expansion of the storage and
crude stabilization facilities at the shore terminal,
the extension of the telemetry and telecontrol faci-
lities, and engineering and consulting services for
monitoring reservoir performance and for designing
and implementing a water injection program.
Thi document has a mtrctd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of ther official duties. Ia contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Estimated Costs:                                                   (US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total
Fifteen Well Platforms             43.3    193.3    236.6
Subsea Pipelines                     -       27.5      27.5
Development Drilling                7.9      85.7      93.6
BHS Complex                          -      230.0    230.0
Terminal Facilities                16.7       7.5      24.2
Telemetry and Telecontrol           2.4       5.0       7.4
Engineering/Reservoir Studies    6.9         78.6      85.5
Customs Duties and Taxes            2.4       -         2.4
Subtotal                        79.6    627.6    707.2
Contingencies:  Physical            8.0      60.3      68.3
Price            13.5      34.2      47.7
Total                       101.1    722.1    823.2
Financing Plan:                                                    (US$ million)
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD Loan                           -      400.0    400.0
GOI Loan/Equity (including          -        71.7      71.7
commercial borrowings and
bilateral assistance)
ONGC Internal Cash                101.1    250.4    351.5
Total                       101.1    722.1    823.2
Estimated
Disbursement:                                                     (US$ million)
FY81     FY82      FY83
Annual                            105.0    265.0       30.0
Cumulative                        105.0    370.0    400.0
Rate of Return:            Above 100%
Appraisal Report:          No. 3101-IN, dated November 5, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
INDIA FOR THE SECOND BOMBAY
HIGH OFFSHORE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
loan in an amount equivalent to US$400 million to India (GOI) to help finance
the foreign exchange cost of Phase IV and advance action items of Phase V of
development of the Bombay High oil and gas field. Amortization would be over
20 years, including five years of grace, at an interest rate of 9.25% per
annum. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to ONGC at 10.75% per annum
with maturity not exceeding 20 years, including five years of grace. The
exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2933-IN, dated May 1, 1980), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 14, 1980. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large and diverse country with a population of 663 million
(in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$180. Agriculture continues
to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the landless or nearly
landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of existence. The share
of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined
from 59.6% in 1950/51 to 40.7% in 1978/79. The share of industry has increased
over the same period from 14.5% to 22.7%. But industrialization has not been
rapid enough to absorb the growing labor force, nor to bring about the substan-
tial economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and rapid
urbanization in some other developing countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, and is 21% now.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past.  The trend growth rate of
GDP was 3.7% per annum from 1950/51 to 1978/79. Slow growth in agriculture--
2.5% per annum over the same period--has constrained overall growth, not only
because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce for-
eign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added
has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but
this growth has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as
1/   Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Mahanadi Barrages Project (No.
P-2899-IN, dated November 11, 1980).



- 2 -
required. Gross domestic saving more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51
to 24% in 1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP
rose from 10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have
never financed a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20%
was reached during the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion
had returned to much lower levels. External assistance has been low both
as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has
never risen above 3% of GDP.
5.        Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. As a result, India's share of world trade
has fallen consistently since 1950/51. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0% per annum. The volume of growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically, spurring a relatively rapid period
of export growth through the mid-1970s. For the five years ending in 1976/77
the volume of India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum, demonstrating
that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding world markets, par-
ticularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this process, adjustments
in trade policies designed to improve the profitability of exports played a
major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GDP is expected to have declined by about 3% in 1979/80 as a result
of the drought-induced decrease in agricultural production and input con-
straints in other sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-
term picture. Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to
shortfalls in the production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement,
as well as constraints in the provision of infrastructure, notably power and
transportation. As a consequence of these developments, the remarkable price
stability that characterized the Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt
end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79. During the spring and summer of
1979 the price index rose sharply, and under the drought conditions, which
were then quite serious, prices failed to make the normal downward adjustment
over the winter. The result was that the level of prices at the end of the
year (1979/80) were almost 20% above the level at the beginning of the year.
Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and autumn of 1979 but in most markets
still prevailed close to the Government's ration prices. Low income groups
in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at stable prices
through the public distribution system. The substantial stocks of foodgrains
also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employment program
for low income groups in rural areas.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and appro-
priate policies over the past few years are becoming increasingly evident and



have withstood the test of a severe drought. Agricultural production, which
had increased by 14.5% in 1977/78 and 3.4% in 1978/79 to record levels each
year, declined from 131.4 million tons in 1978/79 to 118-120 million tons in
1979/80. Considering that 1979/80 was a year of acute drought, coming after
two successive years of record output, the foodgrain production achieved--still
the fourth highest in Indian history--provides a measure of the contribution
that expanded irrigation, extension and other inputs have made to Indian
agriculture. Furthermore, the capacity of India's irrigation potential to
counteract drought conditions was not adequately tested because of the diesel
fuel shortages which inhibited the utilization of groundwater resources. Rapid
growth in the use of basic inputs for agricultural production has continued.
Additions to the area under irrigation have almost doubled from 1.3 million
hectares a year during the five-year period ending in 1973/74 to about 2.5
million additional hectares a year during the most recent three-year period.
Fertilizer consumption in 1979/80 exceeded five million nutrient tons, a level
almost 80% higher than in 1975/76.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is
even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79 India's
current account deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both'to GDP
and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was primarily due to
favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net invisibles which
masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports, which has barely
grown since 1976/77. Particularly serious is the evident decline in the
quantum of manufactured nontraditional exports which had contributed much to
the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combination of strong
domestic and slack international demand, exacerbated until recently by
apparent lessened interest in export promotion, have been the major causal
factors.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports--which had been a
traditional item in the balance of payments--have declined to insignificant
levels since 1977/78. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1979/80. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to double in 1979/80, accounting for more than 80% of the total estimated
US$2.5 billion increase in imports, and bringing India's total import bill to
about US$11 billion. Petroleum imports as a proportion of total exports now
exceed 44%.



-4-
Development Prospects
10.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless has a
highly diversified structure and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety
of consumer and capital goods.  Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways,
telecommunications, roads and ports--is extensive compared to many countries,
although there is considerable scope for expansion as well as improvement in
the utilization of existing capacity. India is also well-endowed with human
resources and with institutional infrastructure for development. Finally,
India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of land, water and
minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas-and oil). With good
economic policies and sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the
capability for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its long-
term growth.
11.       The new Indian Government installed in January 1980 is in the process
of formulating its policies and programs. A new Plan for the period 1981-86 is
being prepared to replace the Draft Five-Year Plan for 1978-83. At this stage
it is not possible to comment on the new development strategy; however, it is
unlikely that the priorities accorded to agriculture and power will be lessened.
Furthermore, developments in India as well as in the world economy during
1979/80 have brought to the surface urgent issues which will need the attention
of policy-makers, irrespective of the broader context of development strategy
that the new Government may adopt. Among these issues are the following:
(a) the bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints in production
of several basic industrial inputs; (b) the new policy options emerging in
agriculture; (c) the need to substitute less costly energy sources for imported
petroleum; and (d) the anticipated deterioration of the balance of payments in
the near future.
12.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to existing
demands, the past investment program has led to disproportionally low growth
in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services, steel and
cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted from large
investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these input bottle-
necks are alleviated. In the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic produc-
tion appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indi-
cating an a priori case for policies to promote greater investment. All these
are tradeable commodities. Although in 1979/80 they were not imported in
sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, increased short-term reliance
on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and dislocation in using
industries. In the case of sectors in which there is no option to import--
power and transportation--the planning of capacity expansion becomes even
more crucial. Although there is scope for improvement in the shortrun per-
formance of these sectors, major investments in balancing and modernization
programs as well as new capacity are needed in order to provide adequate and
stable growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastructural constraints
and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that the expansion of
industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce resources which must
be efficiently allocated among different industries.



- 5 -
13.       The substantial increase in the world price of petroleum in 1979,
together with the expectation that this pattern will not be reversed in the
near future, raises several issues concerning energy prospects for India.
India imports the equivalent of about 60% of its petroleum consumption. In
order to implement its policy of minimizing dependence on foreign oil, the
Government intends to rapidly expand its oil exploration program, to increase
the utilization of its vast coal reserves and to increase the development of
India's considerable hydroelectric potential. However, recent shortages of
coal and power are symptomatic of operational problems reflecting, in part,
past planning and investment decisions which are inhibiting the timely imple-
mentation of India's long-term conversion program. The interdependencies in
the economy currently make petroleum demand a residual which is contingent
upon the operation of many other sectors and which has significant implications
for the balance of payments.
14.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, devel-
opment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining a period
of high growth during the 1980s. India ended the 1979/80 rabi (winter) season
with grain stocks of about 15 million tons, without having imported foodgrains
during the year. This is partly due to the bumper crop of 1978/79, but also
reflects the trends of the last decade which point to a consistent improvement
in foodgrain availability in the economy. In view of the acceleration in the
use of agricultural inputs and the projected fall in the population growth rate,
the long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and demand balances look favorable.
Persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide range of
policy options will become much more practical as the overriding emphasis on
foodgrains can be somewhat relaxed. These options include a slowly falling
real price of foodgrains to increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-
income families, further rationalization of domestic markets and prices, and
diversification to the production of other higher value crops. This prospect
will involve only a gradual shift in emphasis rather than a dramatic break
with past policies.
15.       Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.  Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in terms
of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time since 1977.
A sharp increase in the trade deficit is expected to put far greater pressure
on the reserve level in 1980/81. At best, India's reserves may provide a
cushion for two more years, and even that is conditional on the maintenance
of aid flows and workers' remittances and on moderation in oil price increases.
16.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Progress has
been made and continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the
economy faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Invest-
ments required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable



-6-
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on the framers of India's next Five-Year Plan. The primary
focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment policies,
although the aid community can and should play an important role in ensuring
that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign resources.
17.       The annual population growth rate declined from 2.2% in the late
1960s to below 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.6% by the latter half of the 1980s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will only be achieved around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 81% over
the mid-1980 level of 663 million. Family planning has played an important
role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the extent of
a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of a success-
ful official family planning program. The family planning performance data
for 1978/79 and the first ten months of 1979/80 clearly indicate a recovery
from the sharp decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods
during 1977/78. Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for
all contraceptive methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the
increase in the total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was
modest, female sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and
1978/79. Data for the first ten months of 1979/80 confirm a secular upward
trend in overall performance. So far, policy makers have not made major
attempts to accelerate the male sterilization program. Instead, they have
opted for policies that would yield relatively modest but sustainable results
with increased emphasis on reversible methods.
18.       Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
tion growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to marginal holdings of physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illiterate,
the malnourished and those having otherwise poor health status. Improvements
in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the over-
all growth of the economy, mainly on productivity increases in agriculture
and nonfarm rural employment, but also on the expansion of employment oppor-
tunities in urban areas. These developments will have to stem largely from
market forces which, however, can be greatly facilitated by appropriate gov-
ernment policies and investment priorities. There is also a role for direct
government actions in faster implementation of land reform (though the scope
for significant reduction in poverty through redistribution is quite limited
in India), in increasing the supply of credit available to small farmers and
rural artisans and finally in broadening the provision of those services
which enhance the human capital of the poor and improve living standards.
Many of the latter are elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been
an integral part of Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been
slow but steady in the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural



health facilities and the provision of secure village water supplies. Recent
innovations, including the community health volunteer program and the national
adult literacy campaign, are encouraging evidence that well-targeted, rela-
tively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 59 loans and 129 development
credits to India totalling US$2,654 million and US$8,402 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,092 million had
been repaid, and US$3,925 million was still undisbursed as of August 31, 1980.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the Bank's current fiscal year through
August 31, 1980, totalled US$131 million, representing an increase of about
51% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement
of disbursements as of August 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$19.1 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$39.4 million, US$29.9 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page 5).
21.       In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.
The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation
and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through its
sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range of
geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises. IDA
financing of industrial raw materials and components for selected priority
sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capacity utilization in
industry. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure
development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning,
water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil and
natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis. Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sector
also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input in
the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,



urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form an integral
part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several years.
Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus on
those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on India's
overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in the balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s
by augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because
of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most proj-
ects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agricul-
ture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that, whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reason-
ably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for
external support. India should therefore be eligible for supplemental Bank
lending, for which it would be creditworthy. The ratio of India's debt serv-
ice to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain
below 20% through 1995/96. As of August 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India
held by the Bank totaled US$1,338 million, of which US$576 million remained
to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$775 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1979, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$15.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.6 billion or 30% (IDA's US$4.0 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1978/79,
about 17.5% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR IN INDIA
General
26.       Commercial primary energy (coal, oil, gas, hydro and nuclear)
accounts for about 46% of total supply in India,with the balance (54%) coming



- 9 -
from noncommercial energy (mainly firewood and agricultural and animal wastes).
Over the past ten years, the growth of energy consumption in India has aver-
aged 4% per annum,but this has not been sufficiently rapid to raise per capita
consumption above the relatively low level of 410 kg of coal equivalent which
characterizes the average for developing countries. Coal remains the main
domestic source of commercial energy in India. Coal production rose from
roughly 78 million tons in 1973/74 to just over 100 million tons in 1976/77,
but by 1979/80 had increased only slightly to about 104 million tons. The
stagnation of coal output, mainly due to poor capacity utilization, together
with the growing demand for coal, led to shortages which became apparent as
early as 1977/78. Improvements in the supply of electricity and explosives
to the mines should considerably facilitate short-run improvements in capacity
utilization and output. India also has substantial hydroelectric resources.
The economically exploitable potential is estimated to be about 70,000 MW of
which about 11,000 MW is already developed. 4,700 MW is scheduled for commis-
sioning by 1984 and a further 23,000 MW is under study for development. India
also has sufficient reserves of uranium and thorium to meet the projected
requirements of its nuclear power program.
27.       In late 1977, GOI appointed a high-level Working Group on Energy
Policy to review the national energy situation and to recommend policy measures
for optimal utilization of available energy resources; the Working Group
reported its findings and recommendations in November 1979. Prominent among
the measures it recommends to reduce energy demand are: improvement in the
efficiency of energy use, introduction of fuel-efficient technologies, reduc-
tion of transportation demand through improved planning of production and
consumption locations, reduction of the energy intensity of industrial invest-
ment and inter-fuel substitution from commercial to noncommercial and renewable
energy. The Working Group's recommendations are worthy of support since they
hold the promise of reducing commercial energy consumption without impeding
economic growth. But even if these measures are successfully implemented, oil
consumption is forecast to increase more than two-and-one-half times between
1980 and the turn of the century. Without implementation of the Working
Group's recommendations, annual oil consumption for energy use is estimated
to increase by an additional 35%. Oil products remain the main energy source
in uses such as road transport where alternatives are not economically practi-
cal. The continuing increase in oil prices, combined with the rapid growth
in consumption of oil products, is having a serious adverse impact on the
economy. An acceleration of oil exploration and development is therefore of
crucial importance and has become a major objective of the Government. A
major effort is thus underway to satisfy the rising demand without overly
resorting to increased imports. The volume of petroleum imports declined
from almost 18 million tons of crude equivalent in 1973/74 to about 16.2
million tons in 1975/76 but has grown since then and was at 16.2 million tons
of crude oil and 4.5 million tons of products in 1979/80. A further increase
in the volume of imports is expected for the period 1980/81 due to the unre-
solved unrest that has caused a disruption for much of this year in the normal
flow of oil from Assam, which normally provides nearly one-third of the
total domestic oil production. The import bill rose from US$719 million in
1973/74 to US$4.16 billion in 1979/80 and is expected to exceed the US$10
billion mark in 1985/86. The share of domestic production in total avail-
ability is at 40% at present and has been at that level for about a decade.



- 10 -
The domestic share is projected to improve to about 46% over the next five
years but would decline again in subsequent years unless new discoveries are
made.
Petroleum
28.       India's petroleum deposits occur in sedimentary basins  2hat cover
a total area of about 1.4 million km  onshore and about 250,000 km  offshore
(to a water depth of 100 m). So far, commercial production has been esta-
blished in only two basins: the Assam-Arakan basin in Assam, Nagaland,
Meghalya, Tripura, Manipur and Misoram in the eastern part of the country;
and the Cambay basin in Gujarat with its offshore extension, the Bombay High.
India's total recoverable hydrocarbon reserves were recently estimated at
6.5 billion tons of which 5.0 billion tons were offshore.
29.       Crude oil production from domestic reserves has increased steadily
over the last 20 years, from as little as 0.45 million tons in 1960/61 to
almost 7 million tons in 1970/71 and 11.8 million tons in 1979/80; it is
projected to almost double, to more than 22 million tons, by 1984/85. The
bulk of the increased production in the 1970s is attributable to Bombay High:
from nil in 1970/71 to 36% of domestic production in 1979/80. The potential
oil-bearing structures offshore of Bombay were first identified by a seismic
survey in 1966, but no exploration took place for almost eight years, since
offshore oil was not thought to be competitive with imported supplies at pre-
1973 prices. Commercial production from Bombay High, located about 160 km
west of Bombay, began in May 1976, slightly over two years after the drilling
of the first exploratory well, and reached a level of 2 million tons per year
by March 1977. The installed refining capacity of India is approximately 30
million tons. An additional 7 million tons of capacity is expected to come
on stream in 1981. Plans for new refineries and expansions of existing ones
are now under consideration in the context of the preparation of the Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85).
30.       As a result of the slow growth of the economy and Government mea-
sures to limit consumption of refined products, which was growing at a trend
rate of 8 to 9% in the period before the oil crisis, consumption of petroleum
products declined from 22.5 million tons in 1973 to 21.8 million tons in 1974,
but has increased since then at an average annual rate approaching 7%,to 29.6
million tons in 1979/80. Even with a low rate of overall economic growth in
India, consumption of petroleum products will exceed domestic production.
In 1984/85, consumption of petroleum products is expected to reach 44.9 mil-
lion tons. This would exceed expected domestic crude oil production by some
22 million tons,well over twice the gap that existed in 1979/80.
31.       The major institutions in the sector are the Oil and Natural Gas
Commission (ONGC) and the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC)--both public sector
undertakings--and Oil India Limited (OIL)--presently a joint Government and
privately owned company but in the process of being fully nationalized. IOC
handles all of India's crude oil imports and distributes imported oil products
in addition to those produced by its own refineries. Both ONGC and OIL are



- 11 -
engaged in exploration and development of hydrocarbon resources, but OIL's
activities are restricted to a small producing field in Assam and a small
onshore/offshore concession, the Mahanadi basin. ONGC is the main entity
through which GOI intends to explore for, and develop, hydrocarbon resources.
A more detailed description of ONGC is in paragraphs 44 and 47-49 below.
GOI's Ministry of Petroleum, Chemicals and Fertilizer is in charge of policy
making in the petroleum sector; it vets all programs and budgets proposed by
ONGC. The Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB) is primarily a financial
institution in the petroleum sector. It obtains funds through a cess levied
on domestic production and provides financing to oil organizations for deve-
lopment projects.
32.        It is against this background that India is now making a concerted
effort to attract foreign oil exploration companies to help explore for oil
both onshore and offshore, a recent initiative which has generated consider-
able interest within the international petroleum industry. The success of
these efforts over the next three to four years will be a key factor in
determining whether indigenous crude oil supplies can be increased suffi-
ciently to meet the anticipated growth in demand during the present decade.
33.        India has consistently followed a policy of maintaining retail
prices of oil products at international levels, with a cross-subsidy from
gasoline towards kerosene (on social grounds) and naphtha (for fertilizers).
Average prices in India for key products, last increased in June 1980, are
US$2.30 per gallon for gasoline, US$1.03 per gallon for high speed diesel
fuel, US$0.96 per gallon for furnace oil, and US$0.69 per gallon for kerosene.
Domestic crude oil is sold by the producer at Government-regulated prices.
These have not changed significantly in recent years and are about US$7.75 per
barrel for offshore and US$4.69-5.48 per barrel for onshore crude. The
offshore crude price includes US$1.60 per barrel of cess and royalties and
US$0.70 per barrel of pipeline tolling fees. While crude prices are low when
compared to international prices, they do not act as a disincentive to invest
in oil exploration or development, as the major producers are in the public
sector and operating decisions are based upon the international price of oil.
Crude oil and its products constitute substantial sources of revenue to GOI
and State Governments. In 1978/79, GOI alone received some US$2.1 billion
through excise duties, customs duties, corporate income taxes, dividends,
cess and royalties.
Bank Group Involvement
34.        The Bank Group has been involved in the Indian energy sector since
1950. It has made 20 loans and credits totalling US$1,504.5 million for power
generation and transmission and two loans totalling US$47.4 million for coal
production. The proposed project would be the Bank Group's second lending
operation in the Indian petroleum sector. In 1977, the Bank made a loan of
US$150 million (Bombay High Offshore Development Project, Loan 1473-IN) toward
Phase III of the Bombay High Development. The project includes production
wells, production and production/processing platforms with a combined capacity
of 180,000 barrels per day, and ancillary facilities such as a 26-inch gas and
a 30-inch oil pipeline, an oil and gas processing terminal, supply base, supply
lines and telecontrol. ONGC completed the first part of Phase III in June



- 12 -
1978 and all facilities are operating satisfactorily. A delay of six months
has affected implementation of the second or last part of Phase III, mostly
due to the suppliers' and contractors' failure to fulfill their delivery
commitments on time. The project is expected to be substantially completed by
December 1980. ONGC's field for future expansion is wide open, particularly
offshore, and the Bank expects to play a meaningful role in ONGC's program,
including exploration activities. This would include a continuation of the
Bank's institution-building role, started under Loan 1473-IN, by advising ONGC
in technical and managerial matters. ONGC is about to embark on the develop-
ment of the major South Bassein gas field capable of producing 18 million Nm
of free gas over 20 years to supply new fertilizer and petrochemical plants.
The Bank is cooperating with GOI and ONGC to ensure that the development of
the South Bassein gas field is carried out in an optimal fashion, and that GOI
and ONGC prepare the basis for a long term gas resource strategy in order to
maximize the benefits of this new source of energy to the economy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited India
in June 1980. The Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 3101-IN, dated
November 5, 1980) is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington in October 1980. GOI and ONGC were represented by
Mr. S.C. Jain, Director, Department of Economic Affairs and Mr. Venugopal,
Chairman, ONGC.
Project Description
36.       The proposed project comprises Phase IV and advance action items of
Phase V of ONGC's Bombay High development program. Its main objective is to
achieve a plateau production potential of 240,000 barrels per day by mid-1982.
The principal components of the project are: drilling of 64 development
wells, construction and installation of 15 production platforms, construction
and installation of a three-deck processing platform--Bombay High South
(BHS)--and a separate living quarters platform.
37.       The project would also include about 133 km of subsea flow lines.
Shore facilities at Uran near Bombay for the stabilization and storage of
crude oil would be expanded, as would the telemetry and telecontrol system
that was introduced under Phase III of the Bombay High development. The
project would also provide for consultancy services to ONGC for the prepara-
tion of engineering designs and bid documents, construction supervision for
the BHS complex and living quarters platform, assistance in overall project
management and monitoring reservoir performance.
38.       The project is expected to be completed by November 1982.  This
schedule is tight but achievable; it is based on ONGC's experience in imple-
menting Phase III of the Bombay High development.



- 13 -
Project Cost and Financing
39.       The project cost, including US$68.3 million of physical contingencies
and US$47.7 million for price escalation, is estimated at US$823.2 million,
of which US$722.1 million, or 88%, represents foreign exchange costs. Taxes
and duties included in the total are estimated at US$2.4 million. 1/ This
cost estimate is based, in part, on bids already received by ONGC.
40.       The proposed loan of US$400 million would provide 49% of the total
project cost and 55% of the foreign exchange cost of the project net of duties
and taxes. The balance would be financed by ONGC as part of its US$2.9 bil-
lion overall financing plan for FY1981-83, which includes US$1,224 million of
ONGC's internal resources, a small amount (US$19 million) of equity and grants
from the Oil Industry Development Board, and the balance, including working
capital, in long-term borrowings, which--as in the past--will be arranged or
provided by the Government (Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement). Bilateral
financing is already being arranged with Japan (for three of the platforms).
Discussions are also underway with the U.S. Exim Bank and other external
financing sources.
Procurement and Disbursement
41.       All items to be financed under the proposed loan (paragraph 43
below) would be procured in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding,
except that, subject to prior approval of the Bank, items with limited sources
of availability, whose timely supply is critical to efficient project execu-
tion and which are estimated to cost US$2 million or less, may be procured
on the basis of quotations from short lists of suppliers, provided that the
aggregate value of such contracts does not exceed US$7.5 million. A prefe-
rence of 15% or the customs duty, whichever is less, will be applied to any
local bid for the purpose of bid evaluation. The BHS processing platform
complex and the wellhead platforms will be tendered in lumpsum contracts;
this procedure is acceptable. ONGC's normal procurement procedure for for-
eign suppliers requires worldwide bidding similar to the Bank's procedures.
It is expected that this procedure will be applied for imported equipment
and services not financed from the proceeds of the Bank loan.
42.       Contracts with a total value of about US$40 million for items with
a long lead-time for delivery for the BHS platform complex (e.g. oil pumps,
compressors and generators) are expected to be awarded before the expected
date on which the proposed loan would be signed. These contracts have been
tendered and are being awarded in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines and would be eligible for financing from the proposed loan.
Retroactive financing of expenditures of up to US$5 million is proposed on
these contracts.
43.       The proposed Bank loan would be made to India, which would onlend it
to ONGC at 10.75% annual interest for 20 years including a five-year grace
1/   Offshore facilities are exempt from custom duties and taxes.



- 14 -
period. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms acceptable to the
Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement). The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against 100% of
foreign expenditures or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) on items eli-
gible for Bank financing (BHS platform complex and six production platforms
including subsea pipeline connections).
Project Implementation
44.       ONGC is responsible for project implementation.  The Commission,
which was established by an Act of Parliament in 1959, consists of a Chairman,
four full-time Members (Finance, Materials, Offshore, and Onshore) and three
part-time Members representing GOI's Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Petroleum, Chemicals and Fertilizers and the Planning Commission. As of
January 1, 1980, ONGC's total staff numbered 26,000, including 3,600 engineers
and senior technical personnel. ONGC's administrative and financial functions
are centralized in the corporate headquarters at Dehra Dun; its operational
staff is divided among three regional offices and the Bombay Offshore Project
(BOP), whose headquarters are in Bombay. BOP, which was created in 1973/74
and is headed by ONGC's Member (Offshore), is in charge of offshore explora-
tion and of the development of the offshore fields, particularly Bombay High.
Within ONGC, BOP would be in charge of implementing the proposed project. BOP
has been the focus of intense activity over the past five years. The increase
in its staff reflects its growing importance: from 20 in 1974 to 600 in 1977
and 900 at present. The staff is highly motivated, experienced and techni-
cally competent in its fields of activity. However, aware of the rapid tech-
nological progress in oil exploration and the development of oil and gas
reservoirs, ONGC continues to use foreign consultants when the in-house
capability is insufficient or to verify critical results obtained in-house.
ONGC has followed a consistent policy ensuring that techniques developed in
India reflect the latest technology available worldwide and are properly
applied.
45.       Compagnie Francaise des Petroles (CFP, France) has been engaged by
ONGC since 1977 to carry out computer modelling studies of the Bombay High
reservoir, with a view to optimize future production. Phases IV and V of
Bombay High are a result of these studies, which were independently confirmed
by ONGC's own reservoir specialists. Detailed engineering, design and tender-
ing for the production platforms as well as construction supervision for the
BHS complex and the living quarters platform are being carried out by Engineers
India Ltd. (EIL), which has sufficient experience in this type of work. Fluor
(US) would serve as back-up consultant for the BHS platform. EIL is also the
main consultant for the onshore terminal, with Kellogg (US) as back-up for the
processing plants.  Peter Frankel & Partners (UK) are the consulting engineers
for the onshore supply base at Nhava Sheva. The extension of telemetry and
telecontrol are being carried out with the advice of the Electronics Commission,
Radar and Communications Project, which has performed well for ONGC in the
past. During the implementation of the project, ONGC would continue to use
consultants for these activities, whose qualifications, experience, and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement).



- 15 -
46.       All necessary precautions will be taken during design and construc-
tion of the project to minimize the ecological hazards associated with the
production facilities, pipelines and the offshore and terminal facilities.
ONGC has chartered a multi-purpose supply vessel outfitted for offshore fire-
fighting and oil-spill cleanup, and has started action to acquire two addi-
tional vessels of this kind. OMISCO (UK) are serving as ONGC's advisors on
the maintenance of offshore oil installations. Four ONGC engineers received
special training in the UK in offshore pollution preventiorn and control, and
ONGC is in the process of setting up a pollution control group. The National
Coast Guard Service of India would assist in any offshore oil emergency. All
manned platforms will be equipped for fire-fighting and with emergency escape
and survival systems.
ONGC Finances
47.       ONGC is in a sound financial position, with a debt/equity ratio of
40:60 and a current ratio of 1.6. While key financial parameters (selling
prices, investment programs) are decided by the Government, the present frame-
work enables ONGC to operate in a financially responsible and reasonably auto-
nomous fashion. Past policies have enabled ONGC to perform satisfactorily
thus far, and this is expected to continue in the future. ONGC's income
statements for the last four years demonstrate the rapid growth that ONGC has
experienced in its activities, primarily because of the expanding offshore
production. Sales of offshore crude increased more than tenfold, from 0.4
million tons in 1977 to 4.2 million tons in 1980, while sales of onshore
crude declined from 5.3 million tons in 1977 to 5.0 million tons in 1980
(after reaching a peak of 5.6 million tons in 1979). Revenues also grew
steadily, from Rs 2.1 billion in 1977 to Rs 4.1 billion in 1980. Net profits,
which had been Rs 0.4 billion in 1977, were Rs 0.7 billion in 1980. In the
1977-80 period, ONGC's overall investment amounted to Rs 10.0 billion (US$1.2
billion), one-half of which was financed from internal cash generation.
48.       The total of ONGC's balance sheet as of March 31, 1980 was Rs 9.4
billion (US$1.1 billion), including Rs 6.6 billion (US$780 million) in net
fixed assets, Rs 5.7 billion in equity, and Rs 3.7 billion in long-term debt.
Over the past three years, ONGC has obtained Rs 961 million in equity contri-
butions from GOI toward the financing of exploration expenditures. Most of
the balance of its financing requirements was obtained from GOI in the form
of long-term loans (including the proceeds of Loan 1473-IN) and from the Oil
Industry Development Board. Its debt coverage ratio, 6.8 in 1980, is satis-
factory.
49.       Financial projections for 1981-85 indicate that ONGC's performance
should continue to be satisfactory. This forecast conservatively assumes that
prices of crude oil and natural gas remain constant, that GOI would no longer
provide equity financing, and that no discovery of additional oil or gas would
be made during the period. While the volume of crude oil sales would continue
to grow, ONGC's net profit would peak in 1983 at Rs 1.4 billion, up from Rs 0.8
billion in 1981, and would drop sharply to Rs 0.6 billion in 1984 and Rs 0.5
billion in 1985, essentially because of losses on its onshore operations,
unless its substantial exploration program onshore leads to sufficient increases



- 16 -
in production from new discoveries. This continues a persistent trend since
1977 and is attributable to high depreciation charges on a substantial explora-
tion program onshore. In order to keep the adequacy of ONGC's revenues under
surveillance, GOI would periodically carry out a review of the prices of crude
oil and natural gas, which will determine the level of prices required to
enable ONGC to meet its operating expenses and earn a return on its invested
capital sufficient to meet its debt service requirements, maintain adequate
working capital and finance a substantial portion of its proposed capital
expansion (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement). The first of these reviews
is expected to be carried out in 1981. In addition, ONGC would submit annually
to GOI and the Bank an economic and financial evaluation of the Bombay High
Project and of any subsequent major developments, which will indicate the level
of prices required to allow ONGC to earn a discounted cash flow (DCF) return
of at least 15% for the project and any such subsequent major developments
(Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement). ONGC's current DCF return on Bombay
High is 20%. It is expected that in the future ONGC will continue to be able
to finance 30-50% of its investment program from internal resources.
Benefits and Risks
50.       The benefits of the project are taken to be the savings in crude oil
and fuel oil imports resulting from the incremental production of crVde oil
and natural gas (totalling 450 million barrels of oil, 7.2 billion m of gas
and 1.4 billion tons of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) over the 21-year expected
lifespan of the project). Since the full benefits will only materialize after
the introduction of water injection (around 1983-84), ONGC would implement a
water injection program in accordance with the results of the ongoing detailed
reservoir studies carried out by ONGC (Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement).
Using total project cost (net of price contingencies,but with additional pro-
visions for water injection and well conversion in the future) as investment
cost, and assuming--conservatively--that international petroleum prices remain
constant in real terms at the current level of US$32 per barrel of oil, US$180
per thousand Nm of gas and US$300 per ton of LPG, and that operating cost
excluding depreciation will be US$1 per barrel of oil, the economic rate of
return (ERR) of the project is far above 100%. This result is less sensitive
to variations in costs or benefits than to delays in project implementation;
however, a one-year delay in production would still leave the ERR above 100%.
51.       The risks normally associated with hydrocarbon development projects
are compounded for offshore ventures by weather and sea conditions. However,
over the years the industry has developed techniques and technologies which,
if they do not eliminate risks, reduce them to an acceptable level. The
technical solutions selected by ONGC have proven reliable. ONGC's consultants
have sufficient experience in the design and construction of offshore and
onshore facilities, and experienced contractors will be selected for project
implementation. ONGC's staff is qualified and experienced in all the facets
of oil and gas production, processing and utilization; therefore, the risk of
errors in design and/or operation is minimal. Weather conditions, however,
are not predictable and may cause delays despite the precautions taken to



- 17 -
avoid major construction work offshore during the monsoon. The present
tightness of the market for processing equipment and jack-up drilling rigs
may also delay the completion of the project.
52.       There is also a risk that the central and southern areas of the
Bombay High field may not live up to ONGC's expectations, especially concern-
ing the reservoir performance under water injection. ONGC and its reservoir
consultant, CFP, have been careful and conservative in their approach to the
evaluation of the reservoir, and both have extensive experience in assessing
reservoirs and their production mechanisms. Their estimates are consistent
with the industry experience in similar oil and gas fields. During the devel-
opment of the central and southern areas, ONGC staff and its reservoir consul-
tants will monitor the behavior of the reservoir and will provide sufficiently
advanced warning of any problem for ONGC to take remedial actions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and ONGC, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
54.       Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement for relending proceeds
of the loan to ONGC would be an additional condition of effectiveness of the
loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 18, 1980






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTgD AV RAGES
LANID AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    MOST RECENT ESTIHATEMP
TOTAL           3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                                MOST RECENT       L0W INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        90.0     180.0             197.9                  894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     108.0/c     141.0/c  176. 0Lc           166.0                 842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POFULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)   434.9        547.6    643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      21.7              20.8                   39.1
POPU LATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    974.                   .
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 04.                      132.0       167.0    196.0              193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       308.0    353.0              409.6                 2350.4
POPUI.ATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.0        42.5      41.4              42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                        56.5        54.6      55.6              55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5         2.9       3.0               3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.5       2.0               2.2                    2.4
IRBAN                              2.5 d       3.3       3.3              3.9                     4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     43.0        40.0      35.0              37.4                   28.7
CRUDF DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.0        17.0      14.0              14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         2.9       2.4               2.6                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         12.0      16.9              15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0     103.0             101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0      91.0              92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0      50.0             49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        15.0      13.0              12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.0        22.0      18.0              17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.0         48.0      51.0              50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..        134.0       ..                ..                    52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      33.0              30.2                   42.4
URBAN                               ..        60.0      83.0              66.0                   62.1
RURAL                               ..         6.0      20.0              20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAI                               ..        18.0      20.0              17.7                   52.8
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0              71.3                   71.1
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0               ..                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5800.0/e   4890.0    3617.0            6322.7                  4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.0/e   5220.0   5675.0              9459.0                 2213.6
POPL'LATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.OLf    1629.0   1289.0             1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..              502.9
RIIRAL                              ..         ..        ..            10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                ..                    28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         ..        5.2
URBAN                              5.2         ..        4.8
RURAI                              5.2         ..        5.3
AVERACF NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TDTAL                              2.6         2.8
URBAN                               ..
RLIRAI.                             ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..
URBAN                               ..
RERAI                               .. 



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEIAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE y
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE fb   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRTMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         72.0      80.0                80.9                   98.6
MALE                  80.0         87.0       95.0               94.3                   99.2
FEMALE                40.0         55.0      64.0                66.7                   97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20.0         29.0      28.0               26.6                    55.5
MALE                  30.0         39.0       38.0               34.8                  -60.7
FEMALE                10.0         17.0       18.0               18.2                   49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)   8.0            6.0OA       ..                9.9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0        40.0       42.0               41.1                    34.6
SECONDARY                           16.0         17.0        ..               20.5                    28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0         33.0      36.0                40.9                   85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          1.0       1.3                1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0        21.0       24.0               25.8                   118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.1       0.5                2.4                    39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0      16.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            6.3       3.8                 ..                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    31.3         32.6      32.0               29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0      74.0                70.5                   51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0         11.0      11.0               11.6                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0         40.2      39.2                37.9                   39.1
MALE                                  57.1         52.3      51.3                51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                                27.9         27.1      26.2                23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.1                1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7           26.3/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7           48.9/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1            6.77h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6           17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      88.0              107.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..      76.0               86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                 ..                  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      40.7               46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      47.9                51.7                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
am.ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   llniess otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/    Solid fuel conversion factors revised, /d 1951-60;  /e 1962;  /f 1958;  /g 1967;  /h 1964-65.
April, 1980



ANNEX I
DEFINITION  OP SOCIAL INDIECATORS                                                           Page    3   of   5
Notes:  Although the data are Crust  frosuce  geealy               Ide  the mot aroh taiv  an   eiable,it theuld sine be unsed that they may sot ha inter-
nototolycsyu .h..ecus  ofth  lac  of stadard.e deftefIo    n   otpeue   ydiereet toit-n in cel1ertiag the dnta.  The data are,soe
theless, utefu  t  derrbe orders of -oiuntude, indicate teds, and  ha.c.ertee-  ertais major diff-esentes t-. 'on              -eoontfl.
The rote -sc   Arcua ac   (1)h  u-m  coutry group oi the subject rouctry mmd (2) a reuntry gras.p aith somewhat higher averge Ioose thea the country gra-p
of the objec  cot   (matr for "Capital SurplusilE 01ePer ter" gruspehers   'iddle I.ron  North AftI ins ad Middle test  is ches..n bemuse ~ of srne
coco-alcra  afictlel.     ta shereersu   greup does the..rae. ar.           ppletn weIghted aithmei.          masf hcmt   odico-  sod chew  only abtsa
isoot hl   fth   osrisi.   grap hs dta for that iedirtr                       ic  th   oes of ..a.etriem  -mog the indieters... depends on the evallbillt, of
deco sod Is not osifor-, o-tie mus be            rie   te reloting  -verag   of ..e tadi-ostr is  setber   Theeargsseony aeo  i   opaigsh   su
of ass indiotac at s sima smag she  . torey end esfereere grasps.
LAND1 AREA (thr..a.ud aq.ks.)                                                                 Po2s1etion  err f'hys.-nan-cpoaIl- dnotdeob    -sse   spaticing p0y-
Ttl-Total turface sees ooprtsisg land eree aed island waters                   .            cis  quoij-d  <en   se_oa  aco_   at utinest ee.
Agrtc-lnar.l -  otE     ea   giuesademue   eprrily erpe-raetly                              P. -eaOion  Ne-trc   Persa -. oplaio   dtotded by number of preoIttotg
ftr  ros  pstrs.majt .db   .cesgads. ort  li  falle; 1977 dan.t                   ml   n   eal   rdur   _urn, yrsct_i     nuss, d ..aslutatnre-
GNSP Pit CAPIfa (US05) - fliP Pc  -.yi,. esimate  at .......t maten prices. ca-                 oro ie  perdiSeseledi  Sea by tonal, ar-ti, a   ru.ra  di P .pitics (trs.
-ulated by tare  -sn into  method as World Bsh. Aslut (1976-7 Tbasis.)  1960,                 arbas  IeC earl)  .diddb p       hity gorootc nubre    sIta  beds
d 1978 d.t                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~battete   rnes.hsitlcre  ssrahlts:hmmnns!i pe     -aietlcrfe
ENERGYl CfNSUMPTION Pit CAPITA - A ..a c1onsumptien of c--eriul ene rgy I(ea                     b  a  les   n hysiis.  ,faratblishm.t. prolig priaripaily n..atadia
___________________________                                         care are sot Iolded.   stI hospitals, howver, tclode hewltb med m-di.el
an   igte,ptrlum    atrl  a  sdhdro,oooradgohemlee-                                cnesst permnetly staffed by ,             hsts   (bas by    meire1.. sai-tt,
tricity   Is. hu'ogrem   atca   qtasnprcaia   N                   90   n  197h                asrmr, midwife, ste.) ahirb offer is-ptriom    rnedno                   rcd
Asia.                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited range of medice1 facilities.   oe statistical Parpne  aebs  hePi-
calm  telade WlHSs prineipal generalco   peeiali ted  opltsln, sd rarsl
POPULATION ASS VITAL STATISTICiIo-
Total Pepulatio..  Bid-Year  imll Il ..    As of Jaly 1;IhO190md 19h                        AmamosprBootltd - Tat-l obe_ of odnisat... so or    shre
data,       i.  p.  ..t  ffrom  hospitlsl di,nded by the o-b-r of heAr.
thu  PoulaIon(pecen  oftonl)    Rti.of aarbor te total populsetonr;
differeos daftaitiona of orb. anaesmy affect r-p-rbilift  of data                       HOU1SIN
anog  outries~; 1960, 1970, sod 1978 data..                                                                                                              rba.De.tgnahl.pasn   e  hseod)-ttl  shn   n  rues1-
,Populaionr1         i.         111  p1111 Projections                   -dA house.hold omnim t.    a  gre-p ni isdivid                         I  ho abate lining qaset..s
PPopluioni   er20       urn  papuhaionpososs  era! bae   n Ni                                 d their mete meals.  A hoarder or lodgeemyormynt  eiclddt
ttlpopulation by ag  sdsesd rarmroiysafotility rts                                     she he....hold far  tnerl.tir1 purposes.
PI...t..     prmters foe mortality sates tompriss of three 1-el  ases                   AVeras.   abeo   emn   e   om   ete1  u.rban   ndrra   A-erageum
ing lfe. eaata.cyet birth Increas.ing with cn...tryt per nepite inooe                     hr a  p-r...s par roe.-        l  utes,  sdrra  sruld  --vetis...l
lan..l, sod femals lfe  _opecranoy  bteiltinig en77.1 year.  The para-                    damlliina  resperniney.  D.sllingsescladsssp              erarc nad
mtrforfrility ruts alas have thre  lvelasuin  dsrlie   I is....c.apied prts.
fertilt   accrd ing to tnom     -lve  -d p,,t f eily planning peeformso..               Atcm.n.     letict   (prtls   f   w_big)-otb                  sea.Aii4Clur   -
tEch cocetry Is th-t asigned one of these olds  -sbinotions of moctaliny                  Cestos  Awlg   iheeteirity"i lnig urter  as pertentege
an-d fertility teseda ice peojection purposes..o   otl  srban, adg. rsI dwelling it..rily
Sttisne.cy eseslation   In s stetisnry papslatian thes  Is no gewe  sines
she biosh rate is equal no the damsh erst, and also the age atracture rs-    EDUCATION
muien esn.tent.  This Is achieved  siy after fertility ratas deolise to                 Ad sated fErLlent Ratio
the replacemet level of unirt-st repro doeion,rats, shen sash game.estiar                 Prmrysoo-tsa.1  male and feae- Gross total, male and fosalt
.iawnrPlacs. tueimcl.The.taIonr                    oplto   si- wa                       aolme  of all ogem at the primarylelasetaefef reasto
ostimetd as the besiatof the  rjoe  tharatetistios of the   P p 1psieta                     primaryshe-asppolatinos; noeal1y includes thilde  agd 6-11
In thet year ZOS, and she runs of decline of fertility rare so raplan-                      years but mdjssted Pfordifferent losgths of primay eiato;for
non  lcal                                                                                     utnissnt   nvra  edanetionenslmssmy  -nosd lID  Peeceot
Yea  aarsosy   aplati-n Is  -ha.bd - The Year ah..  tatia...ry populatios                sine  sm  pupilssebtwahbv   heofcs   oo ee
sire bus been casobd.                                                                     Secoedees school- toa,maead _femal  - C                t.and am shon; secodary
Population          -t  .p1--  .rq                 kiatnsityh                                   a .. )ofdoration esquires  tn least fear year  ar aPproved primaryimtuson
Peesa.be.- Md-yar  oplaton  er  quae lloste  (10 hctaes)'~provides ges.r..                 .n..ona, or teacher tratitg Inetpu-till,frpu
Pe  n. b.eeianre            .ad - Compard as above for egeiu dturl le                   d    aslydo   2r   7paao  ae   orsodnerore   r   eee
O51T.                                                                                     Tonetiesal em1ole-    (enet at   ; esdary) V*- Ycaisoo  i-st~ti-on..
PPopulaion Age Stnr-ose   (prest  - Childreo (0-14 yprer), waking-age (15-teld nehea idscl,0  other programshish operte Indepa-
hA y_sa) * ad retIre1d (01 yours sod ooer) am peroestagen of mid-year peps-                    detyoasd         eatnsof sr ayisatittes
yastpopletossfor195-60,l9h-7i  ae  190-7.                              prtespee,din  level. ar    -.d-.   y            bh
Pesato   Oos  gae(ecnt.          ra _-8Annul growth retes of urban pops-              AMult litss    rte(.r..t  - Ieat   dlt   al  ta read sad  -rit.)
Clotios far190-65 tI%0-70, end 197i-78.                                                         seee        aeo  ntleatpclat.ionee   1yar                          nt
Trde Birthan  (ear sho...nd) - Annua  Ine births per thossead of aid-year                            P   .  ..o   ..    .tP, t                   .   5y...d..r
popolatior;' 1960, 1970. and 19 78 data.                                                CNOMT
Crue   eat  Ese  pe  thousand  - An.o. Ideotis pee the.....d of mid-year               Pessenas  Cas(a1        huedrrlts)-  smoe   aecmen    er
p     1960oa   lh, 1970,. ad 1970 danaP... cr   asn   este   ih   esn;eoae  gmbo sne,  beras  a
Irons RSerrduotion nets-Averageiosebecof daughtars a  oa   ill beer In                          iIay  eils
hritnlcpoans   sidi  h   sptsospeetaeaeti     t                                           Radio Re..eIVers  (as  thesase    eslio)-All types of reneio.r. f. oredc
ity rates; ....sily f iVs-yssr avragas sediag is 1960, lOll., sad 19771.                 hendsms  o  enra  p                  tle  e   hesasd a   a eis  salae   al dJ
famiy  Peouog-A tseors  Anna  (th Eusem.) - A-sul nuber of enreptare                    tesd receivers. in  sumnim  sad Is years when esgistretiss ofcdi    -
of birth-c..stro  davire .....   aueiemof nsriooo  faily plenniag pragra..                  wei.f  o    aefrtne   ecemymnb   oprbesnems
Famil  Pla...Ins - liners (eRodant of married  wms    ferestags      marid                     t ties ahdtishd.t  flina          y-ssietbg..p.b.i.. 
soe   f child-booting age (15-44 years) wh.o us  bicth-taetrs1 devices tO             TV .. genivs % (perh- h iee ....     ts)-  5sesocefrigeusit
almrid women is sam  age g-eap.                                                        gnrlpbi   e   bssdpplta;sene   siesd                                   esvr
is se1unbissad  is year raises esgPitetiom  atTVet   e   s  f t
PiOO AD  NUTRTITIONIldIS.r.h                                                                                                          g.rt-  f             t       i      d
I.d.  of Food Pr.d..ii- P.                                             ~~Sweser  iealnis   pe  esssg   seseide) - tSb-  nth  avragef etrolm
Oneuo  PadPodcio   prCaia (1969- 71 10) - I.do  ofpcsi msltof                               f "ditygenralt.sres  newpaert  inttn   sapsmdclP
yesdsotion nf sll god  csodne. ProdutIon attiude  see d and feed and                        lsna    ese    rmrl   urrriggneinw.T   sociee
isoncaeda  ya  hst.Comoite  crt  pimygnd   eg t                   agroa             t r  he "daily" if it appears at  ..eat fate time.      ni
instead of -uga) ahib are edibl  sodcoti  aurint  (e.g.  e fead                           TEn AeslA tenan    a    eaerTa      ae   sEs  ubro
te   r   nlde)   A;Uggrgt  prddatlan of eac h coo-toy Is boodo                       rces  eddoiu         qteyar,icaigammlssi   en-niea
nan,Iomalu    _9sgeproducerI prieaght; 1961-h5, 197D, sad 197: data.                        sdmbie          t.
Percuit.suel   fcerie(Psrost of reustemente  - Compated from
enrgy squlo-lst of se t feed supplies  _nsilebl  is Iesatry Per caPita                LABOE  PIECE
pe;r Amy.  dosileble supplies usePeita dometic Prodoet id, imperte last    ~ Ten.               aot     eo.shsd)-tsomeiyatv    eros   nldn
aeuns   td chages Ia crook   pe splie  solude anima  feed, m-de,                     are   hacssdoselydbt esoa.ding bs ie,suet.ec
qucrtieis used in food procsing, sd lasses in distribution.   esquir-                   Deiton inviuscnresteonnmabe;1960,  91  n
masts asre estimated by FAt bh...d so physiological snsfor -.-me  sent-                   1978i dens.  I    t  .   ..r.    ..t.. .                      6
seAsed    dsnibrte  f poyalation, sod allowing 10 perosot fur wsea                       siolue(ecet                    t e    orc   nf ns,  fnres..r.-.  1t-y bunting sod .
household level; 1961-hI, 1970,. sd 1977 data,                                              fishing as p-rnng  oftellbsr ferca,; I960, 1970 and 1978 data.
Pe sisa  _sply  of Prntein (scams  er dey  - Pro tai  nontmsi of pee caia               ootc    prrm)-       fao  fame In   iig   esrein                 auatrn
net ssyp1y of food pee day.  Bet suppl  o  food Is dsfiteedasboe   Re                      .ad se-teieity, aste rad gasspecntg  of toa   mbrfrm    90
quirensts fo  sll  oeIrin established by TITA provide for minium190tta1d 1978- data.
alloso  cfhigrm of cral.  p-otis pee dayen   0 gram  of osimo  sed                   Paricpio Ras(res)-tal sl,anfmle-Ptcitisc
ardo    . ace lwrthou those of 70 gram   of torel protein and  2grm                       prcenage  0g tona, male an  femal   poeaid  of all sges rsaente
aie..e . ytsie as  na           Idgsfa  the world,. proposed by PAO in the Third          P      tb,190 n"   10'at.Tee  t   l'sptipti                       easetcin
WorldPead  urve; 196-P1,1tThind 190pdas,                                     ag-seastrucure  f.the papulatio.ad lag time toed.  A fee esti-
dyeld     ream aMratan  puse .i.gam   pe  dy; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dateU.fomi   Deden..o Ratio -Stie of pupalation under I  end 65 sod ovac
Chid  (as  1-_)  Mortlity Rste (rer thousd) - Annual deaths per tho..a.d ti.n the ntal. labor f-ras.
assgrup1- jyse,. sohidlde  in this ag  grou..P; foe mas devaleping coun-
tries dais d-i-odfueilfo Ialt;16, 1970 sod 1977 data..                                  ISCOMF DTITRIBUTION
Perrentese of Private lnos.. (both In cash and hiod) -Ri..eii-d byariches
Lrif1mbpeveara) - Anecage .-uber at ysacs of life esaalinig                           I yarreet, richest 20 pret  pooresi 20 perceat, -rd poorest 40 y               orct
lieiretanoy'  blhli                                                                        of ha....bhlds.
asbirh; 1960, 1970ad 178 deta.
Tofan- Ourtoliry Sat (peP thousand) - Aenul1 deaths of i.fust. under sos year POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ofag  per the....ed floe births..Estimated AbsunePvet   nom    ee   (15  -m  cepittel  -  r                                                                         -nd r-1e -
Somber of people (toco1, orha., cud rurel) wth reasnbl, a...e.. ra safe                      AbcriteiPooerym iqa... diVet plus esetta  ass- sob             rmnsi   e
vter npply (inolodes crested turf.. ac .eters urnreae   hotsnotaitad                        at iseals._Il    ..t   itpd              r lI   o
do out bee  to  pedodsprpcrsssp acti..              .     r. oftedysReeioteadrurl1 P-1                         es  of p ...in  ubnad  ua)wo  s   a lsspo"
rucso-t umbr  .ofp psp1   roel,- urba,  aIdlorl  stIIced hyancr-ofter..aty    rb.1-    .d--   f-t.  o
of hnorauces  an  oss t-ase  by  'ser-bror  ysses          fthe use  :h.d          .1el~t                .     . of  .            hyn of   il, 1-b.8 ...
o  h docicces..d.utucduy iseaetaii.,



Pog,o 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEvELOPhENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978:  USS 180
b/                                                                                                          C/
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7. constant pricesl
US$ Bln.        %7                  1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70   1970/71-1974/75   197S/76-1977/78
GNP at Mer-et Prices                   117.08        100.0                       3.7                3.6                 3.7                2.8                 5.6
Gross Domestic Investment                28.28        24.2
Gross National S-isg                    28.11         24.0
Correst Accot.nt Ba..nce  d/             0.50          0.4
OUTUT.bOR L    FRCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
V.lue Added (at factsr cost)             Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.             7                Mil.         7.            US$            of National Average
Agric-ltsre                           24.5               46.6             130.0       72.1            188                 64
Industry                              11.8               22.3              20.2       11.2            582                199
Services               b163                              31.1              30.2       16.7            542                186
Totol/-verage                         52.6              100.0             180.4      100.0            292                100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                 !/
General Government                                              Centrsl Goverssent
R. Bln.      _          f   P                                   Rs,81n.            :  f GDP
1~97B/79     19/79  1974/75-1978/79                             17i77       1978/79   1974/75-1978/79
Current Receipts                     183.65        19.1          18.3                                 107.71       11.2          10.6
Current Expenditures                 177.26        18.4          16.7                                 108.99       11,3          10.1
Current Sorplus/Deficit                6.41         0.7           1.6                                 - 1.28       -0.1           0.5
Capital Espenditursa   f/             78.41         8.1           7.2                                  57.34        6.0           5.1
Internal Assistance (net) _/           8.15         0.8           1.4                                   8.15        0.8           1.4
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79   Sapte-ber 1978   Septe-ber 1979
(R. Billion outstanding at and of period)
Mosey ecd Quasi Mosey                121.4        198.4        220.3        254.7        308.9        370.4        445.6         398.5           473.7
Bank Cr-dit to Gover-eset (net)    52.6            87.3         95.3        101.1        110.2        134.7        153.9         139.5           161.7
Bank Credit to Co-ner.ia1 Sector   64.6           107.0        126.7        153.9        185.1        212.2        253.3         225.8           273.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                               Jansary 1979    J.an..ry 1980
M.oney and Quasi Mosey as 2
of GDP                             30.1         33.5         31.5         34.5         38.8        41.5         46.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0        139.7        174.9        173.0        176.6       185.8        185.8         185.3            224.0
Annuai p-rcentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                  7.7         20.2         25.2        - 1.1          2.1          5.2           -            0.4            20.9
Bank Credit to Go-er nset (net)    10.8            12.3          9.2          6.1          9.0         22.2         14.3          16.9            15.9
Bank Credit tO Com-rci.l Sc-rt   19.4              22.6         18.4         21.5         20.3         14.6         19.4          15.6            21.3
*/  The per capita GNP estite is at market prices.  calculated by the conversion te.hniiqe used in the World Bank Atla., 1979.
All other conversio-s  to dollars in this table are et the  -verage eachange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/  Qoick Ectimatec.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/  World Bank estinatee; not hecessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Tranofera between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loots and advancee to third parties have bees netted oct.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of S
BALANCE OF PAYTBNTS                    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 h  1979/0 h          I8ZRCH&NDISE UPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
US6  ln.       %
Exports of Goods                        5,753      6,315       6,976      7,800           Engineering Goods             671         11
imports of Goods                      -5,928      -7,188      .8,488    -11,000           Te                            420          7
Trade Balance                          -  175     -  873      -1,512     -3,200           Gems                          499          8
NFS (not)                                 379        692         882      1,050           Clothing                      378          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                          204      - 181       -630    -2,150                     Products              319          5
Jute Manufactures             251         4
Interest Paymnts (net)  i                -182      -  89         130        400           Iron Ore                      270          5
Other Factor Payments (net)                -                      -         -             Cotton Textiles               248          4
Net Transfers   J/                        695      1,077       1,000      1,000           Sugar                         224          4
-                                                      O~~~~~thers                 2.649         45
Balance on Current Account                717        87          500       -750                                        ,
Total                       5.929       10
Official Aid
Diaburasments                        1,955      1,628      1,695       1,870           ZETERNNL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1979
Amortization                          -560       -645        -702    -   687                                              US9 billion
Transactions with If0                    -337       -330        -158        -             Outatanding *nd Diabursed                 15,5
All Other Itea                           -200        616         199    - -183            Undisburaed                                5.2
Outstanding, including                   20.7
Increase in Reserves C-)               -1,575     -2,076      -1,534    -   250               Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               3,747      5,823       7,357      7,607                                           h/l/
Not Reserves (end year)  k/             3,276      5,668       7,357      7,607           DEBT SIRVICE PATIO FOR 1978/79        15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Mteril                                                                   IBRD/ID& LENDING. DECB(8ER 31. 1979
Imports                                 1,581      1,811       2,043      4,050                                               USS million
of which: Petroleum                 1,581       1,811      2,043       4,050                                           IBID            IDA
Exports                                    37         32          24        -             Outstanding and Disbursed       689             4,286
of which: Petrole,as                    21         18        n.a.        -            Undisbursed                      614             2,621
Outstanding, including        1,303             6,907
Undiabursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Rs 1.00 - US$0.133333
Kid-December 1971 to end-June 1972    3 US$1.00 - Re 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-Detember 1978                USS1.00 - Rs 8.188
Rs 1,00 - US$0.122
End-Decasber 1979                       : US$1.OO - Re 7.907
Re 1.00 - U050.126
h/  Estimated.
1/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of 7MW credit.
/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                             1,163.2
64 Credits fully disbursed                                    3,803.4
342-IN     1972   India    Education                  --        12.0    4.82
378-IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                --          8.0    1.59
390-IN     1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --           55.0    3.75
456-IN     1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing                       13.0    6.80
1011-IN     1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0         -       16.85
482-IN     1974   India    Karnataka Dairy            --        30.0   19.56
502-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD        --        83.0   32.62
521-IN     1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy            --        27.7   14.36
522-IN     1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --           16.4    6.17
526-IN     1975   India    Drought Prone Areas        --        35.0    4.93
1079-IN     1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer          109.0      --       4.08
1097-IN     1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI           95.6       --       2.95
532-IN     1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation             --        45.0    5.97
541-IN     1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development            --         34.0   10.86
562-IN     1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD           --         24.0    3.79
572-IN     1975   India    Rural
Electrification I       --         57.0    5.82
585-IN     1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                --        40.0   19.62
598-IN     1975   India    Fertilizer Industry        --       105.0   42.58
604-IN     1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --          150.0   68.39



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN     1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0     1.97
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    11.82
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --     96.17
1260-IN     1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0        --     19.74
1273-IN     1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0        --     23.55
1313-IN     1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0           -      23.24
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0          -        8.85
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   26.06
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            -          20.0   12.71
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0   79.85
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   11.30
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          --          4.0    0.00
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries          14.0       --     14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    7.36
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   15.63
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.04
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --     22.74
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   42.14
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0    9.96
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation          --         58.0   41.35
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII           80.0       --     21.93
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   87.54
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         -          87.0   43.75
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.39



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --      24.65
1549-IN      1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      88.13
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --           117.6   94.22
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power        --        200.0  167.16
806-IN      1978   India    Jammu-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.88
808-IN      1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation         --        85.0   74.22
815-IN      1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   16.47
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II          -          16.0   15.77
1592-IN     1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0          --      59.39
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy             --        150.0  138.16
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  192.10
843-IN      1979   India    Haryana Irrigation         --       111.0   69.23
844-IN      1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  166.07
848-IN      1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   31.58
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   26.31
862-IN      1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   20.96
871-IN      1979   India    NCDC                       --        30.0   20.79
1648-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  50.0       --      50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  177.14
889-IN     1979   India    Punjab Irrigation           --       129.0  115.98
899-IN      1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   47.59
911-IN      1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  172.86
925-IN      1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   21.39



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN      1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0      161.06
1743-IN*    1979   India       Thal Fertilizer         250.0       -        250.00
963-IN      1979   India      Inland Fisheries                   20.0       20.00
954-IN      1979   India      Maharashtra
Irrigation II                  210.0      198.69
961-IN      1979   India      Gujarat Community
Forestry                        37.0       34.93
981-IN      1980   India      Population II                      46.0       46.00
1003-IN      1980   India      Tamil Nadu Nutrition               32.0       32.00
1004-IN      1980   India      U.P. Tubewells                     18.0       17.82
1011-IN      1980   India      Gujarat Irrigation II             175.0      175.00
1027-IN      1980   India      Singrauli Thermal II              300.0      300.00
1012-IN      1980   India      Cashewnut                          22.0       22.00
1028-IN      1980   India      Kerala Agricultural
Extension                       10.0       10.00
1033-IN*    1980   India       Calcutta Urban
Transport                       56.0       56.00
1034-IN*    1980   India       Karnataka Sericulture              54.0       54.00
1046-IN      1980   India      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewer                       80.0       80.00
1843-IN      1980   ICICI      Industry DFC XIII       100.0                100.00
1887-IN*    1980   India       Farakka Thermal
Power                 25.0                 25.00
1053-IN*    1980   India       Farakka Thermal
Power                          225.0      225.00
Total                                   2,653.8  8,511.6
of which has been repaid                           64.4
Total now outstanding                   1,626.3  8,447.2
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   120.3         13.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/    1,612.8  8,447.2
Total undisbursed (excluding*)            576.3  3,348.9
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -         0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -         0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.6       0.4        1.0
1964        Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8        1.3      13.1
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3       1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.1       0.1        1.2
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1       3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                             6.6         -        6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0        1.2       5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.            7.5        1.1       8.6
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS             61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                              19.1         -        19.1
Cancelled                            6.2        1.3        7.5
Now Held                            29.9        8.5       38.4
Undisbursed                         10.5        1.1       11.6



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to US$538 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
August 31, 1980 totalled US$131 million, representing an increase of about
51% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,925
million as of August 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843   Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



Page 7 of 1
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourag, tL
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Develonment Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Janmu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 31, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a
change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in completion of
engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project
preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the
sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been
made to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 1046    Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of this project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Detailed construction programs have been prepared for rural schemes, and pre-
paration of tender documents for urban schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway though disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954    Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit
of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011   Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fully disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 712    Madhva Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028   Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit
of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where regu-
lar extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the system
itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite
Agricultural Extension Project, important early administrative and financial
steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation of the reor-
ganized extension system. In Kerala, project implementation has just begun.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.



ANNEX II
Page  5 -of 18
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961    Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects were designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages,
and supply raw materials to cottage industries. The projects provide for
large-scale tree plantations on public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033   Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 963    Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries, improve-
ments to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the establish-
ment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980, and the
initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of State
Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project monitoring
units, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.        US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027   Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing
Date: March 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1887   Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and        US$225 million credit of June 26, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053   December 10, 1980 (expected); Closing Date:  March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/Credit
1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been
carrying out construction and operation of these power stations. Loan 1549
is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata Electric
Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast load growth
in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects are pro-
gressing satisfactorily. Although the transmission project financed by Credit
604 suffered delays in preparation of technical specifications and evaluation
of bids for higher sophisticated equipment, the project is now progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
financed by the Rural Electrification Corporation. There are now thirteen
State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared with six at
the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due principally
to the need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to interna-
tional competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 provides continued support to
the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program, and is helping to
finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs, including
the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an early stage
of implementation, and procurement is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.
Cr. No. 981    Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of mothers
and children and the lowering of fertility. Early implementation works have
started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012   Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10,
1980; Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh
and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003   Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million-credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding
according to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004   Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is underway on this project.
Cr. No. 1034   Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: January 31, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding well with encouraging progress
in all components.



ANNEX K
Page  1
INDIA
SECOND BOMBAY HIGH OFFSHORE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
One year
(b) The agency that has prepared the project
Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC)
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project
June 1980/June 1980
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
June 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
October 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
December 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOI to make satisfactory arrangements for the provision of
funds to ONGC should ONGC's funds be inadequate to carry
out its investment program (paragraph 40);
(b) ONGC to continue, during implementation of the project,
to use consultants for certain activities, with qualifi-
cations, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 45);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) GOI to carry out periodically review of the prices of
crude oil and natural gas, which would determine the level
of prices required to enable ONGC to meet its operating
expenses and earn a return on its invested capital suffi-
cient to meet its debt service requirements, maintain
adequate working capital and finance a substantial por-
tion of its proposed capital expansion (paragraph 49);
(d) ONGC to submit annually to GOI and the Bank an economic
and financial evaluation of the Bombay High Project and
of any subsequent major developments, which would indicate
the level of prices required to allow ONGC to earn a DCF
return of at least 15% for the project and any such subse-
quent developments (paragraph 49); and
(e) ONGC to introduce an adequate and timely water injection
program for the Bombay High reservoir, as determined by
the findings of the on-going detailed reservoir studies
being carried out by ONGC (paragraph 50).






X  o  t  '  -                                                                               l            ;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k,o
\ ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2s _ f
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k
j             !            ,          .2          .          *z .o    ,,,;>5s,                                          '\\                                 Z 4
0>
: \     O                                               * zg                                                   *    m              \    3 S                  |* //
_                                                            /~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-                   ' )       -1/  \(3  gO  /   I 
l                                                             Jb   m
0~~~~~~~~0
A2tZlttlt-t  ,  ---    --   -.............  4   4  .......    _  ' *  X g  Z  s  t  
t----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rn1



