OFFICIAL           LOAN NUMBER VI7-<IN
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER I 26IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                          i, 1980,
between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Oil and Natural Gas
Commission witn the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Oil and Natural
Gas Commission the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Oil and
Natural Gas Commission;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Commission" means the Oil and Natural Gas Commission
established under the Oil and Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959 of
the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Commission of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Commission pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Ag iement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
four hundred million dollars ($400,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement,
the Borrower shall cause the Commission to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Commission to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
the Commission under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Commission, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which
shall, inter alia, provide that the Commission shall: (i) pay to
the Borrower interest at an effective rate of ten and three-
fourths per cent (10-3/4%) per annum on the principal amount so
relent and withdrawn by the Commission and outstanding from time
to time; (ii) the Commission shall repay to the Borrower the
principal amount so relent over a period of not more than 20 years
from the date of this Agreement, including therein a period of
grace of five years; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk shall be
borne by the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Commission will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
out of the Project or for the carrying out of the Commission's
other investments, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide the Commission or cause the Commission to be
provided with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.


﻿-5-
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdiv4sion thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, from time to time on
the basis of, inter alia, the report furnished to it by the
Commission pursuant to Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement,
carry out a review of the price of crude oil and natural gas to
the Commission which shall determine the price levels needed to
enable the Commission, under ccnditions of efficient operation, to
meet its operating expenses and earn a return on its invested
capital sufficient to cover its debt service requirements, main-
tain adequate working capital and finance a substantial portion of
its proposed capital expansion.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Commissionshall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make improbable that the Commission will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Commission or the Borrower, or any other authority
having jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolu-
tion or disestablishment of the Commission or for the suspension
of its operations;
(d) a change shall have been made in the Borrower's Oil
and Natural Gas Commission Act, 1959 which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of
the Commission;


﻿-6-
(e) a subsidiary company shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Commission, if such creation, acquisition or
taking over would materially and adversely affect the conduct of
the Commission's business or its financial condition; and
(f) a default shall have occurred in the performance by
the Commission or by the Borrower of any of their obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (d), (e) and (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and the Commission; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section, 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and the Commission.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Commission, and is legally binding upon the
Commission in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Commission and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the Commission in accordance
with its terms.


﻿-7-
Section 6.03. The date                           , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi--
tions,
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary in the
Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs of the Bor-
rower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
c-t  '   Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Construction and            400,000,000       100% of foreign
installation of                              expenditures
platforms and                                and 100% of
connecting sub-sea                           local expendi-
pipelines                                    tures (ex-
factory)
TOTAL        400,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $5,000,000 may be made In respect of
expenditures on oil pumps, compressors and generators on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
September 30, 1980.
4.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the
Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the
Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which comprises phase IV and advance action of
phase V of the Borrower's offshore development program, consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:
Development Drilling Drilling of about sixty-four direc-
tional development wells.
Part B:
Well Platforms Construction and installation of about
fifteen well platforms.
Part C:
Processing Platform-Bombay High South Construction and
equipping of a processing platform with an approximate capa-
city of 180,000 Bbl/d.
Part D:
Living Quarters Platform Construction of a living quarters
platform.
Part E:
Subsea Pipelines Installation of approximately 133 km of
subsea floW lines.
Part F:
Shore Facilities Installation of an additional crude storage
tank and an additional train of crude stabilization facility,
along with necessary utilities.


﻿- 12 -
Part G:
Telemetry and Telecontrol Extension of telemetry and tele-
control facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each January 1 and July 1
beginning July 1, 1986
through   July 1, 2000                     13,335,000
On January 1, 2001                              13,285,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.0f), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                      1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                             2.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                      5.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                      7.40%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                      8.30%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                      9.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /1       day of        198 02.
FOR SECRETARY


