Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.  10513-EGT Type:  (SAR)                       Report No. 10513-EGT
GOLLADAY, / X32850 / H8 050/ MN2PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROJECT
JUNE 2, 1992
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURkENCY EQUIVALENCES
Currency Unit = Egyptian Pounds (LE)
US$1.00 = LE 3.30& (As of February 15, 1992)
LE 1.00 = US$ 0.30
SDR1 = US$1.372 (As of May 15, 1992)
US$1 = SDRO.729
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       African Development Bank
EDCD        Endemic Diseases Control Department
epg      eggs per gram
IDA       International Development Association
LE      Egyptian Pound
NSCP       National Schistosomiasis Control Programme
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SRP       Schistosomiasis Research Project
USAID       United States Agency for.international Development
US$       United States Dollar
Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30



FOR OMFICIL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPr
NATION4AL SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page no.
BASIC DATA SHEEr                                  .................. i
CREDr AND PROJECT SU'AMARY                                                . . .   ii
I. INTRODUCTION ........................................... 1
H. BACKGROUND ........................................... 2
The Health Situation in Egypt                                    ..                                2
Life Expectancy and Mortality ............................. 2
Morbidity ......................................... 2
National Health Policies                                  ..                               3
Overall Perfornance of the Health Sector ....................                              3
Schistosomiasis .......................................... 4
Control Strategies               ...................................  5
The Egyptian National Schistosomiasis Control Programme ............ 6
The Egyptian Schistosomiasis Control Strategy                         .         .          7
Role of IDA ............................................ 8
Lessonsfrom Earlier Operations                                    ..                               9
Aims of the Present Project                  .......................                               9
II. DESCRIPTON OF THE PROPOSED OPERATION                                           ...  10
EXpansion of the Program into the Nile Delta                             ..                       11
Consolidation of Existing Control Activities                           ..                         11
Strategic Planning and Modernization of the Program    .................  11
Operational Plan             .....................  12
Screening Methods                  ..................... 12
The Intervention Strategy .....................1.    l
Snail Control    ...........                                  .......... 14
Innovative Interventions.     .............................. 15
Institutionai Strengthening               ..16
Strategic Planning and Decentralizati      ..16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal nission which visited Egypt in Febuaqy, 1992. The mission was staffed by Mr.
Fredrick L. Golladay (Principal Human Resources Economist and Mission Leader), Dr. Bruno M.AJ. Oryseels (Parsitologif.k), and
Mr. Subhendu Sengupta (Management Consultant,. This report was edited and processed by Stephanie A. Soutouras (Editorial
Assstant). The Peer Reviewer was Dr. 8etnhard H. Liese, Director, Health Services Department. The tesponsible Regional Vice
President was Mr. Caio Koch-Weser, the responsible Director was Mr. Ram K. Chopra, MENA Country Depalment H, and the
responsible Division Chief was Mr. Douglas H. Keare, Population and Human Resounes Operations Division. Tbe Memotmndum
of the President was produced by Patricia Maughan-Color. (Operations Assisant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page no.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION .........................                                 17
cost of the Project         ....................... 17
Swmmary of Project Costs ........................ 17
Basis of Cost Estimates .........................                  is
Contingency Allowances        ................... 18
Foreign Exchange Component ......................... 19
Recurrent Costs .........................                          19
Project Financing           ....................... 20
Management and Implementation        ................... 20
Management Structure         .................... 20
Organization and Management of the Project         ..              21
Maintenance      .................        ..................... 21
Procurement                          ..    21
Status of Preparation ...............         .................. 23
Disbursements                         ..    24
Accounts and Audits                      ..                        25
Program Affordability                    ..                        25
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, RISK ASSESSMENT AND SOCIAL IMPACT  ... ... 25
Control of Schistosomiasis in the Delta Region         ..                26
The Modernization and Strengthening of Ongoing Control Activities .... ..... 27
Strengthening the Capacity of the Ministry of Health to Carty
out Strategic Planning and Program Management ............... 27
Risks  .      .............................................. 27
Social Impact of the Project ................................. 29
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............... 30
ANNEX 1 COMPARISON OF HEALTH INDICATORS FOR LOWER-MIDDLE
INCOMECOUNTRIES ............................... 31
ANNEX 2 A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SCHISTOSOMIASIS  ............... 32
ANNEX 3 THE PROJECT AREA                             ..     39
ANNEX 4 PROTOCOLS FOR OPERATIONAL RESEARCH  ................ 41
ANNEX 5 DETAILED COST TABLES .............................. 55
ANNEX 6 ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................................ 61
ANNEX 7 PROJECT ORGANOGRAMS ............................. 63
ANNEX 8 PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS ..................... 65
ANNEX 9 DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE ...........              ..      ............... 66
ANNEX 10 IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ..                                .        .67
ANNEX 11 USE OF THE PESTICIDE, NICLOSAMIDE, TO CONTMROL
SCHISTOSOMIASIS ................................ 68
ANNEX 12 SUPERVISION SCHEDULE                           ..                      70
MAP NO. IBRD 22206



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPr
NATIONAL SCHISTOSONMASIS CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Indicator                                                           Data Years
Per capita income                                         US$600        1988-90
Average annual growth of population (percent)                 1.8   (1989-2000)
Population (millions)                                          51          1989
62          2000
86          2025
Hypothetical size of stationary population (millions)         120
Age structure of the population (percent):
0 - 14 years                                                39.2          1939
24.4         2025
15 - 64 years                                               56.5          1989
67.6         2025
Crude birth rate (per 1,000 population)                        32          1989
Crude death rate (per 1,000 population)                        10          1989
Women of childbearing age as a percentage of all women         48          1989
Total fertility rate                                          4.2          1989
3.1         2000
Assumed year of reaching a net reproduction rate of 1        2015
Married women of childbearing age using contraception          38          1987
(percent)
Population per physician                                      770          1984
Births attended by health staff (percent)                      24          1985
Babies with low birth weights (percent)                         7          1985
Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)                  68          1989
Daily calorie supply (per capita)                            3213          1988
Percentage of age group enrolled in primary education          90          1988
Percentage of females enrolled in primary education           79          1988
Percentage of age group enrolled in secondary education        69          1988
Percentage of females enrolled in secondary education         58           1988
Source: Tables 1, 26, 27, 28 and 29, 'World Development Indicators", World Development Report, 1991, New
York: Oxford University Press, 1991.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF ECJYPT
NATIONAL SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                  Arab Republic of Egypt
BENEFICIARY:               Ministry of Health, Endemic Diseases Control Department
AMOUNT:                    SDR 19.60 Million (US$26.84 million equivalent)
TERMS:                     Standard, with 35 years maturity
PROJECT DESCRIPI'ON:  The proposed project would support the development of a
sustainable national program to control schistosomiasis,
Egypt's most important parasitic disease. The proposed project
has three specific objectives: (i) to extend the National
Schistosomiasis Control Programme (NSCP) to five
governorates in the Eastern and Westem regions of the Nile
Delta; (ii) to modernmze and rehabilitate the existing program
in Middle and Upper Egypt, and the Suez Canal area in order
to increase its efficiency ai.d effectiveness; and (iii) to support
operational research and ztrengthen management of the
Ministry of Health's Ende - Diseases Control Department
(EDCD) in order to further i- rease operating efficiency and
to control operating costs. The credit would finance three
categories of expenditure: (i) laboratory equipment, vehicles,
drugs, molluscicides, consulting services and training for the
governorates being added to the national program; (ii)
replacement of obsolete and depreciated laboratory equipment
and vehicles; retraining of staff; and purchase of drugs and
pesticides for governorates included earlier in the national
program; and (iii) consultancy services, computers, vehicles
and research funds to strengthen the central agency charged
with planning and executing the program.
BENEFITS AND RISKS:    The project would enable the NSCP to increase its coverage by
17 million people and thereby to reduce the burden imposed by
the disease.  It would permit the EDCD  to introduce
modifications to the program which would ensure r,re
sensitive and less costly screening, more efficient treatnr.;ni,
and more cost-effective control of transmission through
targeted (or "focal") snail control and environmental
intervention. Capturing the full benefits from improvements
in program design and technical change would require re-
training and re-deployment of staff, particularly in the snail
- ii -



control program which currently employs about 6,700 people.
The project would strengthen the capacity of the EDCD to
analyze policy options, prepare strategic plans, carry out
operational research, and operate information and management
systems for the national program. The project is designed to
be implemented over a six-year period; this period has been
chosen to allow the EDCD both to develop initiatives to
imiprove the program and to introduce them into routine
operations.
This project presents no significant technical ris'  The
effectiveness of diagnostic procedures and diug therapy is wt. -
established; molluscicides have been used widely since 1969
without adverse consequences. The long-term success of the
program will require sustained financial support from the
Government of Egypt. The political urgency of controlling the
disease may decline as the project lowers morbidity and
mortality rates.   However, a national health education
campaign has mobilized popular support for the program. The
project would require foreign exchange for the purchase of the
drug, praziquantel.  The annual expenditure for the drug
during the maintenance phase is estimated to be about $3.3
million (1991 prices). The patent for praziquantel will expire
before the close of the credit, allowing greater competition and
perhaps local drug production, either of which would lead to
further price reductions and cost savings.
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES: (In US$ million)
Component                                              Local  Foreign  Total
Expanding the coverage of the National Schistosomiasis   2.87    20.86  23.73
Control Programme into the Nile Delta
ModerniizLng and rehabilitating the National Schistosomiasis  2.12    13.44   15.56
Control Programme
Strengthening the management capacity of the Department of  0.61  0.14   0.75
Endemic Disease Control
Total base costs                                         5.60    34.44  40.04
Price contingencies                                      0.39     2.R2   3.21
Total project costs                                      .99    37.26  425
- iii -



- iv -
FINANCING PLAN: (In US$ millions)
Local              Foreign              Total
Government                        5.99                   --                5.99
Co-financier                        --                10.42               10.42
IDA                                  --              26.84                26.84
Total Financing                   5.99                37.26               43.25
Note: Price contirgencies between negotiations (May 15, 1992) and the end of project
implementation are estimated at US$3.21 million equivalent, or 8.0 percent of base costs.
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS: (In US$ millions)
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Annual              4.75   3.95   4.10   4.00   3.90   3.23   2.91
Cumulative          4.75   8.70  12.80  16.80  20.70  23.93   26.84
-|  iS )etails may not add to totals due to rounding.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NATIONAL SCHISTOSOMIASIS CONTROL PROJFCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Govemment of Egypt has applied to the International Development Association
(IDA) for a credit of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 19.6 million to be used to expand the
coverage and improve the efficiency of its National Schistosomiasis Control Programme (NSCP).
Schistosomiasis is Egypt's most widespread and most burdensome parasitic disease.Y The
infection is transmitted by fresh water snails that are oftei: found in the irrigation canals and
drains of rural Egypt. The population of the species of snail responsible for the transmission
of the most severe form of the disease has increased significantly in the Nile Delta since the
completion of the High Dam at Aswan.
2.    The proposed project aims to develop a nation-wide program to control schistosomiasis
that can be financed and operated independently by the Government of Egypt. Egypt has relied
on foreign assistance to finance the five schistosomiasis control projects it has undertaken over
the past 25 years. The first of these projects was launched in 1969 with the assistance of the
Government of Germany and covered the Fayoum govemorate. Four subsequent operations
extended control activities to governorates in Upper and Middle Egypt and the Suez Canal area.
A sixth project was approved recently by the African Development Dank (ABD) and is expected
to become effective in July 1992.
3.    The proposed credit would finance three initiatives. First, it would assist in the extension
of the NSCP to the five governorates tlat remain uncovared. These governorates lie in the
Eastern and Western regions of the Nile Delta and are inhabited by about 17 million people; at
least 5 million of these people currently are infected by the parasite. Second, the credit would
help the Govemment of Egypt to improve operations of the NSCP in areas supported by earlier
projects. These older control programs currently serve about 15 million people. The project
would permit the NSCP to introduce modem diagnostic and treatment technologies, and to
strengthen operational management. Third, the credit would support a program of operational
research and management strengthening aimed at increasing efficiency and reducing operating
costs over the longer term. This component is expected to lead to the development of better
surveillance, more sensitive diagnosis, and more effective treatment; these advances would in
turn enable the NSCP to control morbidity at a cost that is affordable to the Government of
Egypt.
Annex 2 briefly describes the disease, its transmission and the options for its control.



-2-
U. BACKGROUND
The Health Situation in Egypt
4.    ltfe Expectancy and Montality. The life expectancy at birth for Egyptians in 1990 was
about 61 years, which represents a gain of about 15 years since 1960.2Y The infant mortality
rate was about 68 deaths per thousand live births in 1990 compared with more than 150 thirty
years earlier. E-gypt's life expectancy ranked thirtieth among thirty-seven lower-middle income
countries at the close of the 1980s. At the same time, its infant mortality rate ranked twenty-
seventh among this same group of cour'ries. (Annex 1 provides comparative health indicators
for Egypt and other lower-middle income countries.)
5.    Although Egypt has achieved significant improvements in the health of its citizens over
the past three decades, the life expectancy of its people remains nearly a dozen years less than
that of persons born in economically advanced countries. The diminished health prospects of
the Egyptian people result primarily from high death rates among infants and small children: if
the mortality rate for children under the age of five years were brought down to that prevailing
in the advanced economies, life expectancy would be nearly seven years greater. High death
rates among children can be traced primarily to the frequt;ncy of diarrheal disease and acute
respiratory infections. The Demographic and Hea'th Survey (1988)2' found that mothers
recalled that one child in six had experienced an episode of acute diarrhea during the previous
week, and that more than 40 percent of all children under the age of five had suffered from at
least one episode of acute diarrhea in the previous six months. The same study discovered that
a quarter of children under five and nearly a fifth of adults had suffered from a severe
respiratory infection during the preceding month. National programs have been implemented
to encourage the use of oral rehydration salts to treat acute diarrhea and a program has also been
launched to improve the diagnosis and treatment of bacterial pneumonia. The vaccine-
preventable diseases of childhood have not contributed significantly to mortality in recent years,
primarily because of the success of the national immunization program, which has now reached
over 90 percent of children with at least one immunization and about a quarter with all of the
recommended immunizations.
6.    Morbidity.  Very little effort has been devoted to the study of morbidity in Egypt,
especially among adults. The principal sources of information are the reports of the activities
of health care institutions vhich are submitied periodically to the Ministry of Health. However,
these reports refer on' tc those persons who have sought medical care, not to the entire
population. Moreov'  ;e diagnoses reported by health facilities often are based on superficial
clinical assessmentz   iealth problems, m.. 'ng accuracy of the diagnoses uncertain. The
3'    All statistics cited in this section are drawn from various issues of 7he World Development Report, unless noted
otherwise.
F     Egypfian National Population Council and the Institution for Resource Development. Demographic and Health
Survey 1988. Cairo, October 1989.



- 3 -
statistics assembled by the Ministry of Health suggest that the leading causes of morbidity are
accidents (for males) and complications of childbirth (for females). Diseases of the digestive
system rank sccond for males and females, and infections of the respiratory system.rank third
for males and fourth for females. The chronic and degenerative diseases of late adulthood
impose relatively modest demands on the health care system, in large measure because older
adults form a small fraction of the total population in a co:intry with a very high rate of
population growth. Table 1.1 summarize; the activities of government health facilities by
complaint.
7.    National HeaLth Policies. Egypt has assigned high priority to health since the formation
of the republic in 1962. National health policies initially sought to ensure everyone access to
curative care provided by physicians. The Government, therefore, invested heavily in the
education of physicians and the construction of health c- - fa "-ties. However, beginning in the
mid-1980s the Government began to reallocate healtn . )urcrs to programs of preventive
medicine and rural health care, and to seek to reduce relia!.q3e on physicians and hospitals.
Bilateral donors supported this redirection of health policy with substantial financial and technical
assistance to programs to promote child survival and maternal health. ' 1991, 47 percent of
the national investment budget for health was assigned to preventive health care activities such
as immunization, maternal health care, fanily planning, school health, and health education.
Policy documents were published in 1973, 1980 and 1986 that declared the Government's
commitment to lowering the rate of population growth to less than 2.1 percent a year by the
close of the century. A National Population Council was established in 1984 in order to promote
family planning.
8.    The Government's health priorities have been reflected in its investments in the sector.
Between 1960 and 1990 Egypt increased the number of rural health units from 733 to more than
5,300. Over the same period it expanded the number of physician, by a factor of nine--from
11,500 to 103,400. As a result of this unusually aggressive program of investments, no
Egyptian lives more than 5 kilometers from a government health facility and more than 80
percent of the population lives within 1.5 kilometers of one. By 1990, a physician had been
trained for every 550 persons. This ratio contrasts with an average of about 2,300 for the entire
group of lower-middle income countries.
9.    OveraU Pt 4 ormance of the Health Sector. While the health of Egyptians nas improved
significantly over the past thirty years, the gains have not been commensurate with the
commitment of national resources to the sector, and are not impressive when contrasted with the
accomplishments ot other lower-middle income countries. These achievements appear even less
dramatic when one :<cognizes that many of the other services that are expected to contribute to
improvements in health have been widely accessible. For example, more than 90 percent of
villages have already been provided with a safe source of drinking water. All Egyptian villages
have been supplied with electricity. A substantial majority of householls have a private latrine.



-4-
Table 1.1: Leading Causes of Morbidity
Disease Category            Percentage
Males
1  Accidents                         29.0
2  Digestive system diseases         24.6
3  Respiratory system diseases       11.4
4  Cardio-vascular diseases           8.6
5  Urogenital system diseases         8.1
6  Other causes                      18.3
Total                          100.00
Females
1  Pre-natal, natal, puerperium      31.0
2  Digestive system diseases         16.9
3  Accidents                         13.3
4  Respiratory system diseases        9.6
5  Urogenital system diseases         9.3
6  Other Causes                      19.8
Total                          100.00
Source: Statistical Services, Ministry of Health, 1991
10.   The disappointing performance of the health care system is due primarily to problems of
staff morale and productivity; shortages of specific items of equipment; scarcities of essential
.drugs; and, most importantly, defects in the design of programs. A lack of facilities for the safe
disposal of sullage water in densely populated rural areas also contributes to ill health, both by
creating ponds of insanitary wastes and by prompti;.g people to rely on more convenient canals
and drains to bathe themselves, wash kitchen utensils and launder clothes. In addition, the most
common occupations in rural Egypt--farming and fishing--require close contact with surface
water that often is polluted and/or infested with the vectors that transmit disease.
Schistosomiasis
11.   Schistosomiasis (known also as "bilharzia") is Egypt's leading parasitic infection. It is
caused by fluke worms about 1 centimeter long, called schistosomes. Two species of the
parasite are found in Egypt. Schistosoma haematobium lives in the blood vessels around the



- 5 -
bladder and causes urinary schistosomiasis. Schistosomiasis mansoni lives in the venula around
the intestines and produces intestinal and hepatosplenic schistosomiasis.
12.   The life cycle of the parasite includes a stage during which it must invade species of
freshwater snails commonly found in Egypt. Adult schistosomes typically survive for three to
five years, but some live more than twenty years. The adult schistosomes mate and the pairs
then produce three to five hundred eggs each day, most of which penetrate into the intestines
or the bladder of their hutr an host and are excreted with the feces or the urine. If the eggs are
deposited in fresh water, ewch hatches into a larva (known as a miracidium). The larva, if it
succeeds in penetrating a suitable snail, divides each day into about one thousand mobile second
stage larvae (cercariae); this p-ocess can continue for up to one hundred days. The mature
cercariae emerge from the snaii into the surrounding water where they seek out and infect
humans who come in contact with the water.
13.   Schistosomiasis is typically found in rural areas, but urban foci are becoming increasingly
common in many countries. In affected communities, at least 20 percent of the population is
infected and often everyone is parasitized. The highest infection rates generally are observed
among chiidren and adolescents, because these groups often play and work in surface water and
have not acquired immunity to the parasite.
14.  Infection with the parasite does not necessarily lead to disease and light infections often
go unnoticed. The penet.'ation of the skin by cercariae often produces a slight rash (commonly
described as "swimmer's itch"). Urinary schistosomiasis causes blood in the urine, and frequent
and painful micturition; in advanced stages, serious kidney damage can develop. Intestinal
schistosomiasis initially produces (bloody) diarrhea, abdominal pain and fatigue. However,
persons with intense infections over many years often develop serious liver disease. The
severity of the disease increases with the number of worms that have infected the individual and
the duration of infection, but genetic and other factors are probably also important. The
pathology of schistosomiasis is due mainly to inflammatory reactions to eggs that have been
trapped in the bladder wall, the intestines or the liver. In advanced stages, fibrotic liver lesions
may occlude the blood vessels of the portal system that drains the intestines and the spleen, and
thus lead to spleen enlargement and (bleeding) oesophageal varices. The resulting vomiting of
blood usually leads to death. Severe schistosomiasis also leads to increased rates of cancer,
particularly of the bladder.
15.   The diagnosis of schistosomiasis is generally based on the microscopic detection of eggs
in the excreta. For quick screening of urinary schistosomiasis, simple dip-sticks may be used
to detect blood in the urine. However, this finding may be due to other diseases and thus further
investigation of those who test positive is required to establish the diagnosis.
16.   Control Strategies. The transmission of schistosomiasis could be halted if either humans
or human excreta could be kept ou' of snail infested water. Farming, fishing, recreational
activities and domestic chores ensure that most Egyptians living in rural areas come in contact
with potential snail habitats daily. Attempts to design and implement programs to eliminate the



-6 -
poilution of surface water have met with little success thus far. A durable solution to the
problem of contact with polluted water clearly will depend on general socio-economic progress
as well as on improvements in domestic water supply and waste management. Alternatively,
transmission might be stopped by ridding the local environment of snails. Chemical pesticides
(molluscicides) have been widely used to kill snails, but logistical and financial constraints have
defeated efforts to treat all the infected canals, drains and ponds simultaneously. Therefore,
water courses rapidly become re-infested with snails that are transported by water currents,
birds, agricultural workers and the like from untreated areas. The snail reproduces very rapidly,
and thus snail colonies typically re-establish themselves in a few months. Because the snail
cannot be completely eradicated, mollusciciding must be repeated frequently. Mollusciciding
is very expensive and requires a highly organized and skilled staff. Only one molluscicide,
niclosamide, is still commercially available. It is highly toxic to snails, their eggs, and to
schistosome cercariae. It is not toxic to man and has limited biocidal effects. It is reasonably
persistent but degrades into harmless organic chemicals when exposed to sunlight. Niclosamide
is also biodegradable; several microorganisms, including bacteria, metabolize it. It is lethal to
fish if applied in high concentrations but not at those concentrations required to kill snailsY
Copper sulfate is also sometimes used but it is not very effective in killing snails because it
degrades very rapidly in alkaline waters.
17.   An alternative strategy for controlling the disease is to administer schistosomidal drugs
to persons who are infected. This intervention reduces the intensity and duration of parasitic
infection and thereby lowers the probability that disease will develop. "Morbidity control" can
be achieved through the identification and treatment of infected individuals, or through the
presumptive treatment of all members of the community. Over the past decade, several drugs
have become available for the practical treatment of schistosomiasis in humans; praziquantel is
now the most widely used of these drugs. A single dose of praziquantel is able to rid at least
80 percent of patients of all parasites. The drug is effective against all species of schistosomes
and is virtually free of objectionable side-effects. However, people who have been successfully
treated often become reinfected because of continued exposure associated with either economic,
domestic or recreational activities. Therefore, in order to control disease, treatment must be
repeated.
18.   The Egyptian National Schistosomiasis Control Programme. Egypt launched a national
attack on schistosomiasis in 1922--soon after the discovery of the role of snails in the
transmission of the disease. For most of the program's history it has relied on molluscicides in
an attempt to control the snail. In addition the program has treated heavily infected individuals
with drugs. The compounds available before 1970 produced very serious side-effects, including
death. Because of these side-effects, drugs had to be administered in small quantities over a
lengthy period under strict medical supervision. Severe nausea and headaches occurred even
then, discouraging most people from completing the full course of treatment and thus being
cured. During the 1930s, the Government of Egypt undertook a national health education
Annex 10 provides a more extensive discussion of the pesticide and of procedures for its safe use.



-7 -
campaign in an attempt to halt the contamination of surface water with human excreta and to
reduce human contact with surface water. This effort failed, principally because most people
living in rural areas could not survive without frequent use of surface water for domestic,
agricultural or recreational purposes. A much improved molluscicide appeared on the market
in the 1960s, which made it possible to achieve higher kill rates than in the past. The intensive
use of modem molluscicides formed the backbone of control activities from about 1960 through
the early years of the 1970s, when two new drugs appeared on the market that both achieved
a higher cure rate and produced fewer side-effects than older compounds. However, these drugs
still had to be administered over a period of weeks and thus continued to present problems of
treatment compliance. In addition, the least objectionable of these drugs was effective only in
the control of S. haematobium.
19.   Near the end of the 1970s, a third "modern" drug--praziquantel--was introduced. As
reported earlier, this drug can be administered in a single dose, produces only very minor side-
effects and is highly effective. Initially, praziquantel was far more expensive than earlier
compounds. The Government of Egypt, in an effort to halt transmission of the disease at
affordable cost, experimented during the 1980s, with combinations of the treatment cf infected
persons with the new drug and the application of molluscicides to snail infested water courses.
As the cost of the drug decreased over the decade, suppressing the infection in the human
population became an economically feasible alternative to destruction of the parasite. Drug
treatment became an even more attractive alternative as evidence accumulated suggesting that
light infections rarely produce disease. Thus the goal of schistosomiasis control activities shifted
gradually over the past fifteen years from halting transmission through destruction of the snail
and reduction of the numbers of eggs deposited in the water by human victims, to simply
reducing the intensity of infection among humans and thus lowering morbidity and mortality due
to the disease.
20.   The Egyptian Schistosomiasis Control Strategy. The NSCP currently pursues a four-
phase attack on schistosomiasis. During the first phase (known as the "preparation phase"),
potential transmission sites and groups of people at risk are identified and carefully mapped.
Staff are trained to identify infected snails, apply molluscicides, diagnose the infection, and treat
infected persons. During the second phase (the "attack phase"), an aggressive campaign is
mounted in order to reduce the prevalence of infection to 10 percent or less.5' The attack is
directed at both the human and the snail populations. During the third phase (tie "consolidation
phase"), both the presence of snails and the prevalence of the disease in humans are closely
monitored. Molluscicides are applied to snail habitats, and treatment is initiated wherever the
parasite is identified in humans. In the fourth phase (the "maintenance phase") the rate of
if     This target has been chosen because pathological consequences of the infection have rarely been observed in
communities in which the prevalence rate has been at this level for several years. This association reflects the fact that a
person can be infected with a small number of schistosomes for a long time (or a fairly large number for a brief period)
without any pathological effects. The validity of this target will be kept under surveillance by the Endemic Diseases Control
Department.



-8 -
infection among humans is to be held to less than ten percent; persons at high risk of acquiring
the parasite are to be screened periodically and treated, if found to be infected.
21.   The sharp distinctions betwe^- phases of the official strategy are in reality difficult to
identify. Instead, efforts to control sw.Aistosomiasis in Egypt combine in varying proportions four
elements of the "attack" and "consolidation" phases of the official strategy. First, children
enrolled in primary school are supposed to be examined for the disease twice annually, and
treated with praziquantel if found to be infected, but in many areas only one screening is being
carried out. Second, all outpatients at rural health facilities with symptoms of infection are
examined, and treated if ova are found. Third, ten percent of households in the service area of
selected facilities are supposed to be examined each month and treated if infected. (This
procedure was devised to provide a basis for monitoring infection rates in the community, but
proble is in implementing the sampling method have undermined the survey's statistical
validity.) The monthly screening of ten percent of the community is not being carried out in
most communities. Finally, snail surveillance teams search for snails using specially designed
scoops to obtain a "dip" from all canals and drains, at intervals of twenty meters, four times a
year. Mollusciciding is initiated in communities in which the prevalence of infection is greater
than 20 per cent or in which snail surveillance demonstrates that infected snails are present. The
snail control program has a staff of about 6,700 persons assigned to search for snails.
Additional part time staff is hired during the season of peak activity to assist in the application
of the molluscicide. Formal reporting procedures for this effort are weak, so it is difficult to
assess the coverage of this part of the program. Moreover, the dipping technique has a small
probability of identifying snails. Shortages of molluscicides have prevented full implementation
of the strategy in recent years.
22. The five governorates located in the Eastern and Western areas of the Nile Delta have
not yet been included in the NSCP. However, primary health care facilities in the area do
provide some care for victims of schistosomiasis. In most villages, school children in grades
one and six are screened each year and outpatients are examined if the attending physician finds
evidence that they are infected. Snail control activities are very limited: major canals and drains
are checked routinely for snails, and copper sulfate is sometimes applied in an effort to kill any
snails that are found, but modem molluscicides are generally not available. These interventions
have not significantly reduced the prevalence of the infection in these areas.
Role of IDA
23.   IDA attaches high priority to improving the quality of Egypt's human resources and
increasing the quality of life of its people. The World Bank Group has pursued a policy
dialogue with Egyptian officials on family planning, education and health for more than two
decades. IDA has assisted the Government's efforts to control schistosomiasis in Middle and
Upper Egypt through components of drainage and irrigation projects. It has financed two
population projects (1973 and 1978) but has not participated directly in projects aimed primarily
at strengthening health activities. Disease continues to undermine the productivity and well-
being of the Egyptian people. The country has developed an impressive infrastructure for



- 9 -
addressing the threats to health that are responsible for these problems, but has not yet achieved
the results that might be expected from these investments. The proposed project is a modest
intervention aimed at attacking the weaknesses in program design and management that are
responsible for unsatisfactory performance.
Lessons from Earlier Operations
24.   The two population projects were judged at completion not to have achieved their
objectives. Evaluation of the first project was frustrated by the failure of project documents to
define objectives in quantitative terms. The project was credited with having contributed to the
development of health infrastructure, the creation of awareness of maintenance issues, the
promotion of home-visiting, and the strengthening of the Ministry of Health's capacity to
formulate and implement projects. Serious cost over-runs were traced to implementation delays
that ultimately led to reduction of the scale of the project. Four lessons were learned: (a) the
Borrower and IDA should reach a clear agreement on the objectives of a project and the means
required to achieve them; (b) a time-phased implementation plan should be prepared; (c) a
reconciliation of Bank Group and Government procedures should be sought very early to avoid
delays in implementation and disbursements; and, (d) details of innovative activities (in this case
home-visiting) should be worked out in advance.
25.   The Second Population Project was cancelled due to limited progress after 7 years of
implementation. This project was plagued by a lack of commitment to project objectives among
staff of the health service, managerial difficulties, and doubts among health officials about the
importance of famrily planning interventions to population objectives. The principal lessons from
this operation were that (a) IDA has limited leverage with which to redefine the priorities of the
Government of Egypt; (b) projects should start small and establish a solid base for reforms; (c)
implementing agencies should be involved in planning and designing major innovations; (d) the
implementation capacity of the Ministry of Health should be realistically appraised; and (e) the
Bank should not expect intensive supervision to substitute for good planning and clear
understandings with implementing authorities.
26.   IDA has not formally evaluated its assistance to the schistosomiasis control program.
However, an intemational team of experts has reported that the program is being operated
effectively and that control of resources is satisfactory. The report of the evaluation team
praised the management of the program.0'
Aims of the Present Project
27.   This project has two broad aims. First, it is designed to expand the coverage and
improve the operations of the NSCP. Second, it is intended to initiate a systematic attack on
problems of program design, staff motivation and management in the health sector--a process
Y/    "Report of an Independent Evaluation Mission on the National Bilharzia Control Program in Egypt, 1985",
Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 81 (Supplemcnt 1987): 1-57.



- 10-
which the Bank Group might further support through assistance to future operations. The
control of schistosomiasis is recognized as a high priority by political leaders, the general public
and health woivnrs. The need to expand the coverage of the NSCP to the Delta has long been
recognized, but efforts to address this need have been thwarted by the absence of a cost-effective
intervention strategy. The discovery of a safe and effective single dose drug has allowed
schistosomiasis control programs to abandon the long-standing operational goal of eradicating
the disease by interrupting its transmission, and to focus instead on the control of disease in
humans through treatment of those who are likely to suffer serious effects from it. This advance
in control technology has not yet been fully absorbed into the operational strategy and activities
of the NSCP. Therefore the project seeks not only to increase the coverage of the national
control program but also to assist the EDCD in institutionalizing improvements in its program.
This approach addresses directly the problems encountered by earlier IDA operations in the
population and health sectors: it attacks a problem that is recognized as important by
Government as well as IDA; it relies on a detailed, jointly prepared strategy for the long-term
development of the program to control the disease; and it provides for financing of a small
number of clearly defined goods and services.
28.   The second broad aim of this project is to initiate a program of cooperation that focuses
on strengthening the design and management of health programs. The NSCP models on a small
scale the use of program evaluation techniques and operations research tools to identify
opportunities to improve the cost-effectiveness of health programs. The project has been
designed to allow rapid implementation of the findings of analyses of the program and its
performance. The project is deliberateiy modest in scale and is directed at one of the more
focused programs being carried out by the Ministry of Health. The project emphasizes
strengthening of the capacity of the EDCD to define its mission, evaluate its activities, design
interventions, assess constraints on the program and devolve respoasibility to authorities at the
governorate and district levels. The operation is expected to lead to fui.her Bank Group
participation in the health sector in Egypt; these future operations would also stress the
strengthening of programs through strategic planning and improved management.
III. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED OPERATION
29.   The proposed credit would support three sets of activities. First, it would help to finance
the procurement of laboratory equipment, vehicles, drugs, molluscicides, consulting services and
training to enable the NSCP to expand into the Eastern and Western areas of the Nile Delta.
Second, the credit would finance training and the purchase of laboratory equipment and vehicles
for use in Middle and Upper Egypt, and the Suez Canal area. These investments would not only
allow the NSCP to rehabilitate older facilities but also enable it to adopt more cost-effective
methods of diagnosis and treatment. Third, the credit would finance the strengthening of the
EDCD in order to increase its capacity to evaluate (and modify as appropriate) the national
control strategy, to provide tne staff of the NSCP with the skills required for improvement of
the program, and to oversee more effectively the overall program.



- 11 -
Expansion of the Program into the Nile Delta
30.    The project wouldTeh w enable the Government of Egypt to launch an attack on
schistosomiasis in five governorates of the Eastern and Westem areas of the Nile Delta. These
areas are inhabited by about 17 million people. Thus the operation would increase the
population served by the NSCP from 15 million to 32 million. The goal of the intensified attack
on the disease would be to reduce the prevalence and intensity of infection with schistosomiasis
to a level that is unlikely to result in disease. Hence, the project would seek to reduce the
prevalence of infection from its current rate of more than 35 percent of the population to less
than 10 percent, at which point the intensity of infection would be low and the likelihood that
disease would develop would be very small. In order to achieve this goal the 871 primary health
care facilities in the five governorates initially would: (a) screen all school children twice a year;
(b) evaluate all outpatients who present themselves to health facilities and are suspected of being
infected; and (c) examine ten percent of the population of the catchment area of each health
facility each month. The credit would help to finance microscopes, laboratory glassware and
minor items of equipment costing US$1.9 million and would provide up to US$18.1 million to
obtain laboratory supplies, drugs and molluscicides over the life of the credit. In addition, the
operation would provide approximately US$1 million to retrain 1,800 laboratory technicians to
use modern, cost-effective, diagnostic techniques, and to orient physicians employed by the
program.
Consolidaton of Existing Control Activities
31.   Second, the project would provide the resources needed to rehabilitate the facilities and
modernize the activities of five projects implemented earlier in Middle and Upper Egypt, and
the Suez Canal region. The credit would assist the Government in purchasing the equipment,
vehicles, and supplies required to adopt modern diagnostic technologies and to maintain control
of the prevalence of schistosomiasis in these 21 governorates. The cost of refurbishing and
upgrading existing facilities is being assessed by the EDCD; the preliminary analyses suggest
that US$0.7 million is needed to be spent to replace defective microscopes and upgrade
laboratory equipment. In addition, US$14.1 would be required in order to finance the purchase
of diagnostic materials and drugs. Approximately US$0.3 million would be reserved for the
retraining of laboratory technicians in modern diagnostic methods and orientation of physicians.
Strategic Planning and Modernization of the Program
32.   Finally, the project would provide training for staff of the EDCD in modern methods of
policy analysis and managemernt, and would secure consultancy services to assist it in
strengthening its accounting and budgeting functions and in developing studies of operational
efficiency and program effectiveness. The project would also assist in the development of
capacity for strategic planning at both central and governorate levels as steps toward the further
decentralization of planning and control of the program. (Because intense transmission of the
disease tends to occur at highly specific sites, a more focal approach to surveillance and control
is expected to emerge in the maintenance phase of the program.) These activities are expected



- 12 -
to lead to major efficiency gains, primarily through the development and implementation of a
more refined disease control strategy.
33.   The project would also provide management consultants to assist the EDCD in developing
a management-oriented accounting system to supplement its existing systems which stress the
control of physical inputs. These consultants would advise on the development of a chart of
accounts, the implementation of a system for accounting for capital assets and the preparation
of cost analyses on a cost center basis. These consultants are to be recruited locally and to work
on a part-time basis. The consultants are also expected to assist the EDCD in working with the
governorates to prepare annual strategic plans for the control program.
Operational Plan
34.   As noted above, the long-term goal of this project is to assist the Ministry of Health in
improving its policy making, planning and management in order to enable the NSCP to control
schistosomiasis using only national resources. This is a feasible prospect because of recent
developments in the technology for diagnosing and treating the disease and corresponding
changes in the operational objectives of control activities. If these new opportunities are fully
exploited, the operating costs and management demands of the program can be significantly
reduced. A set of rough calculations based upon the judgements of international experts suggest
that optimization of the control strategy might reduce costs by about 15 percent. The operation
would help the EDCD evaluate these new options under Egyptian field conditions and
incorporate them as appropriate into the national control program. The Egyptian authorities are
being asked to study these options following agreed research strategies and to modify the control
strategy in accordance with the findings of the studies. The protocols are outlined in Annex 4.
At Negotiations, the Ministry of Health provided assurances that the EDCD would carry out the
research protocols presented in Annex 4 and nnodify the control strategy in accordance with the
findings of the studies (para. 89.a). The following paragraphs very briefly describe the purposes
and approaches of these protocols.
35.   Screening Methods. Developments in screening technology offer the possibility both of
major improvements in sensitivity and of savings in costs. The principal advantage of those
alternatives is greater manageability: they require less processing and are more readily
supervised. The EDCD currently relies on sedimentation of stool and urine samples to
determine whether individuals are infected. This technique relies on the fact that the ova of the
parasites are heavier than water and therefore, if left in a conical flask for a period of 30-45
minutes, accumulate at the bottom. (Stool specimens must be dissolved in a saline solution and
sieved before sedimentation.) The residue in the bottom of the flask must be carefully drawn
from the flask using a glass pipette and then examined under a microscope to identify ova. This
technique is capable of identifying a high proportion of infections if properly carried out.
However, it requires well-maintained glassware and scrupulous adherence to the procedures that
have been devised to ensure that the ova are allowed to settle to the bottom of the flask.
Carefully controlled surveys undertaken by UNICEF and Egyptian academic researchers suggest



- 13 -
that up to two-thirds of all infected persons are undiagnosed because of defects in the execution
of the sedimentation technique.2'
36.   The glass slide prepared with the sediment must be examined promptly and cannot be
stored for later review by supervisors. In addition, sedimentation techniques do not produce a
standardized specimen that can be used to assess the intensity of infection. Finally, these
diagnostic methods are especially likely to miss light infections and hence are least useful in
monitoring conditions during the maintenance phase of the program when small numbers of light
infections are expected.
37.   Under the project, the EDCD would evaluate the feasibility of using simple dip sticks to
test for the presence of blood in the urine. Dip sticks are available commercially, but are
designed to test for a large number of abnormalities and thus are more complex and more
expensive than is necessary. Researchers at a non-profit institution in the U.S., funded by the
Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, are developing a simplified dip stick, which could be
maiiufactured locally; the market for such a device would be about 40 million items a year in
Egypt alone. The economic feasibility of using dip sticks would depend as well on the
prevalence of urinary schistosomiasis, since all specimens containing blood would have to be
reexamined using conventional methods in order to determine whether S. haematobiwn is
responsible for the hematuria. The study would establish the cut-off value for use of the
technique. The ability of dip sticks to detect blood deteriorates rapidly if they are stored under
humid conditions. The study would determine the optimal packaging and maximum shelf life
for the dip sticks to be used under Egyptian field conditions.
38.   The feasibility of using paper or nitrocellulose filters to remove ova from a standardized
volume of urine would also be evaluated under Egyptian conditions. These filters may be
examined under a microscope to determine the intensity of infection for urinary schistosomiasis.
The used filters can be stored for long periods and can be reexamined by supervisors or fellow
workers in order to determine if the procedure is being carried out properly. This technique is
unlikely to be appropriate for use in programs to screen large numbers of asymptomatic persons,
but it would be useful as a method for confirming the diagnosis obtained with a dip-stick and
for assessing the intensity of an infection.
39.   The Kato technique for diagnosis of intestinal schistosomiasis would also be evaluated
for possible introduction as the field technique for screening large groups. The Kato technique
relies on the direct examination of a thin smear of stool prepared with a cellophane slip. It
provides a standardized procedure for quantifying the number of eggs in a gram of stool and thus
is useful in assessing the intensity of infection and the likelihood that disease will develop. In
addition, the Kato technique produces a slide which can be stored for later reexamination by
supervisors. The EDCD has also agreed to explore the feasibility of replacing disposable,
21    Spencer, H.C, E. Ruiz-Tiben, N.S. Mansour, and B.L. Cline. 1990. 'Evaluation of UNICEF/Arab Republic of
Egypt/WHO Schistosomiasis Control Project in Beheira Govemorate", Anerican Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene,
(42)5:441-48.



- 14 -
plastic laboratory equipment commonly used in carrying out the Kato technique, with locally
manufactured, reusable stainless steel items in order to reduce the costs and increase the
robustness of the program. The new methods would first be evaluated on a pilot scale. A
decision would be taken about the frequency with which egg counts would be obtained from the
Kato slides and urine filters. These pilot studies would lead to operational decisions within one
year.
40.   The Interv'ention Strategy.  The treatment of infected persons with praziquantel
(chemotherapy) is recognized as an effective tool for controlling morbidity due to
schistosomiasis. This conclusion replaces the earlier hypothesis that transmission could be halted
using a combination of drug treatment (to reduce the discharge of ova into the environment) and
snail control (to interrupt the life cycle of the parasite). It has been demonstrated conclusively
that under field conditions, chemotherapy does not reduce the release of eggs into the
environment sufficiently to have a significant impact on the infection of snails and hence on
transmission. Incomplete population coverage, errors in diagnosis, incomplete cures, and
mobility among infected individuals invariab'ly result in reinfectioii of the snail habitats.
41. In the Eastern and Western Delta regions. chemotherapy initially would be applied in
accordance with the existing strategy, but with:   ree years a study would be completed to
establish whether, and at what stage of control, Ic- frequent screening and treatment could be
implemented. This analysis would focus on tradeoffs between more sensitive, as contrasted with
more frequent, screening (see paras. 34-38) and on the frequency of treatment necessary to
eliminate intense infections.
42.   The analysis would also explore the relationships between reinfection and the
characteristics of individuals and communities in order to allow more efficient targeting of
interventions. Past experience suggests that some villages will emerge as foci of intense initial
infection and high rates of reinfection, presumably because of local ecological conditions or
behavioral patterns. The frequency, and perhaps even the method of screening, might be
tailored to local realities in order to obtain greater benefits from the expenditure of available
resources; among outpatients, symptomatic cases might continue to receive priority. The yield
that could be expected from screening visitors to rural health care facilities who do not display
symptoms of schistosomiasis would be assessed and compared with that from other options for
using resources committed to the program.
43.   The current practice of screening and treating a rotating sample of community members
would be carefully evaluated as a basis for assessing program performance and for establishing
operational priorities. The statistical design of the sample also would be examined to ensure that
the procedure provides a sound basis for making statements about the population. Finally, the
EDCD would evaluate the possibility of following up the treatment of patients after one year,
rather than the present period of three months.
44. Snail Control. The five governorates of the Eastern and Western Delta regions include
168,700 kilometers of canals and drains that may harbor infected snails. To control the snail



- 15 -
through the application of molluscicides is neither technically feasible nor affordable under these
circumstances. Therefore a focused strategy of malacological surveillance and intervention
should be developed. This strategy would ensure that resources are concentrated on high-trans-
mission villages and hamlets as indicated by local infection and reinfection rates in humans
rather than on the existence of snails. The strategy would provide for mapping pLttems of
infection and reinfection within those villages or hamlets identified as problems. Cut-off values
for snail control would be defined on the basis of epidemiological and operational studies.
Tentatively, it is proposed to designate as "problem villages" or "problem hamlets" those
communities with an initial prevalence rate among school children of more than fifty percent,
or a prevalence rate after ibree years of screening and treatment greater than fifteen percent.
45.   Local epidemiological data would be used as the primary source of information in
identifying transmission sites. Malacological and sociological information would be used to
complement maps of transmission. Reliance on area-wide snail surveys would be reduced or
discontinued. More intensive and sensitive snail sampling methods would be considered for
identification of snails in areas where intense transmission is occurring. Rapid assessment
procedures for the identification of water contact sites, based on questionnaires and/or direct
observation, would be developed. Environmental measures designed to eliminate snail breeding
at high-transmission sites would be adopted wherever practical.  Otherwise, appropriate
treatment with the molluscicide, niclosamide, would be carried out. At the end of the first three
years of this operation, the feasibility, effectiveness and cost of focal mollusciciding would be
re-evaluated, concentrating e n the reduction of incidence and reinfection rates in treated villages
and research results from the Egyptian Schistosomiasis Research Project (SRP).Y'
46.   Innovative Interventions.  The project would include US$350,000 for the design and
evaluation of innovative intervention activities. These funds would be used to explore options
for improving sanitation and domestic water supplies in communities with high rates of
transmission. Possible interventions might include construction of public laundries and showers,
and community facilities for the disposal of waste water and excreta. Opportunities for
strengthening health education would also be explored. Activities might include development
of appropriate teaching materials and methods for use in schools and communities. A multi-
disciplinary task force would be created within a year of approval of the credit to prepare a plan
of action for the sanitation and health education components. At Negotiations, assurances were
received that the EDCD would report annually on the findings of its program of operational
research. At the end of t ' third year, a review of the project would be held to assess the
progress of the agreed studies, evaluate the overall performance of the control program and
I'     The SRP is jointly sponsored by the Government of Egypt and the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). It is financed by a grant from USAID and in-kind contributions from the Government of Egypt.
The SRP is expected to spend approximately US$50 million over the ten years between 1988 and 1997. The research
agenda is being established by an advisory group composed of internationally reputed Egyptian and American scientists.
The SRP has six main goals: the development of a vaccine for schistosomiasis, the improvement of diagnostic techniques,
the strengthening of field epidemiology, the conduct of operational research, the study of social and economic consequences
of the disease and investigations on the biology of the snail. The SRP is managed by a team of Egyptians, headed by the
director general of the EDCD.



- 16 -
identify any further investigations and or modifications to be pursued in the final three years of
the project (para. 89.b). A schedule of monitoring and evaluation indicators is provided in
Annex 8.
47.  Institutional Strengthening. The monitoring, evaluation, planning and policy making
functions would be strengthened at all levels. Control over the quality of statistical repoits
obtained from the primary health care system would be strengthened; these efforts would focus
on both the integrity of reporting and the accuracy of diagnostic information. For example, they
would include implement"ation of computerized procedures for the detection and verification of
inconsistencies in monthly reports, checks on the execution and quality of the screening and
treatment campaigns and re-examination of a random sample of urine filters and Kato slides by
the primary health care physician and/or district chief laboratory technician.
48.   Rates of reinfection among treated and re-examined patients and conversion rates for
children previously not found to be infected would be included in the reports. To this end,
forms would be introduced which would allow a record to be kept for each child for several
years.. The returns from the various target groups would be tabulated each year for each
primary health care facility, and at six-monthly intervals for each school. Analyses of these
reports would lead to the targeting of chemotherapy on high-risk groups and the initiation of
environmental interventions in communities that are most likely to benefit from them. The
returns would be compiled at the district, govemorate and nadional level. Analyses would be
carried out at the lowest possible level in order to inform as fully as possible decisions about the
operation of the program. At Negotiations, assurances were received that the EDCD would
introduce new forns for reporting on the incidence of schistosomiasis that would allow a single
record to be maintained for each child for the duration of his or her schooling, and would
implement data editing and data management procedures to control the quality of statistical
infomaion (para. 89.c).
49.   Finally, the criteria for shifts between phases of the program would be clearly established
and the contents of the progralm during each phase would be outlined. Changes in program
content might include a shift to less frequent screening and treatment of school children, or a
decision to broaden coverage of programs to actively screen members of the community. Cut-
off values for intensive focal intervention would be defined and documented.
50.   Strategic Planning and Decentralization. Each year, a strategic operational plan and
budget would be developed which reflect the resources likely to become available and the
problems and results experienced by the program. To this end, two planning seminars would
be organized each year. The first would bring together project managers and their deputies from
the governorates of the Delta region (concerned mainly with S. mansoni, attack phase), Ministry
of Health staff, facilitators and exteirnal consultants. A second seminar would be held for Upper
and Middle Egypt (concerned mainly with S. haematobium, maintenance phase).  At
Negotiations, assurances were rece.ved that the EDCD each year would prepare a strategic
operational plan and a budget that recognize the resources to be allocated to the program, and
the problems and ,esults being experienced by it (para. 89.d).



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT
AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost of the Project
51.   Summary of Project Costs. Total project costs are estimated to be LE142.73 million or
US$43.25 million equivalent. This estimate reflects the conservative assumption that no
improvements in program efficiency will be made and the prices of laboratory supplies, drugs
and pesticides will increase in line with the wholesale prices of traded manufactured goods.
(The base case economic analyses also reflect these assumptions.) These costs include
expenditures for staff training and for purchase of laboratory equipment, diagnostic laboratory
supplies, drugs, pesticides, motor vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, consultancy services, and
external training. Table 4.1 summarizes these costs by purpose of expenditure; Annex 5
provides further details. Spending by the NSCP for employment of staff, and fcr maintenance
of buildings, furnishings, equipment and vehicles, as a part of continued support to projects in
Middle and Upper Egypt and the Suez Canal area are not included in the estimates of project
costs. These expenditures have averaged approximately US$4.00 million annually in recent
years. If these costs were allocated to the project in accordance with standard accounting
practice, the total expenditures over the six year period from January 1, 1993 through December
31, 1998 for the control of schistosomiasis would be LE250.80 million or LE1.32 per year of
protection per person.
Table 4.1 SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
LE millions                  US$ Millions
Local  Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign   Total
Expanding the coverage of the    9.47     68.84    7831        2.87    20.86    23.73
National Schistosomiasis Control
Programme into the Nile Delta
Modernizing and rehabilitating the  7.00  44.35    51.35       2.12    13.44    15.56
National Schistosomiasis Control
Programme
Strengthening the management     2.01     0.46     2.47        0.61     0.14     0.75
capacity of the Department of
Endemic Disease Control
Total base costs                18.48    113.65   132.13        5.60    34.44    40.04
Price contingencies              1.29     931    10.60         0.39     2.82     321
Total project costs             19.77    122.96   142 .7



- 18 -
52.   Project costs are summarized by category of expenditure in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Componeat
LE milions                           USS millions                 Foreign     to ba
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~ -  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                  ~-~~ -              Exchadge      cols
Lacul     Foreign    Total           lacal     Fomeign     Total          (percent)    (percent)
Izboitoiyequipmentand                       8.02      8.02                        2.43     2.43               t00            6
COMPutom
Lbontm ouppll                             12.28     12.28              --        3.72     3.72               100            9
Vehicles                                    9.37      9.37                        2.84     2.84               100            7
Dngs and pesicies              A4.26       80.98     95.24            4.32       24.54    28.86                85           72
Conslingsvlce andtraining       3.33        0.17      3.50            1.01        0.05      I.N                 5            3
Ic- tal operatin expe
forvebhcle                      0.89       2.87      3.76            0.27        0.87      1.14               76            3
........................................................   ...................................... .................. . . ....................................... ...................-.......................................... .....
Total bae csos                 18.48      113.69    132.17            5.60       34.45    40.05                86          100
Price contingci                 1.32        9.27     10.59            0.40        2.81     3.21
........................................................   .......................................................................................
Total pojectos                                      142 .a  M 76      6Q0        37.26       26
Note: .ela W .y MAt DOtNd to tDtas due to ondUng.
53.   Basds of Cost Estimntes.  Estimates of the costs of laboratory equipment, laboratory
supplies, drugs, pesticides and motor vehicles have been based upon recent transauions of the
SRP. Estimates of the cost of training are based on recent experiences under a project for the
Central Delta area, financed by the ADB. The quantities of equipment needed to rehabilitate
existing facilities in Middle and Upper Egypt have been obtained from a survey of district-level
managers of h-ie control activities conducted by the EDCD.  The quantities of laboratory
supplies, drugs and pesticides needed to carry out the present strategy for disease control have
been estimated by the appraisal mission on the basis of records of current operations. Rates for
local consultancy services and external training were obtained from the SRP. Base cost
estimates reflect prices as projected for the time of negotiations (May 15, 1992). About 60
percent of the recurrent costs for schistosomiasis control are for the purchase of the drug
praziquantel. The patent for praziquantel will expire during project implementation, which is
likely to lead to greater competition among manufacturers and a significant decline in price.
Govemment agencies are not required to pay customs duties or taxes on goods procured with
the proceeds of loans or credits obtained from the World Bank Group.
54.   Contingency Allowances. Because the operational research activities to be undertaken
by the project are expected to lead to substantial reductions in program operating costs, physical
contingencies have not been included in the estimates of project costs. Annual rates of price
increase have been applied to all categories of foreign and local costs on the basis of projected
inflation rates.



- 19 -
55.   Foreign Exchange Compunent. The foreign exchange component was estimated as
follows: (a) laboratory equipment, computers, pesticides and laboratory supplies at 100 percent;
(b) drugs at 80 percent; (c) vehicles, motorcycles, and bicycles at 100 percent; and (d) external
training at 95 percent. These percentages have been determined by assuming that (a) all
equipment would be imported; (b) drugs would be manufactured locally from imported, bulk
technical materials; (c) vehicles would be imported; and (d) EDCD staff would be trained in
management and policy analysis at foreign institutions. Including contingencies, the resulting
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$37.26 million, or about 86 percent of total costs.
56.   Recurrent Costs. In 1991, the Govemment of Egypt budgeted about LE14 million to
purchase drugs and pesticides in order to control schistosomiasis. The studies to be undertaken
as part of the project are expected to lead to a sharp reduction in the prevalence of infection and
hence to a decrease in annual treatment costs. Past experiences suggest that during the first
three years of the program, prevalence of infection can be expected to decline by two-thirds;
drug costs are projected to fall correspondingly. The delivery of diagnostic and treatment
services will continue to be carried out by the primary health care system in rural health posts,
centers and hospitals and no additional expenditures for staff or facilities will be required. Thus,
the direct cost of the national program at the conclusion of the project is expected to be about
US$4.0 million (LE13.0 million) a year if no further modifications are made to the control
strategy.
57.   The studies to be undertaken as a part of the project are expected to produce major
savings through reduced reliance on molluscicides, more sensitive diagnosis of infected persons,
and less frequent treatment of infected persons. The high rate of infection found six months
after all persons diagnosed positive have been treated is believed to be due largely to failure to
identify many light infections. The introduction of more sensitive techniques is expected to lead
to the identification and treatment of more infected persons initially, but to result in much lower
rates of apparent reinfection in subsequent periods.  This hypothesis, if borne out by
experimental data, would allow the program to screen and treat at greater intervals, thereby
reducing the cost of both laboratory supplies and drugs. The appraisal mission expects these
developments to reduce recurrent expenditures for laboratory supplies and drugs by more than
half. This implies that the total recurrent direct cost of the national program would be about half
the initial level of expenditure at the conclusion of the project.
58.   To summarize, because the NSCP is operated as part of the primary health care program,
no additional costs for staff, facilities or administration are anticipated. The cost of diagnostic
materials and drugs would increase by about US$1.4 million a year during the maintenance
phase, if no improvements in operational efficiency were achieved. However, the operational
research and management strengthening components of the project are expected to lead at
minimum to (a) a reduction in the frequency of screening for infection among school children
from twice a year to no more than once a year; (b) introduction of less costly methods of mass
screening for urinary schistosomiasis; and (c) better targeting of snail control activities. These
three changes are expected to reduce incremental recurrent expenditures for the entire national
program by about US$1.2 million a year; the net effect would then be to permit coverage of 32



- 20 -
million persons with the budget previously allocated to the provision of services to the 15 million
people living in Middle and Upper Egypt and the Suez Canal areas.
Project Ffnancing
59.   The proposed IDA credit of SDR19.60 million would finance 72 percent of the foreign
exchange component of the project. A co-financier has expressed interest in providing co-
financing for the project in the form of a grant in the amount of US$6.00 million; a second co-
financier is also interested in assisting the project but has not specified the amount it might
provide. The Government would finan. the local costs, which are estimated to be US$5.99
million. If co-financing arrangements have not been finalized by December 31, 1993, the
duration of the project would be reduced from six to four years. IDA would finance foreign
expenditures for equipment, vehicles, supplies, training, and drugs and pesticides. Four years
would be sufficient to complete the capital investments to be undertaken as part of the project,
but would not permit IDA to be fully involved in the institutionalization of expected changes in
the disease control strategy, and further decentralization of program administration.
Table 4.3: FINANCING PLAN
(Total costs of project inputs, including contingencies in US$ millions)
Local   Foreign    Total
Government        5.99         --    5.99
Co-financier        --      10.42    10.42
IDA                  --    26.84    26.84
Total Financing   5.99      37.26    43.25
Note: Price contingencies between negotiations
(May  15,  1992) and  the  end  of project
implementation are estimated at US$3.21 million
equivalent, or 8.0 percent of base costs.
Management and Implementation
60.   Management Structure. The proposed project would be implemented by the EDCD,
Ministry of Health. The Director of Project Administration, EDCD, is responsible for the
coordination of externally financed activities; he is supported by an accountant and a staff of data
analysts charged with project monitoring. The directorate has implemented six projects
benefitting 15 million people. These projects have been financed by the Government of
Germany, the ADB and IDA. The directorate has managed procurement and reported on its
financial operations satisfactorily under the guidelines of both the ADB and the World Bank.
At Negotiations, assurances were received that the Government would designate the Director of
Project Administration, EDCD, with staffing and terms of reference acceptable to IDA, to



- 21 -
coordinate the work of implementing governorates, monitor progress, keep project accounts and
liaise with IDA (para. 89.e).
61.   Organiaion and Management of the Project. The EDCD sets policy, prepares plans,
trains staff, procures and distributes drugs anc molluscicides, and evaluates field activities. The
Department has a staff of 65 people including seven medical doctors, twelve agricultural
engineers (responsible for surveillance and control of snails), and forty support staff including
secretaries, clerks, drivers and peons. The health departments of the governorates and districts
implement the program through the primary health care system. The 26 governorates each
appoint an executive director of endemic disease control who reports to an under secretary or
a director general of health assigned to each govemorate. The executive director of endemic
diseases control is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the schistosomiasis control
program and in particular for overseeing efforts to control the snail population.
62.   The management of the primary health care system is entrusted to 170 districts. The
districts operate rural health units, rural health centers, rural hospitals, endemic diseases
hospitals, district hospitals and a few referral hospitals. The district medical officer administers
facilities on a day-to-day basis. University hospitals provide most referral care.
63.   The procurement of drugs, pesticides, and laboratory equipment and supplies is carried
out by the Central Purchasing agency of the Ministry of Health. This institution purchases
goods and services worth about US$150 million a year. Its procedures comply with the
requirements of donors including IDA and the ADB.
64.   Maintenance. The performance of the Ministry of Health in carrying out schistosomiasis
control activities was evaluated by an panel of international experts in 1986.2' The panel found
that the program was making "excellent progress" and went on to attribute this success to "the
diligent work of the staff of the Egyp,ian Bilharzia Control Program who have undertaken the
tedious work in a most professional and committed way". Its evaluation included not only an
assessment of the technical aspects of the program, but also an examination of the control of
resources and the upkeep of vehicles and equipment. The NSCP and the EDCD are competently
staffed, motivated and eifective organizations, capable of implementing and maintaining the
project.
65.   Procurement.  Procurement of vehicles, laboratory equipment, supplies, drugs and
pesticides have been grouped into four packages, the contents of which could typically be
supplied by one supplier. These purchases, which are suitable for International Compe:itive
Bidding (ICB), would be procured in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement
Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May, 1985). Contracts would be awarded as shown in
Table 4.4.
2'    The findings of the Evaluation Panel were published in a special issue of the Transactions of the Royal Society of
Tropical Medicine and hygiene, 81(Supplement 1987): 1-57.



- 22 -
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(Total costs of proposed project components including contingencies, in US$ millions)
Procurement method
Project element                          ICB    Other   Total
Laboratory equipment, computers, operation  9.37   0.00     9.37
vehicles and laboratory supplies
(9.37)'  (0.00)   (9.37)
Drugs                                    23.52     0.00    23.52
(12.87)  (0.00)  (12.87)
Pesticides                                8.02     0.00     8.02
(3.51)   (0.00)   (3.51)
Consultant servicesb                      0.00     1.09     1.09
(0.00)   (1.09)   (1.09)
Incremental vehicle overating costs and   0.00     1.25     1.25
communications
(0.00)   (0.00)   (0-00)
Total                                    40.91     2.34    43.25
(26.84)  (0.00)  (26.84)
a. Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA credit.
b. Services would be procured in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines: Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" (Washington, D.C., August 1981).
66.  Status of Preparation. This project is at a state of preparation that would permit timely
implementation. Equipment lists have been completed and bid specifications have been
prepared. The technical assistance package has been fully defined, terms of reference have been
drafted, and draft tender documents have been prepared. Project completion would be
December 31, 1998 and the Closing Date would be June 30, 1999.



- 23 -
67.   Disbursements. The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of about seven
years. Disbursements would be made against:
Category                  Percent of expenditures to
be financed
(1) Equipment (including  100% of foreign
operation vehicles) and   expenditures, 100% of local
materials                 expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(2) Drugs                 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(3) Pesticides            100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Consultants' services  100%
(including services for
preparation of environmental
control measures) and
training
Disbursements from the proposed credit are expected to take place on an average of about six
months after incurring the expenditure. A disbursement schedule and profile, reflecting this and
making a comparison with profile, are shown in Annex 9. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1999.
68.   Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding US$100,000 equivalent
would be made against normal documentation. Disbursements against contracts below that level
would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), available for examination by
IDA missions. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would establish,
maintain and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, a Special Account in a
commercial bank, to which IDA would make an initial deposit, equivalent to about US$500,000.
The Special Account would be replenished as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the
account falls below an amount equal to 50 percent or less of the amount of the Special Account.
Withdrawal applications would be supported by appropriate documentation.



- 24 -
69.   Project Supervision. A project launch seminar is planned for the first quarter of calendar
year 1993. At that time the details of operational research studies and initial steps toward
project implementation will be agreed. Thereafter two supervision missions will be required
annually to monitor the progress of the project, review procurement, and participate in strategic
planning exercises. At the conclusion of the third year of operation a mid-term review will be
carried out in order to evaluate overall progress and to redefine, if necessary, the operational
plan for the project. All supervision missions will include a tropical parasitologist, whose
responsibilities will include evaluation of the quality of the technical work being carried out in
the field and at the level of the EDCD. Each year, one of the missions will be scheduled to
overlap with the annual meeting of the expert committee that oversees the work of the SRP so
that information can be exchanged and any criticisms of the project by international experts
brought to the attention of the EDCD. One mission a year will usually include a management
consultant whose tasks will be to review the accounting and budgeting systems and to assist in
the preparation of strategic plans.  An implementation specialist will also be included
approximately once a year to review and evaluate procurement, compliance with covenants and
institutional development. A total of 76 staff weeks of supervision or US$462,000 (based on
an average cost of US$6,000 per staff week) is estimated to be required for all supervision,
including preparation of the completion report.
70.   Accounts and Audits. At Negotiations, assurances were received from the Government
that the EDCD would maintain separate accounts for the project (para. 89.f). Project accounts
would be audited in accordance with the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting
and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank". At Negotiations, assurances were also
received that the Government, within six months of the end of each fiscal year, would provide
IDA with an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a
separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of expenditures
(para. 89.g).
71.   Program Affordability. The project would enable the Government of Egypt to operate
the NSCP with a smaller total recurrent budget than has been spent in recent years. (See paras.
55-57 for a more detailed discussion of the likely recurrent costs associated with this project.)
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, RISK ASSESSMENT AND SOCIAL IMPACT
72.   This project competes for resources with investment opportunities in other sectors. In
order to inform the decision to undertake the project, IDA and the Ministry of Health have
examined as fully as possible the economic returns to the investment. This section summarizes
the findings of that investigation and Annex 6 provides further details of the analysis.
73.   The project is composed of three components. The first would reduce the prevalence and
intensity of infection with schistosomiasis in the five governorates of Dakahlia, Sharkia,
Qualubia, Beheira and Rural Alexandria, in the Eastern and Western Delta regions of the
country.  The second component would help to devise and implement a cost-efficient



- 25 -
maintenance strategy for the national control program. The third would assist the government
in developing a more efficient and sustainable strategy for the long-term control of
schistosomiasis throughout the country.
Control of Schistosomiasis in the Delta Region
74.   This component is expected by the conclusion of the project to have reduced the number
of persons infected with schistosomes by about two-thirds. Because infection causes disease only
if it is intense or of long duration, disease is then expected to become extremely rare. The
benefits of the component have been translated into monetary units by estimating the willingness
of beneficiaries to pay for the improvements in their welfare that result from the project. These
improvements take many forms and derive primarily from the increase in life expectancy and
reduced risk of death that the project produces. Increased life expectancy will not only enable
persons to earn more and to exploit more fully the potential returns from prior investments in
human capital, but also will increase individual and community welfare directly by increasing
aggregate job satisfaction, improving the lives of family members (including the direct
beneficiary) and expanding opportunities for participation in the wider community. While the
primary beneficiary is the person whose life is saved, other persons including family members,
friends, business associates, and community members often also have an interest in saving a
person's life.
75.   Quantification of these benefits is difficult both because markets do not exist for many
of these goods, and because a comprehensive list of the beneficiaries cannot be easily
constructed. In some instances evidence can be assembled from other settings that suggests how
much people have valued similar improvements in their own lives or the lives of other people.
For purposes of the present analysis, assumptions about the willingness of all affected persons
to pay for improvements in someone's health and the numbers of persons directly affected have
been assembled. These assumptions appear very consevative. Sensitivity analyses have been
performed to further clarify the possible effects of a significantly over- or under-estimate of the
true benefits. During the 1980s, about 2.5 percent of the population died from schistosomiasis
between the ages of 35 and 45 years. Thus, during the mid-1990s, this component of the project
is expected to reduce the number of premature deaths attributable to schistosomiasis by about
4,600 a year; the overwhelming majority of persons likely to die from the disease would be
males. If one assumes that society would be willing to pay US$600 in order to increase the
length of the average victim's life by a year, that the average age at death due to schistosomiasis
is 40 years, and that the project will yield returns for 25 years, the internal rate of return for this
component would be 40 percent. US$600 represents about a third of the average income of a
fully employed Egyptian worker. A number significantly smaller than total earnings was chosen
to reflect the fact that a significant fraction of earnings are consumed in maintaining the
productivity of the individual as a worker and do not contribute to welfare. If the reduction in
the number of deaths were only half the estimated number, the rate of return would be 17
percent. If the willingness to pay to increase life expectancy by a year were only two thirds the
base estimate, the rate of return would instead be 18 percent. Annex 6 presents the assumptions
used in analyzing the economics of this component and additional sensitivity analyses. Under



- 26 -
any plausible set of assumptions about the costs and benefits of this component, the rate of
return is much higher than that expected from conventional investments.
The Modernization and Strengthening of 1)ngoing C.rtmol Activities
76.   Projects financed by the Government of Germany, the ADB and IDA have benefitted the
area bordering the Suez canal and the area lying along the Nile between Cairo and the Sudanese
border. These projects target a rural population estimated to be about 15 million persons in
1991. A credit approved by the ADB which is expected to become effective July 1, 1992, will
provide services to about 4 million people living in the Middle Delta. These projects were
intended to interrupt the transmission of the disease through the application of molluscicides and
treatment of infected persons. As reported earlier, the development of a safe, effective drug
which can be administered in a single dose has revolutionized schistosomiasis control. The
control programs in Middle and Upper Egypt have not been modified to exploit fully the new
technology. The proposed project would provide training and equipment to enable these areas
to adopt a sustainable strategy of disease control. The benefits of this investment include
improved control and greater cost-effectiveness of the control program. Estimates of these
benefits cannot readily be disentangled from the gains attributable to the strengthening of
strategic planning and program management discussed in the next section. Therefore the
combined benefits of modernization and improved management are presented at the conclusion
of the next subsection.
Strengthening .ae Capacity of the Ministry of Health to Carry out Strategic Planning and
Program Management
77.   This component of the project aims at strengthening the capacity of the EDCD to evaluate
and learn from its operational experiences and to profit from research sponsored by the SRP.
These investigations are aimed at selection of the most cost-effective methods of identifying and
treating infected persons, and of reducing transmission. (Annex 4 and paras. 32 through 42
describe the studies).
78.   The benefits to be derived from this component are impossible to predict accurately. If
the findings of the studies confirm the consensus of professional judgement, a reduction in
operating costs of about LE6.00 million (US$2.00 million) a year could be achieved. (See para.
56 for a discussion of likely sources of improvements in operational efficiency.)
Risks
79.   The procedures for diagnosing the disease and the effectiveness of the drug have been
established through both rigorous controlled trials and practical experience. There is fear that
the parasite might develop resistance to the drug over the long term, but no evidence of
resistance has been documented thus far, despite considerable research effort. The effectiveness
of the commercially available molluscicide has also been convincingly established.



- 27 -
80.   The pesticide is not lethal to fish and other marine animals if applied at the minimum
concentrations required to kill snails. However, in practice, control programs have rarely been
able to regulate the use of molluscicides precisely and thus fish kills have sometimes occurred.
The pesticide is not toxic to humans or other warm-blooded animals. Any fish that might be
killed would be fit for human consumption. The project aims at further reducing the risk to fish
by minimizing reliance on snail control activities. Studies to be carried out under the project
will assess the need to employ molluscicides in order to control disease (as opposed to halting
transmission of the parasite through treatment of infected persons).
81.  In the past, the NSCP has used 120 to 140 metric tons of pesticide per year; the proposed
project would finance a maximum of 40 metric tons per year. Moreover, snail control would
be attempted only in areas that suffer from exceptionally high transmission due to environmental
conditions that cannot be managed otherwise. These transmission sites are expected to be slow
flowing, minor water courses near villages rather than the larger canals that are being developed
as fish farms. Criteria for the use of molluscicides will be established that focus on the intensity
of transmission among humans, rather than on the discovery of infected snails. At Negotiations,
assurances were received that the Government of Egypt would adopt these criteria by J 'ne 30,
1993, and thereafter conduct all snail control activities in compliance with these criteria,
regardless of the source of financing (para. 89.h). The project would develop a rigorous
justification for the use of the pesticide and thereby sharply reduce the quantity being applied.
82.   The long-term success of the program will require sustained financial support from the
Government. The political urgency of controlling the disease may decrease as morbidity and
mortality rates fall. In order to strengthen the NSCP's ability to defend its claims on the public
budget, strategic planning and management functions are being strengthened. Popular support
for the program is also being developed by broadcasting a series of brief messages on television
and radio that remind the public of the consequences of the disease and the options for diagnosis
and treatment. These "spots" have been highly successful thus far in building awareness and
promoting demand for screening. By adopting as its aim the reduction of morbidity rather than
the interruption of transmission, the program avoids the risk that interruptions in the operation
of elements of the control strategy would result in major setbacks to the program.
83.   The project requires substantial amounts of foreign exchange in order to purchase
praziquantel. Drug costs during the maintenance phase are estimated to be about US$2.2 million
a year at the close of the credit in 1998. Egypt already has a private manufacturer of the drug,
but the manufacturer only converts bulk technical ingredients into tablets. The patent for
praziquantel will expire before the close of the credit, allowing greater competition and perhaps
even local production of the technical material. These developments are expected to lead to
further reductions in the price of the drug.
84.   Capturing the full economic benefits from improvements in program design and technical
change may require some re-deployment of staff. The greatest numbers of redundancies are
likely to arise in the snail control program where nearly 6,700 persons are presently employed
in searching for infected snails and applying molluscicides. The cost of snail control activities



- 28 -
has represented approximately 60 percent of the total direct costs of program operations in recent
years.
85.   The project has been designed to allow two years of assistance to the program following
purchase of capital equipment and completion of studies aimed at establishing the need for
modifications to the program. These two years would be used to imbed these reforms in the
practices of the EDCD and NSCP. If co-financing were not to materialize as expected, the
scope of the project would be reduced from six to four years, thereby eliminating the two years
of assistance to the reformed program. This increases the risk that reforms might not be fully
implemented. To reduce this risk, IDA would continue to seek co-financiers and would involve
others in the review of program studies. This would strengthen the Government's resolve in
pursuing greater cost-effectiveness. An informal link has already been established with the SRP
and that link will be strengthened.
86.   The success of efforts to strengthen the capacity of the Ministrv of Health to analyze
policy options, prepare strategic plans, carry out operational research, and strengthen
information systems and management systems would depend on the commitment of senior
officials to these aims. The NSCP is complemented by the SRP, which is managed by the
director general of the EDCD. The SRP has greatly improved the climate for research and
analysis, and has facilitated efforts to introduce the findings of serious research into operations.
The environment for change is therefore exceptionally good.
Social Impact of the Project
87.   Schistosomiasis affects men more than women because men typically spend significantly
more time in contact with water containing infected snails. Boys often swim in the canals and
drains, while girls rarely do, and men frequently work in irrigation canals and drains. While
women often rely on canals and drains for laundering clothes and washing cooking utensils, the
discharge of soapy watei at these sites discourages the growth of snails and thus reduces the risk
of transmission of the parasite. As laundry facilities and domestic water supplies improve, the
effect of schistosomiasis on women is likely to decline further. Women play a major role in
educating children not to urinate or defecate in waterways. In the long-term, schistosomiasis
is expected to become an occupational disease, primarily affecting farmers and fishermen.
88.   The project will support studies of methods for promoting improvements in excreta
disposal and domestic hygiene. In particular, it will experiment with the construction of
community laundry and waste disposal facilities. The project will also reinforce efforts to
improve hygiene through health education. These efforts are expected to benefit women directly
by reducing the time required to carry out domestic tasks and indirectly by reducing their
incidence rate for water-related diseases.



- 29 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
89.   During Negotiations, the following assurances were received:
a.   the EDCD would carry out the studies outlined in Annex 4 and modify the
control strategy in accordance with the findings of the studies (para. 34);
b.   the EDCD would report annually on the findings of its programs of operational
research and strategic planning. At the end of the third year, a review of the
project would be held to assess the progress of the agreed studies, evaluate the
overall performance of the control program and identify any further investigations
and or modifications to be pursued in the final three years of the project (para.
46)
c.   the EDCD would introduce new forms for reporting on the incidence of
schistosomiasis that would allow a single record to be maintained for each child
for the duration of his or her schooling, and would implement data editing and
data management procedures to control the quality of statistical information
(paras. 47-47);
d.   the EDCD each year would prepare a strategic operational plan and a budget that
recognize the resources to be allocated to the program, and the problems and
results being experienced by it. To this end, two planning seminars would be
organized each year, the first for the Delta and second for Middle and Upper
Egypt and the Suez Canal areas (para. 50);
e.   the Government would designate the Director of Project Administration, EDCD,
with staffing and terms of reference acceptable to IDA, to coordinate the work
of implementing governorates, monitor progress, keep project accounts and liaise
with IDA (para. 60);
f.   the EDCD would maintain separate accounts for the project (para. 70);
g.   the Government, within six months of the end of each fiscal year, would provide
IDA with an audit report of such scope and detail as IDA may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against a
certified statement of expenditures (para. 70); and
h.   the Government would conduct all snail control activities, regardless of the source
of financing, in compliance with criteria agreed with the Association (para. 81);
90.   Subject to these conditions, the project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
SDR19.60 million equivalent to the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt.



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
COMPARISON OF HEALTH INDICATORS
FOR LOWER-MIDDLE INCOME COUNTRIES
Average      Infant        Physicians    Nurses
life         mortality    per 1,000     per 1,000    GNP per
expectancy   rate         population    population    *apita
Countty                       (1909)        (1989)       (1984)       (1984)        (1988-90)
ANGOLA                                46           132        17,790        1,020          n.a.
YEMEN, REP                            48           125          n.a.        1,970          n.a.
COTE D'IVOIRE                         53           92            n.a.         n.a.         730
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                      54           59         6,070          880           860
CAMEROON                              57           90           n.a.          n.a.         940
EGYPr                                 60           68           770           n.a.         600
. ...................... .......... .............................................  ..................... ........................................... ......................................... ...... ..........
MOROCCO                               61           69         4,760         1,050           950
LEBANON                               62           n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
GUATEMAIA                             63           55         2,180          850           900
NICARAGUA                             64            57         1,500         530           n.a.
HONDURAS                              65           66          1,510         670           590
ECUADOR                               66           61           820          610           960
SYRIAN ARAB REP.                      66           44          1,260         890          1,010
TUNISIA                               66           46         2,150          370          1,420
JORDAN                                67            53         1,120        1,270         1,240
DOMINICAN REP.                        67           61         1,760         1,210          820
MAURMTlUS                             69           21          1,900          n.a.        2,200
POLAND                                70           16           490          190          1,590
_OSTA RICA                            71            17          960          450          1,910
ALGERIA                               72            69        2,340          300          2,080
JAMAICA                               73            16        2,050          490          1,510
PANAMA                                73           22         1,000          390          1,830
CHILE                                 75            19        1,230          370          1,930
Sowre: World Development Report, 1991, World Bank



- 31 -
AN7 EX 2
A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SCHISTOSOMIASIS
The Parasite
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caure by infection with fluke worms belonging to
the genus Schistosoma (trematoda, platyhelminthes). Five species are able to infect man: S.
haematobium, S. intercalatum, S. mansoni, S. japonicum, S. mekongi. Other schistosome
species are parasites of animals only; some of these may occasionally infect man or hybridize
with human schistosomes.
Adult schistosomes are white-grey worms, 1 to 1.5 centimeters long and 0.2 millimeters
thick, with a cephalic and a ventral sucker; the sexes are separated. They live in the perivesical
(S. haematobiwn) or mesenteric (other human species) veins, where they feed on blood particles.
The female worm is slender and cylindrical, the male has a stouter body with flattened lateral
extensions which hold the female in a "gynaecophoric canal" (figure 1). The female produces
eggs with a characteristic terminal or lateral spine. Schistosomes have an average life span of
three to five years, but may live for up to thirty years.
Transmission Cycle
Schistosomes are transmitted by specific freshwater snails. The transmission cycle is
illustrated in figure 2. The eggs, produced at a rate of 300 to 3,000 per day, excrete proteolytic
enzymes which enable them to penetrate through the interstitial tissue into the intestinal or
vesical lumen. This migration takes several days to weeks; on their way, about half of the eggs
are carried away with the blood stream or trapped in the tissues. The eggs that reach the lumina
are excreted with the feces or the urine, and hatch only if they come into contact with water.
In this case, they release a ciliated mobile larva called miracidium, which remains viable for up
to 48 hours and is attracted by light and by chemical substances excreted by snails. After
penetrating a suitable vector snail, the miracidium migrates to its hepatopancreas, and develops
and divides into sporocysts. After four to six weeks of development, the sporocysts divide into
cercariae--mobile larvae with typical bifurcated tails which leave the snail at a rate of hundreds
to thousands per day. This shedding process, which can go on for months, is stimulated by light
Adaptedfrom an article by Dr. Bruno M.A.J. Gryseels entitled "Morbidity and Mortality Control
of Schistosomiasis Mansoni in Sub Saharan Africa ', (CIP Gegevens Koninkijke Bibliotheek, Den
Haag, 1990).



- 32 -
and warmth. The cercariae swim freely in the water and remain viable for up to 72 hours,
though their infectivity diminishes rapidly. Infection of the definitive host occurs during water
contact; the cercariae pierce the human skin in a few seconds, shed their tail and penetrate into
the subcutaneous capillaries. Thus transformed into schistosomula, they migrate with the
bloodstream to the portal system, where they mature into adult worms in about one month.
After mating, these migrate to the perivesical or mesenteric plexus, where egg production starts.
Figure 1: Schistosornes
____________ Male
S. 
W .  ____________  Female~
Figure 2: The Transmission Cycle of Schistosoma
a" wa
5o~~~~ff                               AIA Y    |~~~Crcri
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ...              ( 



- 33 -
Pathology
The penetration of cercariae through the skin can provoke a rash, known as "swimmer's
itch", which can also be caused by cercariae of animal schistosomes. In the stage of
development into adult worms, a feverish syndrome ("Katayama fever") can develop. Such
acute schistosomiasis is mainly seen in individuals coming into contact with the parasite for the
first time.
The most important pathological consequences are caused by the eggs which are trapped
in the tissues. These give rise to a typical granulomatous reaction and in later stages to fibrosis.
The pathophysiological processed are complex and largely immune-regulated. Severe chronic
disease generally develops only after several years of (heavy) infection.
Urinary schistosomiasis is caused by S. haematobium. The eggs passing through and
trapped in the bladder wall give rise to inflammation, hemorrhages and pseudopolyposis.
Inflammation around the ureteral valves and the ureters cause stenosis, stasis, hydroureter. In
later stages calcification of the bladder wall, bladder stones, hydronephrosis, and kidney failure
may develop. Secondary 'ifection may complicate the clinical picture. There is epidemiological
evidence that urinary schistosomiasis can predispose to bladder carcinoma. The clinical
symptoms of urinary schistosomiasis include (terminal) hematuria, frequent and urgent
micturition, dysuria, and, in later stages, symptoms of bacterial infection, hydronephrosis or
other complications.
Intestinal and hepatosplenic schistosomiasis is caused by S. mansoni or S. japonicum.
Inflammation and formation of pseudopolyps around trapped eggs in the intestinal wall give rise
to (bloody) diarrhoea, abdominal discomfort, colicky pains. Many eggs are transported to the
liver, where they are trapped in the small ramifications of the portal system. Around the eggs,
granulomatous and later fibrous reactions develop. In early stages, reactive hepatomegaly and
splenomegaly are often observed. In advanced chronic cases, the fibrotic lesions around the
portal venules (a pathological pattern known as "Symmers' pipestem fibrosis") increasingly
occlude the portal system. The ensuing portal hypertension leads to splenomegaly, ascites,
intestinal and oesophageal varices; the latter may cause fatal hemorrhages. The hepatocellular
function remains in principle preserved. The severity of disease depends on the intensity and
duration of the infection, and also of still largely unknown immunological and genetic factors.
Th& Intennediate Host
S. mansoni is transmitted by gastropod snails of the genus Biomphalaria, S. haematobium
and S. intercalatum by the genius Bulinus. S. japonicum and S. mekongi are transmitted by
amphibious snails of the species Oncomelania and Tricula. The taxonomy is largely based on
morphological characteristics of the shell and soft parts and has undergone considerable
simplification over the last few decades.  Biochemical and genetic techniques play an
increasingly important role in snail taxonomy, and tend to lead to further simplification. Firm
identification of snail species can be difficult, but is not always of crucial operational



- 34 -
importance. The susceptibility to infection with Schistosoma varies between species, strains and
even individual snails.
The ecology of the snails is variable; most species can adapt to a wide range of ecological
conditions. Biomphalaria and Bulinms tend to prefer still or slow-running waters with a
temperature between 25 and 30 degrees Celsius, which are well-oxygenated, rich in organic
material, slightly acid, moderately conductive, and with sufficient levels of calcium and
magnesium. Snail populations often show marked seasonal variations, related to rainfall,
temperature and irrigation cycles. The pattern of these seasonal variations can vary according
to local conditions.
Snails produce large quaitities of eggs, generally after cross-fertilization, but
hermaphroditic reproduction is possible. Under favorable conditions, snail populations double
in a few weeks; one snail is sufficient to colonize a water body in a few months.
Transmission Dynamics
The theoretical reproduction potential of schistosomes is enormous. In a stable endemic
situation, this potential is diluted to an average reproduction rate of one. The maintenance of
parasite populations depends thus on a complex set of relations, determined by many factors at
various levels of the transmission cycle. So far, a satisfactory epidemiological model has not
been forwarded. Transmission factors as well as host-related factors have been considered as
key factors to the process, but biological data measuring the dynamics of each step in the
transmission cycle are scarce.
The proportion of eggs reaching water is probably very low. Based on the age-related
distribution of egg counts, it can be estimated that children and adolescents are responsible for
60 to 80 percent of the potential contamination.
Infection rates in snails are generally less than 5 percent, with considerable variations in
time and space. Infected snails show increased mortality and infertility. The production of
cercariae is influenced by snail susceptibility, temperature and light.
Human water contact patterns vary according to the ecological situation and social,
economic and cultural factors. Generally, children have the most intense water contact. In most
areas, domestic and recreational activities are responsible for at least half of the contacts. The
contribution of occupational contacts depends on local conditions.
The importance of protective immunity in humans has been the subject of long debate.
Recent studies indicate that an effective but complex cellular immunity, regulated by various
(sub)classes of antibodies, develops after several years of (re)exposure.



- 35 -
Morbidity
The importance of schistosomiasis as a public health probi2m varies from one country
and focus to another. The heterogeneity of the morbidity patterns can partly be explained by
varying intensities of infection, but probably other host and parasite-related factors are of
importance as well.
In communities affected by urinary schistosomiasis, generally over 60 percent of the
infected individuals show microscopic hematuria; depending on the intensity of infections, gross
hematuria may be seen in up to 20 percent or more of the children, and lesions of the lower and
upper urinary tract can be radiologically or sonographically demonstrated in 10 to 50 percent
or more of the population. Still, most infections remair. largely asymptomatic; many lesions
diminish or disappear spontaneously over the years. Mortality is low, though some autopsy
studies and longitudinal community surveys indicate that urinary schistosomiasis may be an
indirect cause of death, particularly in young adults.
The morbidity due to S. manson, is more difficult to visualize and measure. Increased
frequencies of diarrhoea and particularly dysenteric syndromes, which can sometimes be fatal,
have clearly been attributed to the infection. Increased rates of hepatomegaly and splenomegaly
can generally be associated with the presence and intensity of infection, particularly in children.
Decompensated portal hypertension, leading to ascites, cachexia, oesophageal bleeding, is or was
a major health problem in Brazil, Egypt, Sudan and some other African foci.
Control
Without profound modification of the ecological factors determining the population
dynamics of the parasite, transmission levels cannot be durably affected. Eradication can only
be achieved through significant socio-economic progress, which is not in view for most endemic
areas.
A more realistic objective in schistosomiasis control is the reduction of the prevalences
and intensities of infection to levels at which morbidity becomes rare. This can be pursued by
reducing transmission, or more directly by the large-scale treatment of infected individuals.
Chemothea. Morbidity control through large-scale, community-based chemotherapy
has become in recent years the most widely advocated strategy, due to the development of safe,
effective single dose drugs and of adapted screening techniques. Different strategies can be
applied. In selective treatment the members of the target community are screened (with direct
or indirect techniques); positive individuals are treated. In targetted treatment, the screening is
followed by the treatment of individuals with high egg counts only. In mass treatment, all
individuals of the target community are treated indiscriminately. Each of these strategies can
be applied in selected target groups (for example, school children), or in combined or phased
approaches (for example, first mass, later selective treatment).



- 36 -
Community-based chemotherapy generally gives impressive results on the short term.
However, as control is required mainly in areas with high levels of transmission, rapid
reinfection is the rule rather than the exception; the impact of chemotherapy on transmission
appears to be limited, even if indiscriminate treatment is applied. In the absence of effective,
sustained transmission control, treatment has to be repeated at intervals of a few years or less
for a still undetermined period. Furthermore, the need for continuity requires integration in
regular health structures. Vertical approaches based on mobile teams may have attractive
advantages on the short term, but are expensive and difficult to sustain.
Snail control. Snai' control with chemical molluscicides was the main strategy until
modern drugs became available. The complexity of transmission patterns, the technical and
logistical requirements, the high costs of mollusciciding and ecological considerations are some
of the problems contributing to the decreasing popularity of this control method.
The only compound still on the market is Bayluscide, a wettable powder with 70 percent
active matter (niclosamide). It is highly effective in concentrations of I to 3 ppm maintained
for 6 to 8 hours, and is non-toxic for warm-blooded animals. The potential for regeneration and
reinvasion of snail populations is impressive, however, and generally they re-establish in a
period of months. Mollusciciding has thus to be frequently repeated to be effective, though
studies of the local dynamics of snail populations and transmission patterns may help to develop
more limited and still efficient mollusciciding programs. Molluscicides are expensive and their
correct application requires specialized mobile teams. Large-scale snail control is therefore out
of reach of most endemic countries. "Focal" mollusciciding in selected transmission sites is an
alternative, but the identification of the microfoci and periods of transmission can be surprisingly
difficult.
Various plants with mollusciciding properties (for example, Ambrosia Maritima,
Phytolacca dodecandra) have been identified. Due to toxicity problems, low efficacy, and
logistical constraints, their application has so far been limited to experimental situations.
Biological snail control is in principle possible through the introduction of predators (fish,
ducks, other snails) or competitor snails (for example, Marisa comuarietis), however,
operational experiences are limited. Even if snail populations are reduced, an ecological
equilibrium in which transmission continues can be expected to set in. The introduction of new
species in an environment is moreover not without ecologic or even economic dangers.
Physical snail control can be pursued by proper engineering of hydraulic infrastructures:
concrete lining of canals, ensuring high water velocity, strong slopes, adequate water
management, weed control, periodical flushing and emptying of canals. Such interventions are
generally expensive or difficult to implement and maintain.
Sanitary and health education. Sanitation and health education are clearly the pillars of
durable control and deserve priority, in view of the broadness of their impact. Faecal or urinary
contamination can be reduced by the construction of latrines.  A significant impact on



- 37 -
transmission can, however, not be expected as long as they are not consistently used by a large
majority of the population. Reduction of water contact has a more direct effect on transmission.
Safe water supplits, foot bridges, public laundries, showers, etc. can considerably reduce human
exposure. Adequate designs adapted to the needs and attitudes of the population are essential,
and proper maintenance must be assured. Any action should obviously be reinforced by health
education, in which not only the health services but also educational, socio-cultural, agricultural
structures and the mass media can be involved. Realistic messages, consideration of cultural
attitudes, targetted approaches, and adapted didactic material and methods are key factors to
success. However, only a gradual and partial modification of human behavior should be
expected.
In the present socio-economic conditions of most endemic countries, the results of
sanitation and health education can be expected only on the long-term. Given the limited
capacities of most health services, intersectorial cooperation and financing are indispensable.
Proper planning and implication of health ministries in development programs should be the rule
for governments and funding agencies.
Vaccination
Immunogenic antigens have been defined and some cloned, fueling the hope for a
vaccine. Trials in animals have produced mixed results, and the application in humans is not
for the forseeable future.



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
THE PROJECT AREA
Table 1: DescriptIon (Characterlstucs) of Governorates In Eastern and Western Delta
Number   Number                                          Length
Governorate   Estimated    Average      of rural    of rural   Number   Number   Cultivated    water
population   prevalence    health     health       of         of         area      courses
units     clinics    hospitals   villages   (Feddans)    (km)
Dakahlia       3,802,765        23.8        206         56          6         435     608,000    46,500
Sharkia        3,715,528        21.4        18S         45          3        473      650,000    48,000
Qalubia        2,731,409        10.0         82         23          8         190     205,000    12,000
Alexandria,    3,169,308        10.9         19          2          0           0     800,000    59,000
Rural
El Behema      3,538,502        30.5        190         43          3         425      100,000     2,300
............ .................. ..................... ............................................................................ ....................... .............. ....................
Total        16,957,512        96.6        682         169         20      1,523   2,363,000   167,800
Source: Ministry of Health, Govemment of Egypt



- 39 -
Tabk 2: Prtvaknc  f Infectdon In Middle and Upper Egypt and the Suez Canal Area
(Numbers of Distriats by provalenco rte for selected years, 1977-1990)
Pievalenco ratc     1977     1981      1985    1986    1987      1988     1989      1990
Mfddk Egypt
Beni Suef                         0-10       5                 77       87       88       92       84       100
10-20     30         ..      34       27       28       22       30        16
20+       81        ..       5        2        0        2        2         0
Mania                             0-10       9         ..    104       120      148      148      112       146
10-20     22                 80       76       48       48       84        55
20+       17                18        6        6        6        6         1
Asuit Nozth                       0-10       2                 27       34       17       18       33        42
10-20     20                 30       25       35       38       27        21
20+       42                 7        5       1 2       8        4         1
,,,,,4,,,.,,,,,.,,,,,,........,5 ...................................................... .   ............  ........   . 
Total                             0-10      16               208      241      253      258      229       288
10-20     72                144      128      III      108      141        92
20+      294         ..     30       13       18       16        12        2
Upper Egypt
Assuit South                      0-10        ..       7       24       21       17       27       43        58
10-20               36       32       43       45       33       29        19
20+        ..      37       24       16       18       20        8         3
Sohaq                             0-10        ..      24       55       51       51       57       88        11
10-20               59       90       92       83       80       72        S0
20+                97       35       37       46       43       20        11
Quena                             0-10                 5       34       39       36        9       12        31
10-20               48       69       70       68       83       78        76
20+               110       60       54       59       71       73        56
Auwan                             0-10                42       78       80       73       76       79        80
10-20               20        2        0        6        4        1         0
20+                18        0        0        1       ,,        0         0
Total                             0-10       ..      78      191      191      177      169      222        28
10-20       ..    163       193      205      202      200      180        14
20+        ..    262       119      107      124      134      101        70
Suez Canal Region
Suez                              0-10        ..                4        4        5        7        7         7
10-20       ..       ..       3        2        2        0        0         0
20+        ..       ..       0        1        0        0        0         0
Tamalyia                          0-10        ..       ..       8       12        5        5        6        11
10-20       ..       ..      12        9       15       13       15        11
20+                 ..       7        6        7        9        6         5
Port Said                         0-10        ..       ..       3        3        3        4        4         4
10-20                .,       I        I        I        I        I         I
20+                  ..      I        I        I        0        0         0
Damitta                           0-10        ..                5        7        5        7        7         8
10-20       ..       ..      17       17       15       13       18        25
20+        ..       ..      35       33       37       37       32        24
Manzala                           0-10        ..       ..       0        0        0        0        0         0
10-20       ..       ..       0        1        2        3        5         5
20+        ..       ..      20       19       18       17       IS        is
Hossenia                          0-10                 ..       3        4        3        6        5         3
10-20                ..      12       12       12        8       10         8
20+        ..                8        7        8        9        8        12
.  ................................................................................. ................................................._ ._
Total                             0-10       ..       ..      23       30       21       29       29        33
10-20       ..       ..      45       42       47       38       49        50
20+        ..       ..      71       67       71       72       61        56
not available.
Source: Ministy of Health, Govenment of Egypt



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
PROTOCOLS FOR OPERATIONAL RESEARCH
Schistosomiasis Control Program: Operational Research
I. Introduction
The extension of the National Schistosomiasis Control Programme (NSCP) to the Nile
Delta, and the reinforcement of maintenance strategies in the rest of Egypt, will require the
introduction of new operational approaches. Screening methods, treatment schedules, snail
control strategies, procedures for data management and decision making, will have to be
adapted.
A large-scale operational control program such as the Egyptian NSCP should not be
overloaded with research, however interesting. Standard methods for schistosomiasis control
are to some extent available. However, the size and importance of the NSCP justifies an
optimal adaptation of methods to its specific requirements. Furthermore, methodological
changes must be evaluated in order to allow comparison of past and future results.
A fortunate circumstance in this critical period of extension and adaptation of the NSCP
is the presence of the USAID-funded Schistosomiasis Research Project (SRP). Besides
immunological and biochemical work, SRP supports extensive epidemiological and operational
research which will answer some of the operational questions. For other practical studies, it
may be difficult to interest academic research groups. Moreover, EDCD should maintain the
capacity to perform independent operational research and quality control. It would thus be
useful to create also an operational research team at the Ministry of Health. In the following
pages, the strategies of the proposed project will be summarized.  On this basis, main
operational questions which are now apparent, and possible protocols to answer them will be
outlined. The list of questions is not exhaustive, and relates mainly to issues not specifically or
not completely addressed by SRP. The protocols and decision levels are tentative, incomplete
and somtimes arbitrary; they should mainly serve as guidelines for the establishment of definitive
protocols by the Ministry of Health and involved research groups.
II. Strategies
A. CLemotherapy
In the new project area, the existing strategies for selective population chemotherapy will
be implemented. Based on the results of operational research, the following modifications may
be considered:



- 41 -
1.1. Introduction of more sensitive, reproduci'le and cost-efficient screening techniques.
* Urinary schistosomiasis could be screened with reagent strips for haematuria, and
confirmed by urine sedimentation or filtration.
* For intestinal schistosomiasis, the Kato technique could be used, preferably with
reusable metal equipment.
* Quantification of the eggs for monitoring purposes may be done in all or a random
sample of the Kato slides and urine filters.
O For all symptomatic out-patients, microscopic diagnosis is maintained.
1.2. Target groups remain schoolchildren, outpatients and community samples.
* For schoolchildren, bi-annual selective population chemotherapy is maintained.
Within three years research will indicate if and when treatment can become less frequent.
* Among outpatients, symptomatic cases have priority. Screening of non-symptomatic
patients will depend on capacity.
* The rotating sample component will be redefined based on a careful evaluation of
past experiences. For monitoring purposes, a statistically valid rotating 10 percent sample
should be examined yearly by governorate or district mobile teams. Community
coverage should be pursued pragmatically, with emphasis on specific risk areas and risk
groups.
B. Focal Snail Control and Environmental Intervention.
2. 1. A focal strategy for malacological surveillance and snail control will be applied, based on
the selection of high-transmission villages and hamlets, and mapping of (re)infection and
transmission patterns within the villages.
* Cut-off values for transmission control intervention will be defined. Tentatively,
"problem" villages or hamlets with an initial prevalence in school children over 50%
percent, or in which the prevalence after three years of selective population
chemotherapy has not been reduced to less than 15 percent can be targeted.
* Local epidemiological data, complemented with malacological and sociological
information will be used to detect main transmission sites.
* Area-wide snail surveys will be reduced or discontinued. For the focal snail
surveillance, more sensitive survey methods will be applied.
* Rapid assessment procedures for the identification of water contact sites, based on
questionnaires and/or direct observation, will be used.
* Within 3-4 years, the feasibility and cost-efficiency of focal mollusciciding will be
re-evaluated.



- 42 -
2.2. Increased emphasis will be given to environmental and sanitary interventions and health
education.
*   Where possible, high-transmission sites will be eliminated or modified by
environmental or sanitary measures. Possible interventions are the construction of public
laundries, showers, domestic drainage systems, identification of safe bathing sites.
* Health education will be strengthened by developing didactic material and methods
for schools and other target groups such as women, based on surveys of Knowledge-
Attitudes-and-Practices (SRP), and intra-sectoral and inter-sectoral collaboration.
* A multi-disciplinary task force will develop a concrete plan for research and action
for health education and sanitation within a year.
C. Monitoring and Decisionmaking
3.1. Rural health unit data will be submitted to quality control, including:
* Re-examination of a random sample of filters and slides by superiors.
* Prompt verification of inconsistencies in monthly reports.
* Field and administrative checks of the quality of selective population chemotherapy
campaigns.
3.2. Reinfection and incidence rates will be included in the reports.
* Forms will be introduced which keep track of each child over the years.
* Treated out-patients and sample subjects are followed after 1 year.
* New and reinfected cases are mapped geographically to detect micro-foci.
3.3. The returns from the target groups will be tabulated per rural health unit from year to year,
for schools per semester, and compiled on the district and governorate level. Supplemented with
reinfection patterns, they will orient targeted chemotherapy and snail control. Governorate
and/or district mobile teams will initiate and further assist the local analysis.
3.4. The national level remains responsible for over-all supervision, coordination and strategy
development.
* Definition of cut-off prevalence (and/or intensity) values for eritering attack and
maintenance phases, of the geographic level at which they are declared, and the strategy
shifts between phases.
* Definition of cut-off values for intensive focal intervention.
* Translation of results of operational research in concrete strategies.
* Yearly strategic operational and budgetary plans in function of the results of control
and research, and operational experience.
3.5. Besides infection rates, the program should be evaluated in terms of morbidity, based on
ultrasound studies (SRP) and hospital data.



- 43 -
3.6. Computerization of the data ;1 be gradually introduced at the level of the Ministry of
Health and the govemorates.
EII. Tentative Operational Research Protocols
A. Selection of Screening Methods
Rationale
In the Delta, intestinal schistosomiasis (due to S. mansoni) is predominant; in Upper and
Middle Egypt, where the NSCP has been implemented so far, urinary schistosomiasis (S.
haematobium), is the main problem. Screening will have to be performed for both parasites,
in millions of people per year, by a limited number of technicians. Priority will have to be
given to S. mansoni infections, the morbidity of which is graver and diagnosis more difficult.
Screening the relatively rare and light cases of urinary schistosomiasis should take as little time,
effort and cost as possible.
The screening methods used so far are based on the sedimentation of schistosome eggs
in conical flasks or test tubes; faeces are first mixed with saline and sieved. The sediment is
examined under the microscope. If well performed, these methods are sensitive, specific, simple
and cheap. They are, however, time consuming, depend on fragile glassware, do not provide
quantitative data, and offer limited possibilities for standardization and quality control.
Egyptian health personnel has a long experience and tradition with these techniques, on
which most of the available data and results are based. Clearly, changes of methodology must
be well docu .:ented and prepared. On the other hand, it is crucial to reinforce local monitoring
data, and therefore to introduce quantitative., reproducible techniques.
Such techniques have been developed and widely tested in many countries over the past
decade. The Kato technique for S. mansoni consists essentially of calibrating 25 to 50 mg sieved
faeces in a punched template; this thick smear of faeces is spread under a piece of glycerine-
soaked cellophane, allowing the faeces to clear and be examined microscopically. Urine
filtration for S. haematobiwn consists of filtrating a certain volume (generally 10 ml) of urine
over a paper, millipore or nitrocellulose filter, which after (optional) staining can be examined
directly under the microscope. Both methods allow to quantify the schistosome eggs in a
calibrated amount of excreta, and thus to assess indirectly the intensity of infection, which is
correlated with the risk of disease.  For urinary schistosomiasis, also indirect screening
techniques based on the detection of haematuria with reagent strips have shown to be simple,
sensitive and rapid.
These new methods have also some disadvantages. They require manipulation of small
equipment such as filters and templates. Though cheap, supplies (of cellophane, filters, reagent
strips) have to be assured, possibly against hard currency. Reusable equipment must be cleaned
carefully to avoid parasite eggs to contaminate other samples. Reagent strip for hematuria are
sensitive to climatic conditions and deteriorate rapidly once unpacked. Various kinds of
equipment and procedures are available for each methods; full standardization has certainly not
been reached. In a large scale program such as the Egyptian NSCP (in the Delta alone, close



- 44 -
to 20 million screenings per year would be performed), a careful evaluation of the various
techniques and equipment to be used is certainly wuarranted.
B. Evaluation of Inherent Qualities of Tests
Study populations
* Three villages are selected for each parasite, with different prevalence and/or
intensity levels: e.g. prevalence <20%; 20-50%; >50%. Intensities will generally be
correlated but should be checked.
In principle, six villages are thus examined but combined studies on both parasites may
be possible.
* In each village 300 to 500 randomly selected people of all age groups are examined,
before, two months and one year after treatment. Possibly, the study can be combined
with cure rate studies (see 2).
Methods
The following techniques are applied for each individual, by a specialized research team
(Ministry of Health or SRP):
Stool examination:
* Usual routine sedimentation technique.
* Standard Kato-Katz method (disposable plastic World Health Organizatiun/GTZ 43
mg-templates).
* Alternative Kato method with durable metal equipment; both 25 mg and 50 mg
templates are used.
* A 10 percent sample of the Kato slides is read after 1, 3, 6, 24, 48 hours
respectively.
Urine:
* Routine sedimentation technique.
* Urine filtration (10 ml) on nitrocellulose, paper, nucleopore filters.
* Hematuria reagent strips of cheap brands e.g. those (to be) produced by PATH.



- 45 -
Practical problems, e.g.:
*  Numbering and storing slides/filters.
*  Clogging of urine filters, staining.
*  Kato slides from liquid or hard stools.
*  Cleaning re-usable equipment (plastic templates, urine filters).
*  Hygienic aspects.
*  Shelf-life of reagent strips, by comparing results after increasing intervals (1 day-2
weeks) after opening vial.
Analysis:
* Comparison of the sensitivity and specificity of different methods over-all, per age
group, per egg count group against a "golden standard" of combined results of egg-
detection methods.
*  Cost in local and hard currency.
*  Time required for preparing and reading sl. les/filters.
*  Optimal clearance time for Kato slides.
*  Cost, performance and feasibility of re-usable versus disposable equipment.
*  Practical feasibility.
*  Shelf life of reagent strips.
C. Evaluation of Primary Health Care-applicability of Tests
Study populations
Twenty "average" rural health unit-technicians are selected, trained and equipped to perform one
(one for each parasite) of the new screening techniques in their rural health unit.
Methods
* The new techniques are applied by the technicians in a routine screening campaign
(e.g.  500 school children each). Stools and urine are collected in the schools, slides
and filters are prepared and examined in the rural health unit.
* Stool and urine samples are kept for quality control.
* A research team daily collects the Kato slides, urine filters, stool and urine samples
of the day.
* Registers and identification of samples and slides/filters are checked.
* The team records the number of slides/filters prepared and/or examined per day and
the time this has required.
* Time and supplies required for cleaning reusable equipment are recorded; the quality
of cleaning and practical problems are assessed.



- 46 -
* In its own laboratory, the team evaluates: (i) Quality of (a sample of) Kato slides:
weight, clarity, identification; (ii) Quality of urine filters: mounting, staining, identifica-
tion; (iii) Quantitative and qualitative accurateness of rural health unit-results by re-
examining all slides (N.B. allow for possible further clearance of Kato slides after first
examination); (iv) New Kato slides and filters are prepared from (a sample) of the
collected stools and urines; results are compared with rural health unit-slides.
Analysis
* Comparison of qualitative and quantitative results obtained by rural health unit
technicians and research teams.
* Time needed for preparing and examining slides and filters and for cleaning
equipment; possible work volume per day.
* Feasibility of tests in school/rural health unit setting; maintenance of technical and
hygienic standards.
Expected outcome
Within one year, the two studies should lead to a documented decision about the
screening method to be applied for both parasites.  Tentatively, the following minimal
requirements could be envisaged:
Kato method:
* Sensitivity equal or higher than the sedimentation method (as applied routinely in
rural health units).
* Unit cost of consumables and equipment less than 0.05 LE.
* Correct and hygienic handling by rural health unit-technicians.
* Daily number of slides per technician minimally 30/day.
* Preference to reusable metal equipment with template size 50 mg.
Reagent strip technique for screening urine:
* Sensitivity > 85% for all infections (detected by sedimentation and/or filtration) and
> 95% for infections over 50 eggs/lOml.
* Specificity > 90%; filtration (or sedimentation) may be used as confirmation
technique, and/or in a sample of the urines to provide quantitative monitoring data.
* Cost < 0.10 LE / unit.
* Shelf life at least 1 week.
* Correct handling and reading by technicians.



- 47 -
Urine filtration technique (for diagnosis or confirmation):
*  Sensitivity equal or higher than sedimentation technique.
* Daily volume minimally 30 filtrations per day.
*  Proper handling by rural health unit-technicians.
*  Cost per unit in consumables < 0.10 LE.
* Preference for paper filters (cheap, can be numbered, but clog easily); choice
depends on cost and operational aspects.
The proportion of Kato slides and filters to be read quantitatively by rural health unit-staff
should be at least 10%, e.g. every 10th slide. The study should also contribute to the
development of adequate forms and quality control procedures. Recommendations for the local
manufacturing of equipment and supplies will be formulated.
D. Choice of Drug
Rationale
Since 1985, praziquantel in a single dose of 40 mg/kg body weight, with a maximum of
2,400 mg (4 tablets), is the standard treatment for all forms of schistosomiasis in the SCP.
Millions of doses of praziquantel have been distributed over the past years; the consumption has
further increased after the introduction of the health education campaign on bilharzia on
television. Initially, the drug was obtained in its original formulation from Bayer (BiltricideR),
later from Shin Poong Company in South Korea (DistocidR). In recent years the drug is
produced under license from the latter company within Egypt. The current gross price is 0.80
LE/tablet.
All batches are submitted to the quality control department of the Ministry of Health, so
far with consistently satisfactory results for the contents of active substance. A comparison of
field results with various brands has so far not been performed in Egypt.
Analysis of the results of the treatment campaigns shows that, after an initial decrease,
prevalences tend to stabilize in spite of repeated treatment. This phenomenon is most probably
the result of reinfection and screening failures. However, the possibility of reduced drug
efficacy due to emergence of resistance (SRP) or to pharmacological (formulation, water
solubility) differences between brands, must be excluded.
Study populations
The study should take place preferably in the low transmission season.
Four comnrjnities are selected (two for S. mansoni, two for S. haematobium) with prevalences
> 50%. In each village,  500 people are raildomly selected.



- 48 -
Methods
* All subjects are screened with Kato method and/or urine filtration, from at least two
stool/urine sample per individual.
* Positives are treated with praziquantel 40 mg/kg in three (blind) randomly selected
groups: Biltricide, Distocid (South Korea) and Distocid (Egypt).
* Treated individuals are interviewed with a standardized questionnaire for side-effects,
1 hour and 24 hours after treatment.
* Treated individuals are re-examined 6 weeks and 12 weeks after treatment with the
same parasitological metJods (minimally 2 samples).
* This study could be associated with a reinfection study by re-examining the
communities 12 and 24 months after treatment.
Analysis
Comparison between brands, by parasite, by age group, by egg count group, of:
* % of treated subjects becoming negative (cure rates).
*  % reduction of people with intense infections (> 100/400 epg, >50 eplOml).
* % reduction of geometric egg counts of positive individuals (egg count reduction
rates).
* Side-effects experienced with various brands.
E:xpected outcome
Within 1 year, any significant difference between brands of praziquantel should be
documented. Preference remains to be given to Egyptian Distocid, (cheapest and least hard
currency cost). If necessary, a pharmacological evaluation should be made (SRP), and
recommendations for the manufacturer formulated.
D. Choice of Optimal Interval for Screening and Treatment
Rationale
The strategy for morbidity control in children is based so far on six-monthly screening
and treatment. This arbitrary schedule is partly based on an objective of transmission control by
reducing egg output in the community. National and international experience now shows that
transmission is probably little affected by (selective) population chemotherapy. Strategies should
thus be primarily devised in function of morbidity control, for which less frequent treatment may
be sufficient, with an obvious effect on the cost of the program. It may furthermore be expected
that by improving the quality of screening, fewer missed cases will be "recovered" at a next
screening. The required frequency of treatment will probably depend on the level of endemicity
and morbidity, and vary between program phases.



- 49 -
Study populations
The study would concentrate on S. mansoni areas; a similar study could be performed also for
S. haematobium in other areas. Six groups of 500 children each, of the age group 6-10 years,
will be selected for the study, three with a prevalence >50%, three with a prevalence <50%.
Methods
* All children are submitted to parasitological (Kato, urine filtration), clinical (history,
clinical examination), ultrasound examination.
* In each endemicity setting, one group is submitted to six-monthly, one to yearly, one
to two-yearly Pcreening and selective treatment.
* In yearly follow-ups, presence and intensity of infection and morbidity are re-
assessed, with the same methods, in the entire study groups (negatives and positives).
The study will last at least 4 years, possibly longer. Children leaving school will be followed
up as much as possible.
Analysis
Comparison between strategies and between endemicity settings of:
* Evolution of infection rates and intensities.
* Evolution of intestinal and hepatic (urinary) morbidity.
* Costs of screening, manpower, and drugs.
* Cost/efficiency of various strategies, as expressed per unit cost of prevented case of
mild/severe pathology.
E:xpected outcome
Within 3-4 years a documented decision should be taken concerning the required intervals for
screening and treatment in school children in high- and low endemicity conditions, respectively.
Within 5-6 years, a documented decision should be taken on the adaptation of the treatment
frequency according to the proeram phase. As a tentative guideline, it could e.g. be proposed
that higher frequency treatment should result in a 20% increase of morbidity reduction.
E. Development of Focal Strategies
Rationale
Until 1986, transmission control was based on area-wide mollusciciding through main
supply canals. This strategy could not be maintained because of its high cost and ecological
concerns. Operational experience with population chemotherapy moreover indicates, that snail
control did not result everywhere in as much reduction of transmission and reinfection as might
have been expected. Consequently, the strategy was shifted to more focal snail control;
mollusciciding is concentrated in villages where (re)infection rates are high (>20%).
Structures, resource allocation, procedures and methods in monitoring and intervention have not



- 50 -
yet been adapted to the new strategy, which requires detailed and reliable monitoring of
epidemiological and malacological indices.
In most areas covered by the SCP, over-all prevalences and intensities have generally
been reduced by 50 to 90%. After a strong initial decrease, they tend to stabilize, however,
around 10-15%, in spite of continued intense chemotherapy and mollusciciding. On a local
level, this threshold varies strongly from one district and village to another. The phenomenon
and the relative contribution of reinfection, new cases, defects in screening, treatment and
reporting remain largely unexplained. In order to improve control results further, focal
transmission control and risk-group targeted chemotherapy is probably necessary. Focal
transmission patterns and risk factors for reinfection must thus be analyzed at the local level.
Study areas
Twenty (parts of) villages with prevalences over 50% (of S. mansoni and/or S. haematobiwn)
are selected, each with  500 inhabitants.
Methods
* In each village, houses, families and schistosomiasis cases are mapped. Data on cases
are provided by local rural health unit-data.
* In 10 villages, these data are checked by surveys by research teams.
* During a one-year period, waterways and snail populations are carefully mapped and
monitored at monthly intervals in each village.
* Besides the actual dip-technique, intensive, standardized (semi-) quantitative methods
will be applied (e.g. two snail prospectors searching intensively, for 15').
* Water contact sites are mapped with rapid assessment procedures, based on
interviews and inspection. Results are compared to more laborious longitudinal
observation methods.
* After one year, focal snail control is started in main transmission sites in ten of the
villages, defined on the basis of mapping of cases, water contact and snail populations.
Snail control continues on a monthly basis (during the transmission season) for at least
two years.
* In the other villages, no transmission control measures are carried out.
* Population chemotherapy is implemented according to the usual strategy, by the local
rural health unit-teams. Reinfection rates and patterns are mapped after each school
survey; again, the data are checked and supplemented by research teams in a sample of
the populations. Adequate forms to follow up children and patients over consecutive
years are developed.



- 51 -
Analysi
* Comparison of qualitative (detection of infested sites) and quantitative (number of
[infected] snails) sensitivity of snail survey methods.
* Development and evaluation of procedures for mapping cases on the basis of rural
health unit-data, as compared to survey data.
* Development and evaluation of rapid assessment procedures for mapping water
contact sites, as compared to extensive observations.
+ Comparison of evolution of snail population and snail infection rates in molluscicided
and control villages.
* Comparison of incidence and reinfection rates and patterns in molluscicided villages
and control villages.
* Evaluation of costs of focal snail control and snail surveillance.
* Analysis of demographic, sociological, geographic, ecological characteristics of
groups/areas at risk for rapid reinfection.
* Evaluation of feasibility of detecting risk group/areas on the basis of rural health
unit-data, and feasibility and cost-efficiency of targeted chemotherapy.
* Comparison of cost-efficiency of focal snail control in terms of reduced reinfection
rates and of more frequent (targeted) chemotherapy.
Expected outcome
* Within 1-2 years, methods and procedures for sensitive malacological monitoring and
mapping water contact patterns are developed.
* Within 2-3 years, the feasibility and cost-efficiency of detection of (micro)foci with
intense transmission and (re)infection, on the basis of rural health unit-data and rapid
assessment procedures are evaluated.
* Within 3-4 years, a documented decision is made about the relevance and feasibility
of focal mollusciciding in different ecological and epidemiological conditions.
* Within 3-4 years, a documented decision is made about the relevance and feasibility
of targeted chemotherapy in risk eroups and/or risk foci.
* Within 3-4 years, documented cut-off prevalence or intensity rates, and/or ecological
characteristics which determine the relevance and feasibility of focal snail control, are
defined.
* The study villages should also be used for research (via SRP, Ministry of Health or
other groups) on socio-cultural, technical, feasibility, and cost aspects of health education
and sanitary engineering to reduce water contact.
F. Evaluation and Reinforcement of Monitoring, Surveillance and Evaluation
Rationale
The integration of the SCP in the primary health care system is its great strength and
assures its sustainability. It also inevitably implies variability of quality, whereas focal
interventions for transmission or morbidity control depend crucially on local data. Improving
the quality, standardization, interpretation of, and response to, local data is essential.



- 52 -
Study populations and methods
This undertaking cannot be captured in a single study in a few villages; it concerns many
issues at all levels of the SCP.
At the ocal level, previously mentioned studies (screening methods, focal pattern
analysis), will provide part of the necessary data and experiences. Forms and procedures to
record data in a more simple way, but allowing for the follow-up of individual patients, should
be developed.
At tRe district and governorate level, data from some 20 villages in various areas under
control, some selected on the basis of inconsistent or unsatisfactory results, should be
retrospectively analyzed over the past 10 years:
* Technical quality of screening: training, equipment, supervision.
* Population coverage rates; quality, frequency of 10% population samples.
* Records and results of quality control.
* History of snail control measures.
* Reliability of recording, tabulating, transmission of data, a.o. by comparing results
at various levels.
* Feed-back, correction and decision making processes.
* Epidemiological, demographic, ecological evaluation: concentration of cases in some
parts or hamlets; conditions favoring transmission; accessibility to health services and
schools; population characteristics.
At the national level, major policy decisions over the past ten years should be reviewed
and analyzed:
*   On which basis have they been taken (epidemiological data, cost-efficiency
considerations)?
* How have specific monitoring mechanisms (independent monitoring teams, 10%
population samples) functioned and contributed to policy decisions?
* How have they been translated in concrete operational decisions and guidelines for
the executing levels?
* How have methods, structures and equipment been adapted to the new needs?
* How have strategy shifts been introduced, understood and implemented at the
peripheral level?
* How has implementation and results been supervised and evaluated at various levels?
* How have the results led to new strategic decisions?



- 53 -
Expected outcome
Within 2-4 years:
Local level (see previous studies)
* Protocols and forms for quality control (of screening and quality of field activities)
by district or govemorate teams are operational.
* New simple forms for recording (longitudinal) results in schoolchildren and the
population samp.es are developed.
* Tabulating, correction and reporting procedures are developed.
* Cases of infection and reinfection are roughly mapped, and focal patterns within
village recognized.
District and Governorate level:
* Unsatisfactory and inconsistent results from the past are at least partly understood;
if possible, problems are translated in adaptations or into operational . search.
* Quality control and supervision of rural health unit-actions is operational.
* In collaboration with rural health unit-teams, governorate and district staff select
problem villages, map micro-foci and take documented decisions for focal
mollusciciding, environmental intervention, and/or targeted chemotherapy.
Governorate and National level:
* The role of the independent monitoring teams is redefined.
e Transparent procedures for the 10% population samples are established.
* Computerized data processing facilitates detection of inconsistencies, selection of
problem villages and areas, longitudinal follow-up of local results, central reporting and
feed-back.
* Strategic and operational decisions, e.g. determination of cut-off prevalence rates for
transmission control and for program phasing, have been taken on the basis of objective
data from operational research, control results, cost-efficiency and management consider-
ations.
* Past and present strategic shifts are translated in reasonable adaptations of structures
and resource allocation.
* Yearly strategic plans of action and budgeting are developed and evaluated each year,
for each project area, in planning seminars with Ministry of Health staff, governorate
staff, facilitators and consultant(s).



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
DETAILED COST TABLES



Table 1: Expandng the Coverage of the Nadond Schistosomlasis Control Programen lnto the Mie Dela
(in US$ ndmions)
1992 Prices           Schedud xpenditures by Year In Current Prices   Total Expeandtures
Total  Local  Fordgn         93     94    95    96    97    98          Tota   Loeal  Fordgn
Laboratory Eqsdpmns
Microscopcs                 l.50   0.00     1.50         1.20  0.31   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00         1.51    O.C0    1.51
Small Labotratory Equipment  0.45   0.00    0.45        0.36   0.09   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00        0.45    0.00    0.45
Subtota Laboratory EquIpmen    1.95   0.0  1.95         1.56  0.40   0.ao    0.00  0()  0. 00       1.96   0.00      1.96
Vhicles
Bicycles                    0.25   0.00     0.25        0.13   0.09  0.04  0.00  0.00  0.00          0.26    0.00    0.26
Motorcycles (Surveillance)  0.66   0.00     0.66        0.48   0.18   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.90         0.66    0.00    0.66
Motorcycles (Supervision)   0.11   0.00     0.11        0.06   0.06  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00         0.11    0.00    0.11
Pickup Trucks               1.16   0.00     1.16        1.16  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00          1.16   0.00     1.16
Station Wagons (4WD)        0.29   0.00     0.29        0.29   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00         0.29    0.00    0.29           LA
Subal Vehicles    2.47   0.00    2.47        2.12   0.33   0.04  0.0   0.00  0.00         2.48    0.00    2.48
Cornaers                    0.05   0.00     0.05        aos  0o. aoo 0 oo   a  0.00  0.ao            0.05    o.00    a
Consubl S+pIes
Urine Dipsticds             1.44   0.00     1.44        0.24   0.25   0.26   0.27  0.28  0.29        1.58    0.00    1.58
Kato-KatzSupplies           0.72   0.00     0.72        0.12   0.12  0.13   0.13  0.14  0.14         0.79    0.00    0.79
Praziquantel               12.60   2.52    10.08         3.6  1.87   1.94  2.01   2.08  2.16        13.65   2.73    10.92
Nidosamide                  3.30   0.00     3.30        0.00   0.68  0.71   0.74  0.76  0.79         3.68    0.00    3.68
Sutl Cmsmnable Supples   18.06   2.52    15.54         3.96   2.92  3.04  3.15  3.26  3.38        19.70   2.73    16.97
TraInng and Srices
Traning ofLabTechnicians    0.16   0.16    a00          0.08   0.08   0.00  0.oD  0.00  0.00         0.16   0.16     0.00
Incremenal Operadng Costs
Incrementaloperating        1.05   0.19     0.86        0.17  0.18   0.19   0.1g  0.20  a21          1.15   0.21     a94
CostVehidles
otal coat of component   23.74   2.87    20.87     7.94  3.91   3.27  3.34  3.46  3.59        25.50    3.10    22.40



I
Tabk 2: Modernizng and Rehabilitating the National Schdstosomasds Control Progranne
(in US$ mlidons)
1992 Prices           Schedlependtures by Year n C7rrent Prces          Totd Eentes
TOtd   Loa   ForeIgn          93     94    95    96    97    98          Toad   Local  Foreign
Laboratory Eqadpnemc
Microscopes                 0.30    0.00     0.30        O.1S   0.16   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.31    0.00     0.31
Small Equipment             0.11    0.00     0.11        0.09   0.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.11    0.00     0.11
Subtotal Laboratory Equipment   0.41    0.0  0.41       0.24   0.18   0.00   0.0   0.00   0.00        0.42    0.00     0.42
Vhiceks
Replacement Vehicles        0.31    0.00     0.31        0.16   0.11   0.06   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.32    0.00     0.32           un
Subtotd Vehicles    0.31    0.00  0.31        0.16   0.11   0.06   '.00  0.00   0.00        0.32    0.00     0.32
Consumable Supples
Utine Dipstidcs             1.20    O.OP     1.20        0.20   0.21   0.22   0.22  0.23   0.24        1.32    O.OD     1.32
Kam-Katz and Millipore Kits  0.36    O.00    0.36        0.25   0.07   0.04   0.00   0.00   o.00       0.37    0.00     0.37
Praziquantd                 9.00    1.80     7.20        1.50   1.56   1.61   1.67   1.73   1.80       9.87    1.97     7.90
Niclosamide                 3.96    0.00     3.96        0.66   0.68   0.71   0.74   0.76   0.79       4.34    0.00     4.34
Subtotal Consuwabk Supplies  14.52    1.80    12.72    2.61   2.52   2.58   2.63   2.73   2.83      15.90    1.97    13.93
Training and Services
Training of Lab Technicians  0.32    0.32    0.00        0.16   0.17   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.33    0.33     0.00
Total cost of component  15.15    2.12    13.03    3.17   2.97   2.63   2.63   2.73   2.83      16.96    2.30    14.66



Table 3: Strengthentng Management Capaclty of the Department of Endemic Disease Control
(In US$ nmllions)
1992 Prices            ScheduledExpenditures by Year in Current Prices  Total Expendlres
Total  Local  Foreign         93     94    95    96    97    98           Totl   Local  Fordgn
Vehicles
Station Wagons (4WD)         0.06    0.00    0.06         0.04   0.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00       0.06    0.00    0.06
Subtotal Vehicls    0.06    0.ao  0.06        0.04   0.02   0.00   0.00   000   0.00        0.06    0.00    0.06
Corpquters                   0.02    0.00    0.02         0.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00      0.02    0.00     0.02
2ninlng and Services
Managenent Training          0.05    0.00    0.05         0.03   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.00   0.00       0.05    0.00    0.05
Consultant Services          0.14    0.14    0.00         0.02   0.02   0.02   0.03   0.03   0.03      0.16    0.16     0.00
Contract Research            0.35    0.35    0.00         0.28   0.07   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00      0.35    0.35     0.00
Srcgic Planning Workshops    0.04    0.04    0.00         0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01       0.06    0.00    0.06
Sbtosal Training and Serwces    0.58    0.53  0.05       0.34   0.11   0.04   0.05   0.04   0.04      0.62    0.51     0.11
Communications               0.09    0.08    0.01         0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02   0.02      0.10    0.09     0.01
Total Cost of Component    0.75   0.61  0.14        0.42   0. 15   0.06   0.07   0.06   0.06      0.80    0.60     0.20



l
Table 4: Project Costs by Conponenh
(In US$ ndllion)
1992 Prices            Sdheduled Expeundisres by Year In Current Prices   Totd Expen*tures
Total  Local  ForeI8n          93     94    95    96    97    98            Tota    Local  Foreign
Expanifng the Covrage ofthe    23.74    2.87    20.87      7.94   3.91   3.27   3.34   3.46   3.59       25.S0    3.10     22.40
Natlond Sddstosondads
Control Progran Into the
ANkcDdra                                                                                                                                      ao
ModernIing and Rdehabiltaftlg    15.15   2.12    13.03     3.17   2.97   2.63   2.63   2.73   2.83        16.96    2.30    14.66
the Naoorn Scdstosondads
Cmn&rd Progrmn
Strengthening Manaegment     0.75    0.61     0.14         0.42   O.IS   O.06   0.07   0.06   0.06        0.80    0.60      0.20
Cawiry of the Dwrunet of
EndenIc Dsease Contro
Totl Project Coats   39.64    5.60    34.04     11.53   7.03   5.96   6.04   6.25   6.48       43.26    6.W      3726



TabteS: Projea Cos by Item of Ezpeidkwe
(US$ -UM
1992 Prices                         Sdwd1e of Epdinw-E                            Tota Eipyenuar
a! Of_cUire                     Compont             *7    Tfi1   IM                                         70T}                L;7-   FoJgw
Micoses                         Delft         1.50   0.00     1.50          1.20    0.31    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00            1.51   0.00      1.51
Miccepes                        UlMEgt       0.30   0.00      0.30          0.15    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.31   0.00      0.31
Sai Laboeoy Equipit             Delt          0.45   0.00     0.4S          0.36    0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           04S   0.00       0.45
Smenjuip E ent                  UIM EFt       0.13   0.00     0.11          0.09    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.11   0.00      0.11
VeiMdes
Bicyl                           Delt          0,2S   0.00     0.25          0.13    0.09    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.26   0.00      0.26
Motrcclks                       Delta        0.66   0.00      0.66          0.48    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.66   0.00      0.66
M     cles                      Deft          0.1l   0.00     0.11          0.06    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.11   0.00      0.11
Pickup Tnc,                     Delt          1.16   0.00     1.16          1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           1.16   0.00      1.16
Stion Waon (4WD)                Deft          0.29   0.00     0.29          0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.29   0.00      0.29
Stac Wagn  (4WD)                Center        0.06   0.00     0.06          0.04    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.06   0.00      0.06
Replacement Vehics              UIM Et       0.31    0.00     0.31          0.16    0.11    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.32   0.00      0.32
Subtota Vddda~                                                                                                   ~w
ComPUt                          Delt          O.05   0.00     0.05          0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.05   0.00      0.05
COMPOe                          Cal           0.02   0.00     0.02          0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.02   0.00      0.02
Sboa Coputr:s                   -65-- effl-AW 5                                                                -
CiunabtemppRa
UrmeDipdeks                     Delt          3.44   0.00     1.44          0.24    0.25    0.26    0.27    0.28    0.29           1.S8   0.00      1.58
Urine Distk.                    UM Egt        1.20   0.00     1.20          0.20    0.21    0.22    0.22    0.23    0.24           1.32   0.00      1.32
KaoKeat Supplie                 Deft          0.72   0.00     0.72          0.12    0.12    0.13    0.13    0.14    0.14           0.79   0.00      0.79
KatoKaM and Milo  Kit           U/M Egt      0.36   0.00      0.36          0.25    0.07    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.37   0.00      0.37
Phocku"a                        Delt         12.60   2.52    10.08          3.60    1.87    1.94    2.01    2.08    2.16          13.65   2.73     10.92
Paziq_unt                       Ulm Egt      9.00    1.80     7.20          1.SO    l.SS    1.61    1.67    1.73    1.30           9.87    1.97     7.90
Nikobadme                       Delt         3.30   0.00      3.30          0.00    0.68    0.71    0.74    0.76    0.79           3.68   0.00      3.68
Niclomne                        UIM Egt      3.96   0.00      3.96          0.66    0.68    0.71    0.74    0.76    0.79           4.34   0.00      4.34
Subtotal bkS4                       -y3(-Jyflv-   --r-: r-Tw--s1-    ar-a;eri&A
Trainig mdp Sefmee
Managanent Trning               Center       O.05   0.00      0.05          0.03    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.00    0.00           0.05   0.00      0.05
TrainingOf Lab Technicias       Delta         0.16   0.16     0.00          0.08    0.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.16   0.16      0.00
TMining Of lAb Technician       U/M Et       0.32   0.32      0.00          0.16    0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.33   0.33      0.00
CouuultSeavices                 Ceater        0.14   0.14     0.00          0.02    0.02    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.03           0.16   0.16      0.00
Cna Rerch                       Center       0.35   0.3S      0.00          0.28    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00           0.3S   0.3S      0.00
Stwte& Pbnning Workehp          Cnter        0.04   0.04      0.00          0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01           0.04   0.00      0.04
A&AWd Trani8 Ond S&rces                j7S                          -                                                       7.79,     Wf   -Z.I'l
nmunrsai operatinSg cm
Vehicles                        Deb           1.05   0.19     0.86          0.17    0.18    0.19    0.19    0.20    0.21           1.15   0.21      0.94
comruniesin                     center       0.09   0.08      0.01          0.01    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02           0.10   0.08      0.02
Siibota1Incermmaw Opewatlg Ca                7j427*   f07. 2.Ji...2 
Total Piojec Came               ~        -;-3 **                                                                          ~      ~     -      -
~rqs -7:lr ~a.2r-_%.r-  o        L _ Sf-or-:l aZ-ar:~.g~wB



- 60-
ANNEX 6
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
The economics of expanding the National Schistosomiasis Control Programme to the
Eastern and Western Delta areas have been analyzed employing highly conservative assumptions:
(a) that no cost savings are achieved through the operational research carried out
under the project;
(b) that vehicles must be replace after seven years and that small laboratory
equipment must be replaced after five years;
(c) that the Egyptians are willing to pay between 1.3 and 0.3 per capita shares of
annual GDP to obtain an additional year of life expectancy; these values represent
from US$2.20 to US$0.50 a day.
(d) that the rural population will grow at a rate of 2 percent a year;
(e) that because of the project at least 2,300 persons will not become disabled or
die each year; the more plausible assumption that approximately 4600 deaths will
be averted each year has also been examined; (The larger figure allows for
underreporting of deaths due to incomplete coverage by the health care system,
and for other pathologies caused by schistosomiasis, including cancer and acute
gastrointestinal infections.)
(f) that the life of the technology is 25 years; (The control program may be
replaced eventually if a practical vaccine is developed or significant improvements
in sanitation accompany economic and social development.)
All calculations have been based on constant 1992 prices.
The results of these analyses are summarized in table 6.1. These calculations suggest
that the returns to the project significantly exceed the opportunity cost of capital.



- 61 -
Table 6.1: Summary of Economic Analysis--Estimated Rate of
Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Willingness to Pay    Number of Deaths Averted Each Year
to Increase Life -_ -
Expectancy by a    4600               2300
Year
US$800             40%                17%
US$600             28%                12%
US$400             18%



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
PROJECT ORGANOGRAMS
CHART 1
Organogram for
Ministry of Health
Minister
F
! Sector               Sector                C.A.               Sector 
BEasic and          MCurative            Mister's         Family Planning
Preventive             Care                Jffice
Hearet|h                                 Affairs   |l
Source: DANIDA, 1991



- 63 -
CHART 2
Organogram for Governorate
Directorates of Health
Source: DANIMA. 1i1



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
The following indicators are to be reported annually:
Input Measures
Number of rural health units
Number of rural health units not providing schistosomiasis control services, by duration
of interruption in service (less than a week, one week to cne month and more than a
month), and by reason for interruption (lack of staff, equipment or supplies)
Process Indicators
Numbers of persons screened and numbers found positive reported separately for the
following categories:
School children screened during spring
School children screened during fall
Outpatients seen at rural health facilities
Persons screened as part of program ten percent sample-active case finding in the
community
New infection or reinfection (for school children only)
Parasite (S. mansoni or S. haematobium)
Outcome Measures
Intensity of infection for a representative sample of patients at each health facility, by
parasite
Number of cases of hematemesis admitted to hospitals



- 65 -
ANNEX 9
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS: (In US$ millions)
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Annual                4.75   3.95   4.10   4.00   3.90   3.23   2.91
Cumulative            4.75   8.70  12.80  16.80  20.70  23.93  26.84
COMPARISONS OF DISBURSEMENT PROFILES:
(Percentage Disbursed by Year from Approval Date)
Year I  Year2   Year3   Year4   YearS   Year6  Year7  Year8
Proposed Project     18      32      48       63      77      89      100     100
Egypt, All            3      14      30       50      70      86       94     100
Sectors
All Regions,          3      10      18       34      54      74       90     100
Health
Egypt Education       1       6      18       46      74      94       98     100



-66 -
3992             1993              3 1994           1995              1996              199               1998             1999
Ql Q2 Q3 Q4      Qt Q2QQ4          QlQ2Q3Q4         Q                    QQ2 Q3 Q4  QIQ2Ql Q  Ql2Q3 Q4    Ql Q2 Q3 Q4      Ql Q2 Q3 Q4
Bi Fft_ 
_                                                                      _ _                                                                             _
C  IIi n                             _ _ _  __xx  m     xx  Um XX XX             KR   1     Mt     Xfi    xf
I   r-                                     xx xx WEx   xx   x lx xx        x  a xx WE 3a x M   xx   xxt 30                                                            9
Dmp tfM d                                                                                                                                                             rq 
icammoLosoppo
Blr~ggA-id                             Um=x   m         xxx   mx n u      U      x  Ux      ux X3 UxX                           Mx
ThBwy                                   s    xil xx    3m ax xx xx                  _ s  xx    u Xsx    I      EM x      m      X xx  x x xxK
Tah       ol%M                          ax x           =    xx M     xx xx 3m 3      vXX  X X xi  x xx xr     Mt   xx   x   x K ix xx   xx



- 67 -
ANNEX 11
USE OF THE PESTICIDE, NICLOSAMIDE, TO CONTROL SCHISTOSOMIASIS
1.   The Egyptian National Schistosomiasis Control Programme uses niclosamide to control
the vector snails of schistosomiasis. The molluscicide is applied to canals, drains and bodies of
standing water in which infected snails have been fi)und. A previous IIA credit "New Lands
Development Project' (1083-EGY), provided 950 nwetric tons of niclosamide to control snails
in a 24,000 feddans settlement area in Giza Governorate.
2.    The proposed project will finance a maximum of 40 metric tons of the pesticide annually
for use nation-wide, and in addition will support studies to improve the targeting and further
decrease the use of the pesticide, in order to reduce program costs and environmental affects of
the pesticide.
3.    Persistence in the Environment. Niclosamide has a fairly long half-life. However it does
degrade when exposed to sunlight and is biodegraded by bacteria.
4.    Toxicity. The compound has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
for use as in an anthelminthic drug, particularly for the tzeatment of tape worm in humans. As
part of the registration process, niclosamide has been thoroughly tested for toxicity,
mutagenicity, carcinogenicity. The drug has been found to produce nausea occasionally in some
people.Y' Extensive animal studies have been undertaken as part of the registration process for
use of niclosamide as a drug. These studies have shown the drug to be toxic to experimental
animals only if administered in very large doses--more than 4000 mg per kg of body weight
(rabbits) or 5000 mg per kg of body weight (rats). Studies of chronic exposure reveal that the
drug when added to the daily diet for 45 weeks at a rate of 1000 parts per million, had no
adverse affect on the health of rats. A study of long term exposure in which the drug was
administered to dogs five times a week for a year at a rate of 10 mg per kg of body revealed
that the niclosamide did not produce abnormalities in behavior, weight, urine chemistry or
function of internal organs.Y The recommended rate of application of the chemical when used
as a molluscicide is one to two parts per million which implies that in ordLr to ingest a mg of
the chemical through the consumption of properly treated water one would have to consume a
cubic meter of water. The niclesdmide is clearly not toxic to warm blooded animals in the
concentrations used to control snails.
1     7Te Medical Leuer on Drugs and Therapeutics, Vol 34, March 1992, pages 24-25.
2'    Hecht, G. and C. Gloxhuber. 1962. quoted in Baylucid: Information Technique,
Bayer Pflanzenschutz, Leverkusen.



- 68 -
5.    Precauions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency requires that the packaging of
niclosamide for use as a pesticide in the United States provide the warning that the compound
may cause eye damage and be harmful if swallowed or inhaled. Labels are also require to
advise the user not to get niclosaimide in the eyes or to breathe its dust. Users are instructed to
wash with soap and water after handling and to wear goggles or a face shield when handling.
6.    Workers in the snail control program wear protective gloves and goggles to avoid skin
and eye irritation. Niclosamide is stored in locked warehouses. Empty containers are destroyed
to prevent their reuse. The World Health Organization's Expert Committee on the Control of
Schistosomiasis has prepared revised guidelines on the management of the disease which includes
guideline on the use of molluscicides. These guidelines are in the final stages of review and are
expected to be published during the third quarter of 1992. The EDCD has agreed to modify its
procedures to comply with internationally accepted standards for the handling and application
of the pesticide.
7.    Niclosamide is marketed for use as a molluscicide under the trade name Baylicide. It is
supplied in either granular form or as a wetable powder. The granular form has been approved
for use by provincial and state fish and game departments in Canada and the United States as
a larvicide for the control of sea lamprey in the Great Lakes. The wetable powder formulation
has been approved by the United States for control in Puerto Rico of the snail vector of
schistosomiasis. Niclosamide is applied in concentrations of one to two parts per million for
eight thours.



- 69 -
ANNEX 12
SUPERVISION SCHEDULE
Bank Fiscal Year         Staff/Consultant Specialty        Staff Weeks
1993                   Parasitologist                    8
Implementation Specialist         4
Management Consultant             3
1994                   Parasitologist                    6
Implementation Specialist         3
Management Consultant             2
1995                   Parasitologist                    8
Implementation Specialist         2
l ____________________   Management Consultant            4
1996                   Parasitologist                    6
Implementation Specialist         2
Management Consultant             2
1997                   Parasitologist                    6
Implementation Specialist         2
Management Consultant             2
1998                   Parasitologist                    6
Implementation Specialist         2
Management Consultant             2
1999                   Parasitologist                    3
Managment Consultant              3
TOTAL                76



MAP SECTION
I



