CREDIT NUMBER 2403 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(National Schistosomiasis Control Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2403 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     5     \   C             , 1992, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
(B)   to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower intends
to obtain, in the form of grants, an amount totalling the equivalent
of about $9,000,000 from other external sources of finance; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower;
(b)   "NSCP" means   the National Schistosomiasis    Control
Program, to be supported under the Project;
(c)   "EDCD" means the Endemic Disease Control Department of
MOH, responsible for the carrying out of the NSCP;
(d)   "Cofinanciers" means the sources for Project financing
referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Agreement;


﻿-2-
(e)   "Cofinancing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Bor,.ower and each of the Confinanciers;
(f)   "Cofinancing Amount" means the grants to be provided for
purposes of the Project under the Cofinancing Agreements; and
(g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 19,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central Bank of
Egypt or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including, if the special account is opened in
a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association


﻿-3-
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2002 and ending March 1, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2012 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the


﻿-4-
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the term. of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided i-n paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, managerial and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall, except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, carry out the Project through
EDCD in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project and of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsiole for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with internationally accepted
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors    acceptable   to    the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at    least one year after     the
Association has received the audit for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv)   ensure  that  such  records  and  accounts   are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with   the  procedures  and   internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(i)   Any of the Cofinancing Agreements shall have
failed to become effective by December 31, 1993,
or such other date as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon.
(ii)   The right of    the Borrower to withdraw     the
proceeds of any grant included in the Cofinancing
Amount shall have been suspended, cancelled or


﻿-7-
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor.
(b)   Paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section  7.01.   The  Borro.wer's  Minister  of  State  for
International  Cooperation   or  the  First   Undersecretary  for
International  Finance   in  said   Ministry  is   designated  as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation
(International Finance Sector)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt


﻿-8-
Cable address:                 Telex:
MINISTRY OF                227-23348
INTERNATIONAL
COOPERATION
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By  /5L A .,j
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IP Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment                 6,570,000        100% of foreign
(including                                expenditures, 100%
operation                                 of local expen-
vehicles)                                  ditures (ex-
and materials                             factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(2) Drugs                     8,030,000        100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
local expendi-
tures for other
items procured
locally
(3) Pesticides                2,190,000        100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Consultants'                730,000        100%
services
(including
services for
preparation
of environ-
mental control
measures) and
training
(5) Unallocated               2,080,000
TOTAL                19,600,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower, and
(b) the terms "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to expand the coverage
and improve the operation of the NSCP, and (b) to strengthen the
capacity of EDCD to design, evaluate and adjust the national control
strategy for the control of schistosomiasis.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     NSCP
1.    Extension of the NSCP to the Delta Governorates of Beheira,
Sharkiya, Daqahliya and Qalubiya, and the rural area of Alexandria,
through the provisions of laboratory supplies and equipment,
operation vehicles, drugs and molluscicides, in addition to
technical assistance and training.
2.    Provision of equipment, supplies, operation vehicles and
training, required to enable the adoption under the NSCP of modern
diagnostic technologies in all Governorates in Upper and Middle
Egypt and in the Suez Canal region.
Part B:     EDCD
1.    Provision of technical assistance to EDCD to strengthen its
accounting and budgeting functions and of training for its staff in
modern methods of policy analysis and management.
2.    Carrying out of an operational plan to introduce more
efficient, decentralized and cost effective management methods for
the control of schistosomiasis, based on recent developments in the
technology for its diagnosis and treatment, including (a) research
with a view to developing a new control strategy, (b) evaluation of
the feasibility of using simple dipsticks to test for the presence
of blood in the urine, and of using paper filters to remove ova from
standardized volume of urine, (c) evaluation of the Kato technique
for diagnosis of intestinal schistosomiasis, and (d) studies and
surveys to formulate more effective intervention strategy, and (e)
design and evaluation of innovative proposals for schistosomiasis


﻿- 12 -
control, including proposals for improving domestic water supply and
waste water disposal and strengthening health education.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for drugs and pesticides
shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Egypt may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Items, or groups of items, estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract to be procured pursuant to
the procedures referred to in Part A.1 of Section I of this
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix


﻿- 14 -
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of
such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist EDCD in the carrying out of Part B.1 of the
Project, the Borrower, acting through MOH, shall cause EDCD to
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.    Project Management
1.    The Project shall be implemented through the EDCD. Its
Director of Project Administration shall have the administrative
responsibility for: (a) coordinating activities under the Project in
the various Governorates, (b) the preparation of the lists of
equipment, supplies and services required under the Project, (c)
monitoring of progress in Project activities, and (d) maintenance of
Project accounts. For this purpose, the Borrower, acting through
MOH, shall ensure, at least until the completion of the Project, the
maintenance o the office of the Director of Project Administration
of EDCD under such terms of reference and with such staff and
facilities as shall be required for the discharge of the above
responsibilities.
2.    Procurement of drugs, laboratory equipment and supplies
required under the Project shall be undertaken by the Central
Purchasing Office of MOH.
B.    Project Implementation
1.    EDCD shall: (a) carry out the operational plan referred to in
Part B (2) of the Project, under terms of reference and time
schedule agreed upon between EDCD and the Association; (b) prepare
and furnish to the Association, by August 31 in each year, a report
on the findings of research and studies included thereunder, (c)
exchange views regularly with the Association as to the appropriate
modifications in schistosomiasis control strategy, based on the
findings of the research included in Part B (2) (a) of the Project,
(d) adopt and implement, not later than June 30, 1993, criteria
satisfactory to the Association for the use of pesticide for snail
control; and (e) review with the Association not later than June 30,
1996, the progress of activities under the Project and the findings
thereunder with a view to agreeing on any modifications in Project
components required to achieve the objectives of the Project.
2.    EDCD shall, by March 15 in each year: (a) organize two
planning seminars for the NSCP, one for the Governorates referred to
in Part A (1) of the Project and the other for the Governorates in
Upper and Middle Egypt, each with the participation of the concerned


﻿- 16 -
governorate managers of the NSCP and their deputies, officials of
MOH and appropriate external experts, and (b) prepare, on the basis
of the recommendations of such seminars, and furnish to the
Association, an annual plan for activities under the NSCP,
specifying the sources, including the Credit, for the financing
thereof.
3.    Not later than January 1, 1994, EDCD shall: (a) introduce new
forms for reporting the incidence of schistosomiasis which would
ensure the maintenance of a single record for each child for the
duration of his or her schooling, and (b) implement appropriate
procedures for data editing and management to improve the
reliability of statistical information on such incidence.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower  shall   furnish  to  the   Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 18 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of       the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 19 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


