Do_mnt Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6489
PROJECT COPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 970-SL)
November 13, 1986
:.estern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS USED
CPU        Central Planning Unit (MDEP)
CSO        Central Statistics Office (MDEP)
GOSL       Govetnment of Sierra Leone
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        International Development Association
MAP        Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MDI?       Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
MOE        Ministry of Education
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MOH        Ministry of Health
MOW        Ministry of Works
PCR        Project Completion Report
PEMSU      Projects Evaluation, Monitoring and Services Unit (MAP)
PIP        Public Investment Program
TOR        Terms of Reference
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
UNDTCD     United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation for Development



FOR OFFJCIA USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. DC 20433
U S.A
offi ce Doftwcttv.ce4aI
Op.atumw EvekM lt"
November 13, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report:  Sierra Leone - Technical Assistance
Project (Credit 970-SL)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Sierra Leone - Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 970-SL)" prepared by the Western Africa Regional Office. Under
the modified system for project performance auditing, further evaluation
of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been
made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 970-SL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Preface .....,... ....... i
Basic Data Sheet                       .       .        .        ................ ii
Highlights ,...,...   v
I.   Project Background and Objectives ................................    2
II.  Project Management and Execution ...................................    3
.III. Major Issues.                                                                   5
IV. Conclusions ...............                                                      8
ANNEXES  1 - Project Background and Preparation .......................   10
2 - Project Management and Execution .........................   12
3 - Project Supervision ....................                              17
4 - Disbursements .............................................   20
5 - Training ............................................,. 21
6 - Performance within Ministries ............................   24
Appendix 1 - Value and Purpose of Consultant Contracts  ......... ......  28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 970-SL)
PREFACE
The Credit providing technical assistance to the Government of Sierra
Leone for the improvement of development planning in certain of its sectqral
ministries was finally closed on December 31,. 1984, after two one year
extensions. (Disbursements were allowed until June 30, 1985, for items agreed
to prior to the Closing Date.) In December, 1985, it was agreed that the
Project Completion Report (PCR) would be prepared by the Public Sector
Management Division of the Western Africa Projects Department. It is based on a
review of the President's Report (P-2665-SL) dated December 5, 1979, (no Staff
Appraisal Report was thought to be necessary for this Project, a practice which
remains fairly common for technical assistance projects) the Development Credit
Agreement dated February 8, 1980, internal IDA reports and memoranda on project
preparation and execution, progress reports prepared by various consultants.
involved with the project, Project Supervision Reports prepared by IDA staff
and other documents from the IDA's files as well as interviews with IDA staff
involved with the design and implementation of the Project.Altnough it was
originally intended for staff to visit Sierra Leone in order to interview
officials of the Government who had been involved with the Project. it was
eventually decided that the amount of time (almost three years) which had
elapsed since the departure of the long term advisors, whose services comprised
a very large part of the Project and whose performance remains one of the
probable factors in the Project's lack of success, would make it unlikely that
such interviews would produce new insights into the Project!s execution. This
PCR will not touch on the performance of the two advisors under the UNDP-funded
projects executed by the Bank nor of the other UNDP-funded advisors in MDEP
since, although their work was closely related to that of the Project, they
were not strictly part of it.
The PCR is separated into two parts: the PCR itself; and a series of
annexes which provide more detailed information on the design, preparation and
execution of the Project.
In accordance with the revised project performance reporting procedures,
this report has been read in the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) but the
Project was not audited by OED staff. The draft Completion Report was sent to
the Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 970-SL)
BASIC PROJECT DATA
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual
Total Project Costs (US$ million)                  2.80             2.20
Credit Amount (US$ million)                        2.50             1.93
-Disbursed and outstanding                           -              1.93
Economic Rate of Return                             NA               NA
Financial Performance                               NA               NA
Institutional Performance                                          Weak
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original Plan         Actual
First mention in files                              -             12/04/78
Identification                                      -             02/00/79
Appraisal                                          July,1979      08/00/79
Decision M{emo                               September,1979        10/10/79
Negotiations                                  November,1979        11/21/79
Board Approval                                December,1979        12/27/79
Credit Agreement Date                          January,1980       02/08/80
Effectiveness                                    March,1980       06/30/80
Completion Date                                   June,1982       06/30/85
Closing Date                                  December,1982       12/31/84
Borrower                                      Republic of Sierra Leone
Executing Agency                              Ministry of Development and
Economic Planning
Credit Number                                 970-SL
Follow-on Project                             None



MISSION DATA
Item                Month/Year         No. of Days   No. of Staff   Report Date
Identification       February,1979           4              1           02/05/79
Preappraisa'.        May,1979.               2              2           06/19/79
Appraisal            August,1979            10              1           08/15/79
Supervision I        November,1980-          4              1           11/26/80
Supervision II       July,1981               4              1           08/14/81
Supervision III      December,1081           4              1           01/20/82
Supervision IV       November,1982          10              2           12/08/82
Supervision V        April,1983             10              2           06/03/83
Supervision VI       October,1983            4             3            12/08/83
Supervision VII      February,1984           4             2            03/12/84
Supervision VIII    July,1984                5             2            09/04/84
N.B. The mission data do not reflect the time spent supervising the various
sectoral components in the course of other project supervision by those
divisions responsible for those sectors.



-iv-
DISBURSEMENTS BY FISCAL YEAR
(US$ Million)
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
ANNUAL
Appraisal Estimates            0.48    1.57    0.45       -        -       -
Actual-                          -     0.34    0.59    0.58    0.23    0.19
Actual as % Est mate             0      22       131
CUMULATIVE
Appraisal Estimates            0.48    2.05    2.50       -        -
Actual                           0     0.34    0.93    1.51    1.74    1.93
Actual as x Estimate             0       17       37
DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates         'Actuals
(1)   Salaries and other emoluments             0.840                     1.135
for long-term advisors
(a)   Salaries and other emoluments             0.750                     0.535
for short-term consultants
(3)   Training                                  0.050                     0.108
(4)   Equipment and Vehiclvrs                   0.075                     0.071
(5)   Project preparation studies               0.650                     0.084
(6)   Unallocated                               0.135
Total                          2.500                     1.933
N.B.  US$ 567,000 went unutilized and was cancelled. There remains some
confusion about the dividing line between Categories 2-and 5..See
Annex 4.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 970-SLj
HIGHLIGHTS
The Credit to Sierra Leone for technical assistance to the planning
sector was one of the first free-standing TA projects by the Bank Group in
Africa. While it did achieve limited success in the areas of training (para. 10
and Annex 5) and project preparation (para. 9) it was not a fully successful
project for a variety of reasons:
(a)  project design proved unable to cope with problems
as they arose (paras. 4 and 12(a) and Annex 1);
(b) the technical assistance being provided was badly
coordinated by the donors (paras. 3, 7 and 12(b).
and Annex 1);
(c) Government commitment to project goals was less
than it needed to be in order to achieve them
(paras. 7, 9 and 12(c) and Annex 2, para.9);
(d) there was initial confusion and eventual acrimony
over the selection of the primary consultant.
There is reason to believe that the IDA erred in
allowing the appointment (paras. 5and 12(e) and
Annex 2, para. 6); and,
(e) supervision by IDA staff, although nominally
adequate, may have been insufficient and wrongly
directed (paras. 12(f) and Annex 3).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 970-SL)
SUMMARY
The Technical Assistance Project (Credit 970-SL) was negotiated in
November,.1979, approved by the IDA's Board-in December, 1979, signed in
February, 1980, became effective in June, 1980,was Closed on December 31, 1984,
after two one-year extensions, and disbursements ceased to be made on
June 30, 1985, when the US$ 566,317.91 remaining undisbursed in the Credit
Account (some 23X of the original amount) was cancelled. To date, there has not
been a follow-up project although there were certain aspects of the TA Project
meant to complement the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) which were
designed to build upon areas where some gains were made by the Project.. If one
is to take literally the Project Objectives listed in the President's Report,
which was the product of the Project negotiations and the vehicle for Project
approval by the IDA's Board, the Project can, at best, be described as a very
limited success. While it may not be fair to judge it an "almost total failure"
as one consultant did, the Project certainly did not achieve the goals set out
for it in the President's Report. Some achievements can indeed be laid to the
'Project's door, most notably in the agricultural sector, and in a more
restricted sense, in training. Nonetheless, the Project was not a resounding
triumph and this PCR will attempt to trace the causes of the successes and
failures in achieving project aims and to try to identify lessons which can be
learned from them.



-2-
I.    PROJECT BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
'.        The Technical Assistance Project was imeant to provide support to the
Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) in the areas of development planning, the
training of local staff, preparation of development projects and monitoring and
evaluation of public investment programs. Prior to lending for this, the IBRD
and IDA, which have been active in Sierra Leone since 1964, had been involved
in the agriculture, power, education and highways sectors but the loans and
credits were for more traditional investment projects. Moreover, due to the
deteriorating economic situation in the country and to the Government's seeming
inability to devise a rational plan to order its finances and public
expenditure, the Bank Group had only approved one Credit (Third Power) since
1975. While this was the IDA's firs, such foray into planning sector in Sierra
Leone, thz UNDP had been assisting the Government in the planning sector since
the early 1970's with the UNDTCD as sxecuting agency. When the IDA was
initially approa?ched by the Government in December, 1978, about the possibility
of providing more assistance in this area, the GOSL had just concluded an -
agreement with the IMF on a stabilization program and had also completed the
preparation of the first three year Public Investment Program (PIP), something
the Bank Group had been requesting action on for some time. Since these were
the prerequisites for further lending, the IDA looked upon the Government's
request favorably both as a means of resuming lending on a controlled scale and
a way of assisting GOSL in improving its planning capabilities. Two avenues
were initially considered as appropriate vehicles for this type of assistance:
formulation of a project in which the IDA would be one of several donors; or, a
continuation of the UNDP-funded assistance but with the Bank as the executing
agency.
2.        Under the original UNDP-financed project to provide planning support
to GOSL, expatriate personnel assisted the.Government in the preparation of the
First National Development Plan,which was designed to cover the years 1974/5-
1978/9. This Plan came to naught due to the unfortunate combination of economic
trends completely beyond the Government's control (e.g.oil prices) and the
serious deterioration in the internal management of the economy. However, the
UNDP project was extended and the advisors continued to assist the Ministry of
Development and Economic Planning (MDEP) in working toward a Second National
Development Plan for the years 1981/2-1986/7 as well as an interim PIP covering
only the three years between the Plans. It was partly because of some doubts as
to the effectiveness of the UNDTCD team as well as the perception that the
Government badly needed a stronger sector planning and project preparation
capability, particularly in the agriculture and infrastructure investment
areas, that led GOSL to approach the Bank with the request for additional
assistance.
3.        From the beginning, there was confusion about which agency would act
to execute the planned second extension of the UNDP project, the IDA or
UNDTCD. The Government, it seems, was already having discussions with the
UNDTCD about its continuing as executing agency when it approached the Bank.
Indeed, by May, 1979, when the Project was being preappraised, the UNDTCD had
already prepared a preliminary project document for the provision of advisors
and other support to MDEP. This UNDP-financed project was to last three years
starting in January, 1980, and was budgeted at US$ 1,500,000. The assumption
of UNDTCD was that the executing agency would be UNDTCD. During subsequent
discussions UNDTCD, the UNDP and the Bank, it became clear that, despite
certain concerns about UNDTCD's draft project document (concerns apparently
based on the fact that this would be the third such project since 1970 and



-3-
there appeared to be little difference in the objectives of the three or in the
suggested means of achieving them nor had there been any discernible long term
institution building effects resulting from either of the previous two
projects), it appeared likely that GOSL would prefer to have UNDTCD as the
executing agency rather than the Bank. While there remained some reservations
about the efficacy of this approach, the IDA did not want to be perceived as
trying to dominate the preparation of the next National Development Plan then
urderway and agreed to appraise a TA Project directed at the sectoral
Ministries (i.e. MAF; iMOE, MOH and MOW). Such a project would, it was reasoned,
complement the UNDTCD's efforts in MDEP and contribute to the improvement of
the planning capability of GOSL. In addition, the IDA agreed to be the executor
for two one-man UNDP-financed projects: an infrastructure planning advisor for
MDEP; and, a fiscal advisor for MOF.
4.        The Project, as finally appraised in August, 1979, had the following
objectives, which should be viewed within the "framework of a long-term policy
aimed at gradual improvement in development planning and project preparation
within the central and sectoral ministries":
(a) to strengthen the Government's cap'ability in
development planning with emphasis on the
formulation of public sector investment programs,
the establishment of development objectives and
policy instruments, and identification of resource
availability and constraints;
(b) to assist Government in the preparation of
priority development projects aimed at.
diversifying and expanding the productive b3se of
the economy, improving the cob. ry's economic and
social infrastructure and promoting a broader
distribution of the national income;
(c) to train local staff in development planning and
project preparation and implementation;
(d) to establish a system for the monitoring and
evaluation of public investment programs.
The goals of objectives (b) and (c) were at least partially met in the case of
the agricultural sector where some project preparation was completed and
considerable training took place. In the other sectors it is difficult to
identify an: real progress on these goals during the life of the Project. On
the longer-term, specifically institution building aims of (a) and (d) very
little, if any, success can be recorded in anv of the subject Ministries.
II.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION
A.      Project Costs
5.        The designers of the Project envisaged the long-term advisors to be
assigned to the sectoral ministries to be one of, if not the key, foundations
upon which the success of the Ptoject would be built and, from the outset, the
IDA advised the Government that hiring the advisors individually would make
far more sense than contracting with a firm -o supply them from the standpoint



-4-
of cost as well as performance. The Project costs were based on the assumption
that individual advisors would be employed.However, the Government opted for a
consulting firm to provide these services. The result was a cost uverrun of
some 282 for the cost of the long-term advisors. The selected consultant was
paid a total of $ 1,079,025 in addition to the Le.70,000 reallocated in 1983
for internal travel. The original estimate of the cost (and the amount in
Category 1) was $ 840,000. This overrun was not apparently noticed by the IDA
until later although the Bank approved the contract in April, 1981.
6.        The costs in other areas rpflect to some extent the performance of
the various ministries under the Project. Categories 2 and 5, for short-term
consultants and project preparation and feasibility studies respectively,
totalled some $ 1,400,000 but only $ 608,000 was disbursed. (Only MAP took full
advantage-of the funds available,spending some $ 425,000 or 70% of the amount
disbursed. MOW did employ a consultant to assist in the preparation of a
highways project but neither HOE nor MOH used any of the funds in these
Categories.) Category 3 (Training) was well utilized, being overrun by more
than 100%. (This was largely spent on overseas courses, none of which were
envisaged in the original project design.) Category 4 (Equipment and Vehicles)
c.ame close to the original estimates for its utilization.
v.        Project Coordination
7.        Beyond the question of cost, however, and equally important, was the
issue of coordination of the work to be done by the advisors with that being
done in MDEP by the UNDP-financed consultants and of the general coordination
of inputs into the preparation of the Second National Development Plan. To
ensure the overall coordination of planning activities between the central and
sectoral ministries, the Bank and GOSL agreed to the reactivation of the
National Planning Council and the Inter-Ministerial Planning Committee (both of
which had been essentially moribund since their establishment in 1972) and the
formation of a Technical Committee comprised-of representatives of the planning
units withir. ministries (as and when these were created and staffed) and
I"appropriate professional staff" from central and sectoral ministries. This
Committee was to meet at least quarterly to "discuss activities and progress
and monitor coordination of the Government's planning exercises." Neither the
Planning Council nor the Planning Committee met during the life of the Project.
The establishment and regular functioning of the Technical Committee was a
condition of Credit Effectiveness and the Government duly informed the IDA of
its founding and composition in May, 1979. However, while it was established,
it seems that there was only one meeting held despite repeated assurances from
GOSL over the life of the Project that a meeting was imminent although all of
its members were theoretically directly involved with the execution of the
Project.
8.        Coordination suffered at yet another level when it was decided that
it would be unnecessary to build any other device into the Project to ensure
that the advisors in the different ministries funded by the various donors were
all headed in the same direction and that their efforts were being channelled
toward agreed goals. Prior to the appraisal of the ?roject, the IDA suggested
the advisability of someone to be appointed to provide such coordination but
others argued that this would be seen as a potential threat to the sectoral
ministries involved and they were likely to refuse to relinquish any authority
to such a person. In the face of that objection, the idea was not pursued. As a
result, and in the absence of any overall coordination from the Technical
Committee, two "project managers" eventually appeared on the scene; one for
the UNDTCD team and another by the consultant to oversee the work of the



Project-funded long-term advisors. It is quite unlikely that either contributed
greatly to the enhancement of the Government's planning capabilities.
C.      Project Implementation
9.        The Project was to have contributed to the institutional capabilities
of the Government through the provision of long and short-term consultants and
funds for training seminars -nd project preparation and feasibility studies.
While there were identifiable benefits from the Project in the preparation of
the Second Highway Project (Cr. 1129-SL) and the Agricultural Sector Support
Project (CR. 1501-SL) and, probably, the Third Education Project (Cr. 1353-SL),
less progress can be claimed in either the direct production of feasibility
studies or in preparing the staff of GOSL to produce these in the future. But,
in addition to project-specific studies, there were several activities for
which consultanc funds were to have been provided under the Project. Fxamples
of these are: MOH was to have hired a consultant to reinforce the work of its
planning unit (to heve been established under the Project); MOE was to have
employed one to astist in the design and construction of school buildings and
another to prepare and maintain school maps; the MOM was to employ a consultant
to assist in the formulation of plans for the development of the mining sector;
and MDEP was to have used funds to establish a central monitoring and
evaluation system. None of these tasks were eventually carried out under the
Project and the poor or inadequate use of consultancy funds available under IDA
projects continues to be a problem area.
10.       The funds provided for training were intended for the preparation of
at least two in-country seminars dealing with sector and central planning,
project preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Only one of
these seminars was held and that was in November, 1983, several months after
the departure of the long-term advisors. Of the total funds disbursed under
this Category, some $ 84,000 (78%) were largely spent on overseas training for
GOSL officials in a variety of Project-related areas. The majority of this
money seems to have been appropriately spent to improve the capabilities of the
staff of PEMSU and of the CSO. Nonetheless, some rather tenuous arguments were
made for a few of the disbursements under this Category such as topping-up the
overseas allowances of senior officials of MDEP while they were on courses in
the United States and several requests from GOSL for funding other types of
overseas training trips were rejected since they could not be justified as
being relevant to Project objectives.
11.       The selection and performance of the long-term advisors and the
performance of the Government have been dealt with in some detail in Annex 2.
Annex 3 presents an overview of the Bank's performance in superAtising the
Project. Disbursements and Training are discussed in Annexes 4 and 5.
III. MAJOR ISSUES
12.       Several issues emerge from the preceding review of the Project. Among
the most important of these concern:
(a)  project design. Frequently, projects such as this
were seen as catchall vehicles for the provision
of expatriate manpower in order to achieve many
and often varied institution building goals. Thus,
in this, as in many of the free-standing technical
assistance projects, it was assumed that the long-



-6-
term advisors could achieve all or most of the
Project objectives by their very presence. The
indications from the review of this and similar
projects are that the advisors alone are not
enough to assure success. The TOR for the long-
term advisors were specific and well thought out
but the other aspects of the Project were largely
left to be designed as time went on. There was
little thought given to the design of TOR for the
counterpart staff who would be assisting, and
learning from, the advisors. By implication, the
major tangible "product" of the Project was to
have been the successful production of a National
Development Plan and yet there were no specific
measurement criteria set for the evaluation of
progress toward this goal, either for the country
as a whole or.in specific Ministries. Admittedly,
the Project was one of the first of the free-
standing TA projects funded by the IDA in West
Africa and the absence of stringent initial design
was a conscious result of the planners' concern
that the project be flexible. Nonetheless, white
the lack of a confining framework was beneficial
as far as the short-term studies were concerned,.
overall it made meaningful evaluation of the
Project's longer-term goals almost impossible.
Thus it was not easy to anticipate needed changes
on a rolling basis and, therefore, especially from
1983 on, each supervision mission was essentially
required to re-appraise the Project and the long
term goals of improving local capacity in the
planning and project preparation areas often
seemed to get lost in the effort to disburse the
remaining funds under the Credit. To a' large
extent, now that these potential problems have
been identified, there is less danger of their
being missed in the project design stage, but they
remain an important issue;
(b). coordination of donor technical assistance by the
Government and the donors. While there was an
appearance of cooperation and coordination of
effort between the Government, the UNDP, UNDTCD
and the IDA in this case, it does not seem to have
translated to cooperation in the actual
implementation of the Project. The Government
established a Cabinet Sub-Committee for Aid
Coordination in 1983 but it was short-lived and
did not lead to any real reforms in this area;
(c) Government commitment to meeting Project
objectives. There is every indication that the IDA
staff who identified and appraised the Project
were reasonably convinced that there was support
for the Project's goals when it was presented to
the Board for approval. Nonetheless, there is
evidence that any commitment which was there



-7-
initially was not broad based and quickly
dissipated with the departure of the Planning
Secretary in 1980. Even his brief return sometime
later did not seem to serve to revive any true
support in MDEP. This lack of clear commitment (or
perhaps simply the inability to act on it)
indicated the general lack of priority seemingly
accorded to planning as demonstrated by the
continued failure to produce a plan document and
must be considered one of the'chief reasons for
the Project's limited achievements;
(d)  availability of properly qualified national staff.
Projects such as this have, as their ultimate
goal, institution building. This cannot be done if
the raw material on which the institution is to be
based - staff - is not available. The problem of
attracting and retaining high-calibre staff is one
*which still seems to defy solution. However, it
must be taken into account in designing this type
of Project. After all, if the ministries to be
assisted lack the necessary staff, the technical
assistants who should be overseeing.the training
and growth of such staff are often required to
attend to the line duties of the ministries
instead. Thus, many TA projects are doomed from
the start because they fail to address this issue
either by providing funds for the salaries or
salary supplements for local counterpart staff or
in some other way. Only in the case of MAF (in
particular PEMSU) was there any obvious (hopefully
long-term) institutional building effect and that
is almost certainly attributable more to the
ongoing technical assistance which PEMSU was
receiving through the existing agricultural
projects than to this Project;
(e)  recruitment of staff. While the final choice and
the difficulties surrounding the eventual decision
concerning the provision of consultant services
under the Project may be rare, it presents an
important 4ssue. Such a matter is not a mere
detail and must form a part of the project design,
as it did in this case. From the beginning of the
discussions concerning the Project between IDA and
GOSL, IDA staff thought that there was agreement
that individual consultants would be selected to
provide the technical assistance to the ministries
on the assumption that these would be cheaper and
that it would be more likely to locate and recruit
advisors with the needed skills on an individual
bas. . It was with some surprise, therefore, that
the IDA received the Government's decision to
employ a firm, especially one with no demonstrable
expertise in the areas of planning and project
preparation. The delays which resulted in the
finalization of the consultant's contract stemmed



-8-
directly from the Government's decision to alter
this basic supposition of the appraisal mission
and the IDA's reluctance to accept the
Government's choice of firms. Beyond the question
of individual consultants versus a firm is another
issue - whether it was responsible for the IDA to
give in to the wishes of the Government, thus
ignoring its stated reservations concerning the
ability of the consultant to carry out this
particular contract successfully. The results
clearly indicate that it was not;
(f)  the purpose and role of IDA supervision of
technical assistance projects. Only a total of
some 53.3 staff weeks was recorded for the IDA's
supervision of this Project. If the object of
supervisioa is to check on progress and to assist
when the project falls into difficulties, this is
probably a reasonable figure, especially
considering that there was quite certainly a large
amount of unrecorded time spent on this Project
by missions doing other things. But, if the IDA's
role in such projects is to assure the adequacy of
the institution building aspects of the project,
it is probably not .enough. It would seem that the
solution to this is either to make such projects
far less complicated or to admit that they are
going to absorb more time than other projects and
budget for it. Certainly, projects such as
this, which are directed at several ministries,
require a great deal more time to effectively
supervise. More thought needs to be given to the
question of whether optimum results can be
achieved using firms for this type of work. There
would seem to be a strong case for employing
individuals instead. Perhaps some consideration
should be given to employing the type of
consultant to provide technical supervision in
such cases as described in Annex 3.
IV.   CONCLUSIONS
13.       The general conclusion to be drawn from this PCR is that both parties
to the Credit Agreement were at least partially to blame for the fact that the
Project failed to achieve the objectives expected of it. On the IDA's side, the
project designers were too sanguine about the extent of the Government's
expressed commitment to the Project objectives and the supervision missions
were late in noting the downward drift of the Project and, when they did, were
not willing to propose the logical (albeit draconian) step of suspension of
disburse.ients with a view towards eventual cancellation of the Credit in the
face of repeated and seemingly obdurate non-compliance with the Credit
conditions on the part of GOSL. The obvious benefits to such a course of action
were tnat good money would no longer be thrown after bad and that it would
probably-serve tG make the conditionality of future projects more believable.
However, there were perceived costs as well.There was a desire to maintain
IDA's dialogue with the Government and the perception that a cancellation would



9
do more harm than good in keeping lines of communication open and the
supervision missions, especially after the consultant team's departure, felt
that effective use could be made of the Credit funds. Therefore, rather than
recommending a suspension and then the cancellation of the Credit, the
supervision missions worked with the GOSL staff to make the Project into a sort
oi rolling plan to try to achieve at least some of the Project's aims. This
resulted in two fine-year extensions of the Credit Closing Date in order to
allow the Government enough time to make use. of the Credit funds. However,
while the motives of the missions may have been laudable, their efforts did
not, in the end, contribute greatly toward achieving the original Project
objectives. Considering the nature and complexity of the Project, the IDA
should have been prepared not only to devote greater resources to its
supervision but also should have ensured that proper coordination took place
.between the various sectoral d'ivisions which were to have been supervising
project components. On the Government's side, fault can be found with the
apparent lack of commitment to the overall project goal of establishing a sound
planning capability and the long-term, institution building benefits which that
would have brought about. This lack of commitment was demonstrated in many
ways, e.g. failure to appoint qualified counterpart staff or to make the
necessary budgetary allocations to establish and properly fund the planning
units in some of the sectoral ministries. Both GOSL and IDA are, to some
extent, responsible for the poor p,erformance of the consultant, since it should
have been clear'that it was unlikely that the firm had the potential to provide
.adequately the services which would be required under the Project and this fact
should have precluded the consultant's selection.



-10                              ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
I. Project Background and Preparation
A. Background
1.     The UNDP started providing planning assistance to GOSL in 1970. The
executing agency for both the first project and its successor in 1975 was the
UN Department of Technical Cooperation for Development (UNDTCD). The First
National Development Plan, meant to cover the years 1974/75 - 1978/79, was
prepared with the assistance of the team of advisors fielded by UNDTCD.
However, completion of the Plan coincided with the oil price rise in 1973 and,
for this and a variety of other reasons, the Plan was never implemented.
Preparation of a Secornd National Development Plan was not finally scheduled
until 1980, this time to cover the years 1981/82 - 1984/85 and'it was not until
1978 that the Government was able to come up with an in.terim, medium-term
Public Investment Program (PIP) as a stopgap measure. Indeed, the Second
National Development Plan has yet to be done, despite the continued technical
assistance received from the UNDP. The Government relies instead on rolling
three year PIPs which have proved to be more flexible and manageable.
B. Project Preparation
2.       Following the Government's request in December, 1978, and the IDA's
Agreement to consider planning assistance as a vehicle to recommence lending to
GOSL, an identification mission was sent to Sierra Leone in January/February,
1979, and a follow-up preappraisal mission visited Freetown in May, 1979. Both
were designed to identify possible project components and, through discussions
with other donors, cofinanciers. Originally, it had been thought that the Bank
Group would lend only $200,000/ $300,000 of the project costs with the
remainder coming from other sources. This was being considered until just
before the appraisal of the project in August, 1979, largely because, until
that time, it was not clear whether the Bank would be the executing body for
the continuation of the provision of the planning advisors.to the Ministry of
Development and Economic Planning (MDEP) or whether this would again fall to
UNDTCD. Eventually, it was decided that the IDA credit would fund long and
short term consultants for four sectoral ministries (Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF),Health (MOH),Works (MOW) and Education (MOE)), training, project
feasibility studies and vehicles. The Bank also agreed to be executing agency
for two one-man UNDP-funded projects:, an infrastructure advisor to assist MDEP;
and, a fiscal advisor for the Ministry of Finance. Simultaneously, the UNDTCD
was to ccntinue to execute the UNDP assistance to MDEP on an extended and
somewhat broader scale. The reason for this compromise (about which there are
indications that the UNDP in New York and the Bank were somewhat dubious) was
that the UNDTCD had been?involved with planning assistance in Sierra Leone too
long and the preparation of the extension of the existing UNDP project had gone
too far at that point to allow the Bank to become the executing agent without
causing some disruption. While some slight delay may have resulted, this
decision must be considered an error for, although it is true that no one UN
Agency nor any other donor should be seen or even be perceived to be attempting
to dominate the aid process, each has a responsibility to assess each project
proposed for its financing carefully and, should serious reservations exist
about any facet of them (as they apparently did in this case) to address them.
3.     Specifically, the Project was meant to increase Government's ability
to carry out development planning, the preparation of development projects,
the training of local staff and the monitoring and evaluation of investment
programs. To accomplish this, the Project provided for the provision of funds
for:



- 1 1 -    '                     ANNEX1
Page 2 of 2 pages
(a)  10 man-years of advisors for the four sectoral
ministries (5 advisors for two years each);
(b) 75 man-months of short-term consultants;
(c)  training, with the emphasis on two in-country
seminars but with provision for study tours
abroad;and,
(d) project preparation and feasibility studies.'
It was assumed that this assistance would support the preparation of the 2nd
National Development Plan by MDEP and eventually enable GOSL to re-shape its
policies to develop a public investment program which would sustain a balance
between social'and productive needs and remain within the country's resource
capabilities.
4.     Since there seemed to be real commitment, and the only important issue
remaining was the Government's economic performance, which seemed improved,
or at least intproving, the Project was submitted to Senior Management under
cover of a Decision Memorandum dated October 10,1979, and following approval,
negotiations were held in Freetown from November 19 to 21, 1979. During
negotiations, it was agreed that two special conditions would apply to the
Project:
(a) contracts for advisors and consultants would be
subject to the approval of IDA; and
(b)  the Government was to establish, as a condition of
Effectiveness, a technical level working committee
consisting of representatives of the planning units
and appropriate professional staff of the sectoral
and central ministries.
Despite the Government's assurances',however,there remained some concern
that there might not be complete commitment on the part of GOSL to its own
development goals as indicated 'by the economy. Also, there was some concern
that it might be difficult to locate and recruit the ri.ght type of advisors to
successfully carry out.the Project aims. Nonetheless, the Project was presented
to and approved by the Board on December 27, 1979, and the Credit was signed on
February 8, 1980. After a delay of several months and continued prodding from
the IDA the Government created the technical committee as required and, the
other conditions having been met, the Credit was declared effective on June 30,
1980. The Closing Date was December 31, 1982.



- 12-                            ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5 pages
II. Project Management and Execution
A. Project Management
1.     Management was not really seen as an issue at the commencement of the
Project for two reasons:
(a)  the Government had agreed at negotiations to
resuscitate the National Planning Council and the
Interministerial Committee of Permanent Secretaries
to coordinate planning policy and to create a
technical level working committee consisting of
representatives of the planning units and
appropriate professional staff of the sectoral and
central ministries. The latter was a condition of
Credit Effectiveness and the technical committee
was indeed established but it is doubtful that it
met more than once or twice over the entire life of
the Project in spite of repeated urging on the part
of the Bank; and,
(b)  it was originally envisaged that the long-term
advisors would be employed as individuals and they
would need little other coordination since they
would be working almost solely with the staff of
the Ministries to which they were assigned.
The result of this was that very little cross sectoral management did take,
place. The consulting firm with which GOSL eventually contracted for the
provision of the long term advisors arranged for the contract to call for an
"Overall Project Manager" with "responsibility for the preparation of the
Project, overall coordination and monitoring." However, this person was to
visit Sierra Leone only twice during the contract for one month at a time. It
is unclear what specific management was provided under this clause of the
contract. (The IDA was also guilty of failing to assure the provision of cross
sectoral support between its own Divisions. See Annex 3.)
B. Selection of the Consultants
2.     The Project was originally designed on the basis that individuals would
be employed by GOSL to carry out the duties of the five advisors in the
sectoral Ministries and that the short term studies and consultancies would be
awarded on a case by case basis lo the best qualified individuals or firms as
necessary. The two prime reasons for this decision were that individuals were
almost always substantially less expensive than consultants provided-through
firms because a firm's overhead charges and profit would not be added to the
costs and that individually recruited advisors' loyalties would be more
obviously with the Government than those employed by a firm. The appraisal
mission discussed this with officials of the Government, agreement was reached
to follow this approach, and, as early as December, 1979, the Bank began
submitting the curricula vitae of potential candidates to the Government for
review. However, in May, 1980, a European consulting firm submitted a proposal
to the Government to carry out the entire Project. This proposal was copied to
the Bank, which informed GOSL in a letter to the Development Minister in June,
1979, that, while the advisors proposed by the firm should be considered along



-13-                             ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 5 pages
with the many other c.v. which the Government were reviewing, the Bank still
felt that individually recruited personnel would better suit the needs of the
Project.
3.     Despite a reiteration of this view and a reminder that the Bank must
review the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of all the
advisors and consultants, the Development Minister telexed on 30 July, 1980,
informing IDA that GOSL had accepted the firm's proposal to carry out.the
Project. The award was to include not only the long term advisors to the
sectoral Ministries but also the short term studies and consultancies which
were a part of the Project. Although the consultant had been active in Sierra
Leone and was then involved with the Mano River Union, it had no demonstrable
experience in the development planning field. Furthermore, the candidates
it had originally proposed for the long-term advisor positions were not
considered suitable for the posts. Therefore, the IDA was, at first, not
willing to agree to the selection of the consultant to carry out the Project.
Finally, though, the IDA did give in to the wishes of GOSL in its selection
despite the concerns about cost and over the objections of some'IDA staff who
remained unconvinced of the propriety of the selection and despite the
knowledge that at least one Ministry to benefit from the Project was not in
favor of the award nor of the procedures used in the selection of the
consultant by MDEP. However, IDA did insist that the short-term consultancies
be contracted separately and be awarded to the best qualified person or firm.
The consultant was to be eligible for consideration for such assignments as and
when they arose but not to the exclusion of other, possibly better qualified,
firms or individuals. (In the event, none of the short-term consultant
assignments was awarded to the firm.) This compromise must be considered one of
the initial failures by the IDA since it is clear that considerable
reservations about the selected firm's suitability remained.
4.     The contract between GOSL and the consultant was not finally signed
until March, 1981, due to delays in providing the Bank with draft copies of the
contract on a timely basis for review (the Bank's October, 1980, letter giving
detailed comments on the first draft was not answered until mid-February, 1981)
and because the consultant failed to propose candidates who were considered
properly qualified for their intended assignments. Unfortunately, these delays
led to some degree of friction between the consultants and GOSL on the one hand
and the Bank on the other. The consultant felt that the Bank was intentionally
slowing down the selection process because they were not aware that the Bank
was sending its comments to the Government and the Government felt that the
Bank was trying to exert too much control over the selection of staff, which
GOSL thought should be a Government prerogative. However,the contract was
signed in March, 1981,and the five advisors arrived in Sierra Leone between
June and September of that year. The contract, as approved by the Bank, was for
an amount not to exceed US$ 1.092,960. The Credit Agreement contained only $
840,000 in Category 1, from which the consultant was to be paid.Thus, there was
an initial and apparently unnoticed overrun of the Category by some $ 252,960.
The first formal recognition of this was during the November, 1981,
supervision.
5.     Some seventeen (17) short term consultancies were eventually awarded
under the'Project ranging from a review of the architectural plans for the new
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry building to the provision of two UN
Volunteers for one year each to the Office of Statistics. However, with the
exception of one contract awarded by MOW, one by MOP and two by MDEP, all of
the short term consultancies were given through MAP. Indeed, out of some
$ 620,000 disbursed from Categories 2 (short-term consultants) and S (project



-14-                             ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 5 pages
feasibility studies) , more than eighty percent was spent through MAF. The
contracts themselves were awarded to a variety of firms and individuals, both
Sierra Leoneans and expatriates, over the life of the Project.
C. Performance of the Consultants
Long Term Consultants
6.    The fact that the Government and IDA were at odds from the beginning
concerning the award of the contract for long term advisors to the consultant
quite probably served to sour the relationship between the consultant and Bank
staff early on. Thus one has a tendency to view any negative criticism of
the consultant's performance with a slightly jaundiced eye - at least
initially. Nonetheless,it should be remembered that, while the performance of
the individual long-term advisors under the contract was not entirely without
merit, the overall performance of the consultant was not really up to the
standard required. The five advisors were of uneven quality and none was ideal
for his assignment. They all racked direct experience in the type of project
preparation planning which was required under the Project and some were not
even convinced of the relevance of overall plans for specific sectors. The
consultant's backstopping and supervision of the individual experts was almost
non-existent largely because the firm lacked any experience in macro/sector
planning work. Further, the logistical/administrative support for the advisors
from the consultant was also inadequate and resulted in frequent complaints
fron. the advisors about prompt payment of salaries, housing, etc. Throughout
the assignment, the consultant appeared to demonstrate little interest in
project implementation or progress. True, in the "Final and Conclusive Progress
Report" prepared by the consultant in October, 1983, the consultant stated that
there were impediments to optimum working conditions during implementation and
that these problems caused considerable delays. The statement is irrefutable,
especially in the cases of MOW and MOE where the advisors lacked the minimum
requirements of adequate counterpart staff and office facilities throughout. In
addition to the lack of Government support, the advisors complained of the
sometimes conflicting advice which they received from the Government, the
consultant and IDA officials. Each of the advisors had to go through a process
of acclimatization which included an acceptance of the seeming lack uf interest
in and support of planning in general and an eventual re-definition of his job
description to accept this :eality and still acconitish some diminished part of
the original plan. The advisors achieved uneven results from this exercise, but
the fault lies more in the project design, which assumed far more Government
support than was there, and to the almost complete lack of technical back-up
which they received from the consultant.
Short Term Consultants
7.    The performance of the short-term consultants was generally satisfactory.
As noted in paragraph 5 above, more than 80% of these contracts by value were
performed under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The
performance by the consultants under these contracts is discussed in Annex 6.
Of the remainder, one contract was for the services of a long-term consultant
to assist the Ministry of Works, another to employ two UN Volunteers to assist
the Central Statistics Office, another to hire a consultant to assist in the
review of the draft of the National Development Plan for MDEP and the last was
was for the services of a Sierra Leonean economist to carry out a Public



;  - 15 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 5 pages
Enterprises Study under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. In all cases,
the performance of the consultants was satisfactory and in line with thei.r TOR.
Nonetheless, neither the Public Enterprises Study nor the review of the
Development Plan was to receive the follow-up required.
D. Counterpart Funding and Government Performance
8.     As part of the Government contribution to the total Project costs, GOSL
was to open a special project bank account with the sum of 70,000 Leones, which
was to cover the running costs of the project vehicles and the expenses of the
advisors when travelling out of Freetown. In addition, the Government was to
reimburse the consultant at the rate of 10,000 Leones per year per advisor for
housing expenses, a total of 100,000 Leones. GOSL was immediately and
constantly in arrears on both of these amounts, which caused the consultant to
take the extraordinary step of instructing the advisors to refrain from
travelling up country. Finally, in order to at least make the advisors mobile,
the October, 1982, supervision mission agreed to the reallocation of 70,000
Leones into the project account upon Government confirmation that the remaining
100,000 Leones (including some 32,000 which had already been paid) had indeed
been deposited into the account. Until the Bank agreed to this reallocation the
advisors (under instructicns from the consultant) were largely confined to
Freetown.
9.     Generally, the performance of the Government was disappointing. There
are several factors which were partially responsible for this but, in the final
analysis, one is forced to the conclusion that there was a fairly general lack
of commitment to the goal of providing Sierra Leone with a rational planning
mechanism for the medium term. Some of the secondary, but important, factors
*which contributed to&the less than ideal performance on the part of GOSL were:
(a) the replacement of the Development Secretary
shortly after Board Presentation. Even had he been
sincerely committed to planning, his replacement
lacked any experience with the process by which
the Project had been put together;
(b) the decision to merge the Ministries of
Development and Finance. This temporary (it lasted
less than a year) merger diverted attention away
from the crucial issues developing around the
planning question at the time of Project start up;
(c) the preoccupation with the parliamentary elections
which lasted well into 1982 and caused attention
to be fuither diverted from the planning process;
(d) the failure to make MDEP the de facto as well as
the de jure coordinating point for the several
ongoing planning activities by not allowing it the
necessary authority.
Finally, the inability of the Government to retain the services of qualified
economists and other professional staff in the CPU and in MDEP at large was
probably a critical factor in the failure of the CPU to function properly. The
question of salary and benefit leveis designed to attract and keep such staff
remains unanswered despite a variety of suggested possible solutions. In



. 16-                            ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 5 pages
general, the budgetary resources allocated to the Project were inadequate
throughout and, at least to some extent, this was responsible for the Project's
lack of success.



- 17-                            ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3 pages
III. Project Supervision
1..      The responsibility for overall project supervision of the Project
ratnained somewhat blurred throughout. The International Relations Department
iiad identified and appraised the Project in response to the Programs inspired
idea and the first two supervision missions were carried out by IRD staff. In
1981, after the Regionalization of several IRD staff and responsibilities,
responsibility was shifted to the Technical Assistance Unit of the Western
Africa Projects Department. But, there has always been some confusipn about
to whom to direct supervision reports. This situation, essentially harmless
itself, was exacerbated, probably to the detriment of the Project, by the
number and variety of informal, ancillary supervisory efforts occasioned by
the number of different sectors involved and by staff changes within the
Bank's divisions. This hodge-podge supervision caused concerns early in the
Project since, whether correctly or not, the advisors felt that they were
receiving frequently conflicting direction. And, on top of the Bank's own
supervision missions (both formal and informal), the advisors were receiving
instructions from the consultant's Overall Project Manager that purported to
come from the Government. Concerns about these varying sources of direction
for the advisors were expressed time and again in reports from returning
missions and are cited as one of the excuses for any possible failure to
achieve Project goals in the consultant's final report.
2.       In view of the number of different sectors involved in the Project,
the amount of staff time devoted to supervising it was not very large:
Overall Supervision ( staffweeks )
FY80      FY81       FY82      FY83       FY84      FY85      TOTAL
6.5       1.1       10.5      20.3        9.3       5.6        53.3
Supervision by Sector ( staffweeks )
Tech. Assistance Programs Agriculture Transport Health Education Total
  _                                      - _                 ---------
29.3           20.0         1.9          1.5       0.5      0.1       53.3
Considering that both transportation and agriculture projects were under
active preparation and an ongoing education project absorbed supervision
time, it is not surprising that little time has been recorded against this
Project by .he sectoral Divisions. Certainly, the agricultural staff of the
World Bank Regional Mission in Abidjan spent a reasonable amount of time
supervising the studies being carried out under the CLedit but apparently
that time was charged to the preparation of the Agricultural Sector Credit
and/or ongoing agricultural projects. On the other hand, one cannot dismiss
the possibility that, at least in sectors other than agriculture the Project
did indeed suffer from a lack of adequate sectoral supervision. As early as
November,1981, the supervision missions called for greater efforts on the
part of the individual divisions. The fact that so little was accomplished in
the area of Health or Education under the Project might be attributed to
this. Nonetheless, to be fair it should be remembered that both MOH and MOE
were unable to supply the advisors with competent counterpart personnel and
both chose to use their advisors more as trouble shooters for the Ministries'
managements than as planners, decisions which further delayed establishment



*                                             - 18 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
of the planning units within the ministries.
3.       All in all, despite the number of supervet4.on missions (nine formal
and at least two major informal visits), it is probably fair to say that the
-supervision effort on the Bank's part was less than satisfactory. There was
little if any coordination between the various sectoral units involved in the
supervision within the Bank, even though the supervision reports called for
such liaison. Admittedly, the project design complicated things by installing
the advisors in separate Ministries without any real unifying force, but this
shortcoming could have been overcome if it was addressed through concerted
effort early in the Project. It wasn't. As a result, the Project was already
deteriorating to such an extent by the time the advisors arrived that it is
doubtful that they could have done much to stem the tide. In November, 1981,
the Project was rated having a deteriorating trend and from then until
mid-1984, it remained on the list of projects with major implementation
problems.
Summary Supervision Ratings
11/80   7/81   11/81   il/82   5/83   10/83   2/84   7/84
Status             1      2        2       3       3       3      2       2
Trend              1      1        3       3       1       1       1      1
Although the Project was not formally supervised between November, 1981, and
October, 1982, there were two substantive reviews of Project problems by Bank
staff in April, 1982, and in June, 1982.
4.       In the final analysis, it would appear that the Bank's performance in
supervising the Project was inadequate.. The Bank seemed unable to secure
Government agreement to many of the changes which the supervision missions
suggested. Despite lengthy minutes of meetings detailing the agreed disposition
of the remaining funds in the Credit Account commencing in May, 1983, more than
20% of the Credit was eventually cancelled. The lack of progress in institution
building was noted early in the Project but, when it continued, little was
done. There was, from the start, a very real lack of coordination of the
supervision efforts by the various sectoral Divisions. The difficulties to be
expected in trying to supervise such a diffuse number of ministerial components
was further exacerbated by the shifting supervisory responsibilities between
the Regional Mission in Abidjan and the sectoral divisions in Washington. This
lack of clarity extended to responsibilities for the Project as opposed to the
on-going UNDP assistance as well.
5.       Beyond the question of coordination of efforts, it has been suggested
that -it may be impossible to properly supervise the input of individual
advisors in such situations since supervision missions are not usually launched
more than every six months and often more infrequently. These visits may well
raise questions about the utility of individual consultants but are unlikely to
result in premature termination of a contract. Furthermore, while useful ideas
can be discussed concerning possible short-term consultancies and studies,
these often languish following the mission's departure since there is no direct
follow-up. One suggested solution to this problem is the employment of someone
to supervise the work of the individual consultants on an advisory team; advise
Government and the Bank of sny advisors who do not appear to be fitting into
their positions, and who do not (or cannot) achieve much; to follow up on
possible short term consultancies and liaise with the Bank/IDA on arrangements



- 19-, *ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3 pages
for hiring consultants for this work. This individual should not be resident in
the concerned country but .should probably visit it periodically, perhaps
totalling.3 months a year, with a total of 5-6 months including follow-up from
his/her base (probably Europe).



-20-                             ANNEX 4
IV. Disbursements
1.      Disbursements lag6ed far behind the original estimates from the
commencement of the Project. There are several reasons for this, including the
delays in agreeing on the selection of a consultant to provide the long term
advisors and finalizing the contract, suspensions of disbursements on Credits
to GOSL due to late payments on existing debt service and a lack of central
coordination for the Project activities, which allowed the situation to develop
where only one Ministry made extensive use of the Credit despite several
opportunities to do so. Although the ratio of disbursements to outstanding
Credits was quite good for the period covering the fiscal years 1979 - 1981
(about 49%), the delays in the recruitment of the long-term advisors caused
actual disbursements on this Project to fall short of the original estimates
from the start. And, even after the contract with the consultant had been
signed, disbursements continued to lag behind appraisal and revised estimates.
2.       The lack of coordination of the various ministries' activities on the
one hand and of the supervision inputs by the sectoral divisions on the other
resulted in a great deal of confusion concerning which Category of the Credit
to disburse from for specific consultants expenses. Although recognized early
by the Bank's Resident Mission in Abidjan as a potential problem, nothing
seems to have been done to monitor the situation by either the Government or,
more importantly, by the Bank. One example is the Financial Reorganization
Study undertaken for the MAF by outside consultants. The costs for this were
listed by the supervision missions in their reports as being disbursed from
Category 5 when they were paid from Category 2. Another example is the contract
for a study of the organization of the delivery of agricultural services which
was disbursed partly from Category 2 (for the principal and original portion of
the contract) and partly from Category 5 (for a later request for reimbursement
of printing expenses.  Neither of these is vastly important in itself, but they
do indicate that sufficient care was not being taken. Generally, the
Disbursements Division reports that the documentation necessary to back up
withdrawal applications was either very late in arriving or simply wasn't sent.
This resulted in a fairly loose system of disbursements being authorized by the
officers supervising the Project and often, despite many requests, not ever
being adequately documented.



-21-                             ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3 pages
V. Training
1.       The President's Report addressed the area of training only briefly.
Since, as it pointed out, the practice of training through the use of
counterparts on a one-to-one basis had not always been effective, an enhanced
scheme was proposed for training through task forces. Under this system, the
ministries would identify local staff to participate in major tasks with each
advisor as members of specific task forces. It was thought that this would
broaden the training base and allow greater numbers of ministry staff to be
trained. In addition to this on-the-job type of training, there were to have
.been at least two in-country seminars dealing with sector and central planning,
project preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. These seminars
were to be designed in consultation and coordination with the UNDTCD team in
MDEP.
2.       As often happens, the advisors' TOR were of necessity altered after
their.arrival in Freetown and, while a certain amount of hands on training did
take place in specific instances, the idea of training.through task forces.
never really got off the ground. The issue of training by'technical assistanta
.is one which merits far more attention than it seems to receive, especially in
projects which are explicitly designed to enhance institution building. Many of
those qualified technically to provide specific types of technical assistance
are not equally well qualified to address the training needs of the local staff
with whom they are assigned to work. Striking the proper balance between these
two important aspects of project implement-ation is often difficult and often
not given the weight that it should receive in the selection of consultants.
This Project is a case in point.
3.       Only one in-country seminar took place and that was not until toward
the end of 1983, several months after the final departure of the long-term
advisors (except for the advisor to the MOE, who had been retained under the
Education Project). Following a Bank request in January, 1892, the Development
Secretary provided the Bank with a proposal for a seminar/workshop in
Development Planning and Project knalysis. This proposal was not received by
the Bank until November, 1982, but it served as a good starting point for the
eventual seminar which was held between October 24 and December 12, 1983. The
executing agency for the seminar was the CPU in MDEP and to assist with
preparing and conducting it, GOSL employed the services of the Project Planning
Center (PPC) of the University of Bradford in the U.K. in August, 1983. The PPC
provided the services of trainer to assist in conducting the seminar and he
spent three weeks in Freetown preparing and carrying out the early part of the           *
course. Unfortunately, no post-seminar.evaluation was done since this could
have been a useful in the preparation of such seminars in the future.
4.       Although no overseas training had been envisaged under the Project, it
became clear during the course of implementation that such training would serve
two purposes: it would benefit the recipients by exposing them to professional
and relevant training; and, it would serve to rechannel funds which had
originally been allocated for other purposes but, as had become obvious by mid-
*1982, would not be used. Therefore, between mid-1982 and early 1985, nine
officials of the'Government were sent on courses overseas:
(a) MDIP - University of Pittsburg, 8 week.
program on Government Budgeting and Financial
Hanagement. 1985;



-22                              ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3 pages
(b)  MAF - University of Strathclyde, 11 week
course on Project Appraisal, Planning and
Control. 1982;
(c)  MAF - Urwick Management Centre, 4 week
course in Management. 1983;
(d) MDEP - University of Pittsburg, 3 week
course on Leadership on Inovational Motivation.
1983;
(e) CPU'- Economic Development Institute,
7 week course on National Economic
Management. 1983;
(f)  MAF - Overseas National Development
Corporation, 12 week course on Agricultural.
Project Planning and Analysis. 1983;
(g) MAF - University of Reading, Dipioma
Course in Planning. 1984;
(h) Central Statistics Office - Diploma Course
at the Indian Statistical Institute. 1984.
5.       The amount of overseas training is responsible for the more than 100%
overrun in Category 3 of the Credit Account. (The original amount in the
Category was $ 50,000. Overseas training alone cost almost $ 84,000.) However,
in the view of the supervising staff,it represented a rational and beneficial
use of funds which would have otherwise been cancelled. And, at least in the
case of the Ministry of Agriculture (again), this was so. The training received
by the staff of the CSO at the Indian Statistical Institute was also probably
justified under the Project. But, there is less justification for the approval
of using Credit funds to top up officials allowances as happened in the case of
MDEP. Nonetheless, the agreement between the Government and the Bank to
reallocate funds as necessary for training which could truly benefit the
recipients and GOSL was reasonable under the circumstances amid some of the more
obvious attempts at using the Credit proceeds improperly fot unnecessary travel
were disapproved. There would seem to be three issues here:
(a) to what exte:'t is it reasonable and correct to
reallocate Loan/Credit proceeds for training
pu.poiles. This is obviously a judgment call
and the response will vary. In this case, it
appears that the response was generally right
although, in some instances, the study tours were
awarded as "rewards" and there was clearly more
value in the seminar prepared for several
participants by the University of Bradford;
(b) to what extent does the importance of spending
money outveigh that of the relevance and content
of the training. There is some possibility that
the IDA staff agreed to overseas training under
the Project as much as a means of disbursing more
funds as of upgrading the capabilities of GOSL
staff; and,



-23-                              ANNEX S
Page 3 of 3 pages
(c) counterpart training continues to suffer because
of the difficulties in attracting and retaining
quality staff as counterparts. There is an-urgent
need to identify and provide incentives for
counterparts if such projects are to succeed.



-24-                             Annex 6
Page 1 of 4 pages
VI. Performance within Ministries
A. Ministry of Education
1.     The primary goal of the Project as it applied to the Ministry of
Educ'ation was to strengthen the Ministry by the provision of a long-term
advisor to assist in the preparation of long-range integral plans for
educational development within the policy guidelines and financial limits
prescribed by the Minister. The advisor was also expected to assist the
Ministry's Planning Unit, which had been established under the existing IDA
assisted Education Project but had been inadequately staffed, in other priority
tasks:
(a) preparation of annual and short-term educational
development programs;
(b)  preparation of proposals for the education.l.and
training system;
(c)  establishment of methodologies for the evaluation
of both the implementation and effectiveness of
development plans and programs; and,
(d)  analysis of educational problems requiring priority
action and recommendations to solve them.
To an extent, some activity took place in all of these areas. However, the MOE
Planning Division never really functioned as originally intended despite the
fact that funds were available under the Second Education Project for the
annual collection and evaluation of educational data. Considering that use of
these funds had been made by the Institute of Education earlier for this
purpose, it is not clear why the Planning Division failed to utilize them.
2.     In its final report, the consultant, citing various constraints, states
that:
(a)  proposals for the regulation and formulation of
assignment and job descriptions for the officers,
reorganization of the Planning Division, and for
further assistance to the Division were not
implemented (financial constraints); and,
(b)  it was impossible to collect all the planning data
necessary for sector planning due to financial and
personnel constraints.
Some of the constraints cited were real and served to impede the progress of
the Project. Also, some things were done in the fields of sub-project
evaluation, coordination between the Ministry and MDEP and in the preparation
of the Third Education Project financed by IDA. The advisor should receive some
of the credit for this. Indeed, he was asked to remain with the Ministry after
the consultant's contract expired and did so under the Third Education Project.
Nonetheless, there was much disagreement about reappointing him under the Third
Education Project and despite his continued presence and the ongoing
implementation of the Third Fducation Project, which provides for vehicles,



25 -                          ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4 pages
equipment and operational funds for the Division, there do not appear to have
been any real long-term achievements as far as institution building is
concerned within the Planning Division of thte Ministry, which is still plagued
by the same constraints.
3.     The Ministry of Education did not make use of any of the funds available
under the Credit for short-term consultancies for project preparation and
feasibility studies.
B. Ministry of Health
1.   According to the President's Report for the Project, the advisor assigned
to the Ministry of Health was to have been charged primarily with advising and
assisting the Permanent Secretary for Health with developing a planning unit to
assist the Ministry in the formulation and evaluation of health programs to be
implemented during the Second National Development Plan. He was also to have
advised the Ministry in a variety of other activities including:
(a) the design of appropriate data systems;
(b) improvements in health services delivery;
(c) family planning services;
(d) health education; and,
(e) the establishment of effective logistics and supply
systems for drugs and equipment.
In any of the Ministries, this would have been a very full workload. However,
in the Ministry of Health, the Permanent Secretary and his team were so
overwhelmed by routine administration that they had little or no time for
development and reorganization work. This situation was only exacerbated by the
high rate of turnover among the professional staff. Finally, the Health
Planning Advisor was given the additional job of being the local project
manager for the consultant. For these reasons, the Advisor was much more
heavily involved in the day-to-day processes of the Ministry than had been
planned and was unable to devote the necessary time to building up the
Ministry's planning unit, much less the staff's ability to formulate project
proposals and plans. The net result of all of this is that the consultant was
compelled to comment as follows in the final report. "General activities can
still be characterized by crisis management for keeping the medical service
functional at its core with not much time to spend for conceptualizing long-
term objectives and policies, not to mention the readiness to design strategies
and action plans."
2.     The Health Planning Advisor apparently did maintain extensive informal
contacts with colleagues in other organizations and Ministries and was able to
prepare a variety of Ministry responses to a broad range of issues. In
addition, he oversaw the preparation of a number of projects and programs
which were submitted to donors for consideration. Finally, a certain amount of
on-the-job training of the Advisor's counterpart did take place. However, the
Ministry Planning Urit had not yet been established when the Advisor departed
after two years service; evaluation of ongoing projects proved inadequate due
to the paucity of the collection and analysis of sectoral data; and, in
general, little real institution building seems to have taker place. Again, the



26-                           ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4 pages
Ministry of Health did not avail itself of funds from the Credit Account for
the production of project feasibility or other studies.
C. Ministry of Works
1.     Here again, the severe constraints placed on the Ministry due to the
shortage of professional staff in various sections, along with the absence of a
Planning Unit, made forward plann.ing a rather hit or miss affair. Therefore,
the Pi. ect proposed an advisor to be assigned to the Highways Sector to
develop a Highway Maintenance and Construction Planning Unit. In addition, the
advisor was to be charged with the following duties:
(a) assisting in the review and analysis of existing
and proposed plans concerning the sector;
(b) advising on the establishment of priorities both
between and within the activities of-routine road
maintenance, periodic maintenance, rehabilitation,
reconstruction and the construction of new roads;
and,
(c) assisting the Professional Head with the selection
of highway equipment, organizing road maintenance
works, improving administrative and financial
procedures and reorganizing the Ministry.
In addition to the appointment of a long-term advisor, another consultant was
employed by the Ministry and funded under the Credit to assist the Ministry in
the Highway sector. Although funded under the category of the Credit for short-
term consultants, he spent some eight months in Freetown.
R.     The results of this input of technical assistance were, as in the other
Ministries, somewhat mixed. A well qualified counterpart was eventually
assigned to work with the advisor but not until more than a year had elapsed.
Training did take place but it was largely done on the job. The advisor was
able to foster greater communication/coordination between the Ministry and
concerned bodies elsewhere but it is not clear that these survived his
departure. Some project preparation work seems to have been carried out but was
hampered by the lack of existing data and the inability of the Ministry to
collect it due to the shortage of staff. With the exception of the costs of an
additional long-term advisor, no Project funds were used for short-term
consultancies.
D. Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
1.     From the outset, this component of the Project was intended to receive
somewhat more attention than other sectors. The Ministry was to benefit from
the services of two long-term advisors - a senior economic planner and a
project planner, both to work with the staff of the Planning, Evaluation,
Monitoring and Services Unit (PEMSU) of the Ministry. (In the event, it was
agreed to alter the title of the former to Senior Agricultural Economist
(Sector Planner) but the TOR remained essentially the same.) The Sector Planner
was charged with the following:
(a) advising on the allocation of ducies to the staff



-27-                            ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4 pages
of the planning section of PEMSU and coordination
in the formulation of policy 4lternatives and the
ranking of projects;
(1)  assisting the Head, PEMSU, on the deveiopment of
of agricultural sector policies and programs;
(c)  assisting in the preparation of an agriculture
sector investment program; and,
(d)  liaison with other PEMSU sections, other Divisions
in the Ministry and with MDEP.
The Project Planner was to have:
(a)  assisted in the ideptification, preparation and
appraisal of agricultural investment projects;
and,
(b)  examined the various aspects of credit, marketing,
farm management, mechanization, land development,
extension services, storage and processing with a
view to coordinating projects and avoiding
duplication of efforts.
2.     Partly due to the fact that PEMSU was already functioning when the
advisors arrived, they were able to settle in more quickly than their
colleagues in other Ministries. Nonetheless, they were not really able to
achieve a great deal of the institution building aspects of their assignment.
While the Agricultural Services Sector Project (ASSP) was largely prepared at
this time, it is not clear that the advisors can claim much of the credit for
it. The advisors were often required to attend to duties in the Ministry other
than those set out in their TOR due'to the shortage of professional staff and
they did produce some helpful inputs into a wide variety of project-oriented
documents but they were severely hampered in the achievement of their TOR by the
lack of data and support. As in other Ministries, training by the advisors was
largely of an on-the-job type. They cannot take credit for the extensive use of
Credit funds for overseas training for Ministry staff and had completed their
contracts prior to the'planning seminar held at the end of 1983.
3.     Some fourteen short-term consultancies were awarded by MAF under the
Project. These generally were of relatively limited scope, inexpensive and
achieved their intended ends. Two of the consultancies were extensive: the
Study on the Organization of Agricultural Services and the Study on the
Financial Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry Wit'- the
Ministry of Natural Resources both of which were carried out by outside
consultants. Both of these were in preparation for the ASSP, as were most of
the other short-term contracts.



-28-
Appendix 1
Value and purpose bf Consultant Contracts
Sierra Leone - Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 970-SL)
Category      Purpose                   Ministry    Value(US$)
1          Long-term advisors                     1,034.891
2          Long-term advisor            MOW          83,120
2          Rural Banking                MAF,          4,387
2                                                    24,647
2                "                       "            9,645
2          Org. of AgriQ.Services                   110,143
2          Pricing/Marketing                         57,692
2          Financial Reorganization
of MAF:and MNR                     134,174
2          Public Enterprises           MOF          15,200
2          Review Development Plan    MDEP           14,870
2          Cen. Stattstics Office       MDEP         70,000
2          Unspecifiqd                  MAP          11,843
5          Seed Multiplication          MAF          16,696
5          Org. of Agric.Services        "            5,612
5          Architectural Study                        4,178
5          Household:tSurvey                           1,703
5          Irrigation Study                          14,772
5          Oil Pa1i.Study                "            8,783
5          Institutional Devel.Study                 21,025
The values cited include all expenses incurred under the contracts
for which disbursements were made from the Credit Account.



