                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   Report No:83268 -TG




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                     PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                    OF
                TONGA POST TSUNAMI RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
                              GRANT H628-TO


                                                TO THE

                                      KINGDOM OF TONGA


                                          November 18, 2013




Timor-Leste, Papua New Guinea and the Pacific Islands
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
ESSAF   Environmental and Social Safeguards Screening and Assessment
        Framework
GOT     Government of Tonga
IDA     International Development Association
MLECCNR Ministry of Lands, Environment, Climate Change and Natural Resources
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMU     Project Management Unit
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
TOR     Terms of Reference




              Regional Vice President:       Axel van Trotsenburg
                    Country Director:        Franz R. Drees-Gross
                     Sector Manager:         Michel Kerf
                   Task Team Leader:         Michael Bonte-Grapentin




                                         2
                                        TONGA
                          TONGA POST TSUNAMI RECONSTRUCTION

                                                     CONTENTS

                                                                                                                        Page

A.   SUMMARY ................................................................................................................ 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................... 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ............................................................................................ 6
D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY ......................................................................................... 9
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING ....................................... 11




                                                             3
              TONGA POST TSUNAMI RECONSTRUCTION (H628-TO)

                                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER


A. SUMMARY

The Government of Tonga (GOT) has requested additional activities to be implemented
to restore and improve additional essential infrastructure facilities on Niuatoputapu,
utilizing the balance of as yet remaining uncommitted project Grant funds and
undisbursed funds in the Designated Account of about US$375,000. New activities focus
on preventative maintenance of the island’s main collector road providing improved
linkage between the reconstruction areas and social and economic facilities. Including
these activities will require changes to the scope of the Project Development Objective,
which was very narrowly focused, and this will require approval of the Board of
Executive Directors.

The restructuring also proposes (i) minor associated changes to modify component
descriptions; (ii) reallocation of funds between disbursement categories; (iii) modification
of the results framework; and (iv) use of funds retroactively for new activities being
conducted by the Tongan Government in accordance with the Bank’s procurement and
financial management policies and social and environmental safeguards..

B. PROJECT STATUS

In summary, the project has performed well, despite the difficulties working in the
remote far northern Tongan province of Niuatoputapu. Total disbursement for the IDA
funds is 95 per cent and all components are currently nearly complete and within the
initially planned budget. Construction of houses completely damaged by the tsunami, as
well as retrofitting of partially damaged houses and community buildings has been
completed. Associated strengthening of Tonga’s disaster risk management capacity is
almost complete.

The project was initially due to close on March 31, 2013, but has been extended until
December 31, 2013, to allow completion of final training activities, inspections, and
dissemination of results from risk management TA. Approximately US$0.4 million in
IDA funds, including undisbursed advances to the designated account, remain
uncommitted or unutilized to date.

The four components of the projects are: (i) Cyclone-Resistant Housing Construction to
finance land surveying, planning and allotment, through the provision of technical
assistance, as well as payment of resettlement compensation, the construction and
supervision of about 851 units of low-cost cyclone-resistant housing in Niuatoputapu to
replace completely damaged houses, as well as associated consulting assignments and

1
  During project appraisal 85 fully destroyed houses were expected to be built, however this was ultimately
reduced to 73 following additional housing reconstruction provided by other donors. As set out below, the
number of partially damaged houses and other buildings repaired or restored was increased from 40 to 54.
                                                     4
ancillary works (water and sanitation); (ii) Retrofitting of partially damaged housing and
buildings to finance construction materials and small works for the retrofitting of about
402 partially damaged houses, small enterprises buildings and community halls, including
consulting services for assessment of needs, design and supervision of works; (iii)
Strengthening of Disaster Risk Management to provide equipment for hazard and risk
information assessment, to support institutional strengthening of the planning and GIS
units of the Ministry of Land Survey and Natural Resources, and to finance the
preparation of community disaster risk management plans in Niuatoputapu; and (iv)
Project Management to support the Project Management Unit, which carries out
management and coordination of Project activities, financial management and
accounting, environmental and social safeguards, procurement, monitoring and reporting,
and to cover the costs of carrying out project audits, including audits of Project Accounts,
and agreed operational expenses.

Component A (Cyclone Resistant Housing Construction) is almost complete. All families
whose homes were destroyed by the tsunami have now been provided with new, cyclone-
resistant housing, along with access to water supply and sanitation facilities that meet or
exceed the living standards they had before the tsunami. The only activities remaining are
cultural appropriate training in the use of the new bathroom facilities and a final
inspection report by the supervising engineer.

Component B (Building Retrofitting) is completed. All of the damaged (but not totally
destroyed) residential buildings and community halls have been fully repaired and nine
new buildings to replace destroyed small shops, bakeries and community facilities are
completed. Management and supervision of the retrofitting works is also complete.

Component C (Risk Management Capacity Strengthening) is almost complete.
Procurement of mapping equipment and software is completed and training for the use of
the upgraded mapping software has been provided. A capacity and needs assessment of
the Ministry of Lands, Environment, Climate Change and Natural Resources
(MLECCNR) in geospatial data management and developing risk information has been
undertaken. Technical assistance in strengthening the capacity of MLECCNR in
developing risk information and incorporating it in land use planning has been provided.
Community awareness and disaster preparedness planning is completed. The only
activity remaining is the dissemination of results to the communities and other
stakeholders.

Component D (Project Management) is almost complete. The management, coordination
and supervision of the new activities of preventative road maintenance are undertaken by
the National Roads Program of the Ministry of Infrastructure supported by the PMU of
the ongoing IDA-supported Transport Sector Consolidation Program. The services of the
project accountant will be retained on a part-time basis to complete the financial
management and accounting obligations under the project. All legal covenants are being
met and there are no outstanding Project financial audits.

2
  During implementation, the number of buildings repaired or restored was increased from 40 to 54,
including 38 residential houses and 7 community halls, that were damaged, but not fully destroyed; and 9
new buildings to replace destroyed small shops (4), bakeries (2) and communal weaving houses (3).
                                                    5
C. PROPOSED CHANGES

     Project Development Objective

      As the initial Project Development Objective (PDO) was narrowly framed
      towards the immediate critical emergency reconstruction activities, and did not
      explicitly include road works, the following changes are proposed to the PDO to
      allow for the inclusion of additional activities.
      Original:
      The Project Development Objective is to assist the Government of Tonga to
      implement its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami Recovery Program aimed at
      recovering the living standards of the population living in the island affected by
      the tsunami of September 30, 2009, through the reconstruction of residential
      houses with auxiliary water and sanitation facilities in Niuatoputapu, and
      strengthening Tonga’s capacity to address future natural disasters.
      Proposed:
      The Project Development Objective is to assist the Government of Tonga to
      implement its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami Recovery Program aimed at
      recovering the living standards of the population living in the island affected by
      the tsunami of September 30, 2009, through the reconstruction of residential
      houses with auxiliary infrastructure facilities in Niuatoputapu, and strengthening
      Tonga’s capacity to address future natural disasters.

     Results/indicators

      The proposed changes to the results framework are outlined in Annex 1, and
      include the addition of one intermediary results core indicator on the kilometers of
      rural roads resealed. It is also proposed to include indicators from the original
      project performance indicators in the results matrix, and specific baselines and
      targets are now provided for these indicators.

     Components

      The following additions highlighted in bold to component B are proposed to
      explicitly include prioritized additional activities in the project to improve
      associated infrastructure facilities utilizing all available Grant funds. This includes
      preventive maintenance of the island’s main collector road providing improved
      linkage between the reconstruction areas and social and economic facilities. It is
      also proposed to delete from the component description of part A and B the
      reference to the number of buildings constructed and repaired, and instead capture
      this information in the results framework.


      Part A: Cyclone Resistance Housing Construction


                                            6
    1.     Land surveying, planning and allotment, through the provision of
           technical assistance, as well as the payment of Resettlement
           Compensation.

    2.     Construction of residential low cost units at Category 4 cyclone standards
           with auxiliary water and sanitation facilities in Niuatoputapu to replace
           damaged houses no longer suitable for habitation as a result of the
           Tsunami of September 30, 2009, including design of houses and water and
           sanitation facilities, supply of construction materials, as well as water and
           sanitation facilities, transportation to and local assembly at the physical
           sites, and provision of technical assistance for construction design and
           supervision of works.

    Part B: Retrofitting of Partially Damaged Houses and Buildings and
    Infrastructure Services

    Retrofitting and restoration of partially damaged houses, small enterprise
    building and community halls, and auxiliary road infrastructure in
    Niuatoputapu, including construction materials, land preparation, road works
    and other small works, and technical assistance for assessment of needs,
    construction design and supervision of works.

   Reallocations

    The proposed reallocation is to (a) increase Category 2 (Resettlement
    Compensation) by an amount of SDR10,000 to fully cover the final approved
    compensation payments to households; and (b) reallocate savings under Category
    4 (Unallocated) to increase Category 3 (works under Part A.2 of the Project) to
    SDR1,920,000, reflecting actual expenditure, and Category 1 (Works under Parts
    A.1 and B of the Project, goods, consultants’ services, Operating Costs and
    Training) to SDR1,330,000. The increase in Category 1 will allow for the full
    implementation of the proposed new roadwork activities under Part B of the
    Project, as described above. The revised reallocation figures and percent of total
    financing are shown in the table below.




                                         7
        Category of Expenditure                Allocation SDR      % of Financing
             Current           Revised       Current     Revised   Current Revised
(1) Works under Parts A.1 and    n/a        1,180,000     1,330,00 100%     100%
    B of the Project, goods,
     consultants’ services,
 Operating Costs and Training
       (2) Resettlement          n/a           60,000        70,000     100%       100%
         Compensation
 (3) Works under Part A.2 of     n/a        1,880,000     1,920,000     100%       100%
           the Project
        (4) Unallocated          n/a         200,000         0
     TOTAL AMOUNT                          3,320,000     3,320,000

     Retroactive Financing

      It is proposed to retroactively finance the preventative maintenance works of 6.8
      km of main collector road. The Tongan Government decided to pursue these
      works in early 2012 while equipment and personnel were available and mobilized
      in Niuatoputapu in support of other activities of this project. The Bank team at
      that time indicated that while these activities were consistent with the overall
      objective of the Project, availability of resources from the IDA grant could only
      be determined at a later stage if savings from the activities initially envisaged
      were to materialize. At this time, all the original project activities are scheduled
      to be finalized within the existing financial envelope and therefore approval to
      finance these preventative maintenance works retroactively is being sought. The
      Government is aware that if approval for the project restructuring is not
      forthcoming, then the Government will need to cover the costs of the additional
      road works.

      The works are being conducted by the Ministry of Infrastructure through force
      account using labor-based methods appropriate to a remote island location. Force
      account as a procurement method was included in the financing agreement
      following a level 2 restructuring approved on 17 January 2012, which is proposed
      as the retroactive effectiveness date for the amendment letter. The costs to be
      retroactively financed will cover inter alia the supply of construction materials,
      fuel and small equipment (bitumen, kerosene, diesel, hand bitumen spreaders,
      etc.), hire of equipment, shipping and local transport costs, labor costs and costs
      of the restoration of quarries. Detailed cost estimates and implementation
      schedule have been prepared and updated following a site visit 17-24 July 2013
      by the supervising engineer and appraised by the project team as technically
      sound and achievable within the limited time before the closing date. The total
      costs, including preparatory works are estimated to be about US$375,000, or
      some 7.5% of total project financing. GOT agreed to co-finance this activity from
      proceeds of its Tsunami Recovery Fund to cover the on-site labor costs and
      ensure sufficient finance for the completion of the proposed road works, in case of
      cost overruns.

                                           8
         The Bank team has undertaken an assessment of the activities proposed for
         retroactive financing and confirmed that such activities are being undertaken in
         compliance with the Bank's procurement, financial management, and social and
         environmental safeguards and policies (further explanation in the Appraisal
         summary below).        For the activities to be eligible for reimbursement,
         documentation of expenditures acceptable to the Bank will be required.


D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

        Technical

         Preventative Maintenance to Main Road
         During the mission to Niuatoputapu in April 2012, it was noted that the sand seal
         surface of the main spine road across the island - constructed a year earlier3 - was
         showing signs of distress, which appeared to be caused by insufficient application
         of bitumen.

         The purpose of patching and resurfacing this main island road would be to
         undertake preventative maintenance to protect the existing road pavement by
         restoring the integrity of the coronus base course where degraded, and effectively
         providing a double sand seal surface, which is appropriate for the low traffic
         volumes on the island.

         The road forms an important link between the new inland villages being
         developed under the project, with the local bus ferrying all village children to and
         from the school.

         The proposal to carry out the maintenance work by force account will utilize the
         plant and equipment already on the island, but to ensure that acceptable standards
         of material and workmanship are implemented, a suitably qualified and
         experienced independent consultant will be engaged to supervise the works on a
         full-time basis.

        Social

         The new activities being proposed under this restructuring do not alter the existing
         social safeguard requirements for the project and permanent, negative social


3
  Several sections of the main collector road that were damaged by the tsunami and sealed by the Royal
Tongan Navy in 2011 are showing signs of surface and/or base failure. Inspection of these areas revealed
extensive reflective cracking in the sand seal and loss of bond between surface and base, which is seen as
an indication for insufficient thickness of the seal, most likely caused by insufficient bitumen. In addition,
the increased heavy traffic during reconstruction caused further deterioration of the road surfaces designed
for low traffic volumes (20 light vehicles on the island). Trial-reseals carried out in May or June 2012 with
different bitumen spray rates, all appear to have successfully eliminated any surface cracking and pothole
patching with a bitumen / coronous premix appears to have been very successful.
                                                      9
    impacts are not expected. The preventative maintenance works of the main road
    may cause temporary disruption of transport.

    The Project is in compliance with the requirements of the Environmental and
    Social Safeguards Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF). There are no
    significant outstanding safeguards issues in the ongoing project. The ESSAF
    includes guidelines on undertaking due diligence for land acquired prior to project
    approval. It also includes a Land Acquisition and Resettlement Framework to
    guide any involuntary land acquisition that may occur during project
    implementation. However, land acquisition is not required for the additional
    activities as works will be carried out at or along the existing road corridors.


   Environment

    The new activities being proposed under this restructuring do not alter the project
    risks or categorization of the project. The environmental category “B? will
    remain the same and the additional activities are expected to have benign
    environmental and social impacts mostly during construction similar to the
    original project. The new activities, namely, preventative road maintenance, will
    potentially have reversible impacts which are not large scale, similar to the
    original project. These are limited to typical construction related impacts which
    are easily mitigated.

    An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been prepared by the GOT to
    cover the impacts of the additional activities proposed in the restructuring. This
    has been disclosed locally and in the Bank’s InfoShop on November 1, 2012.
    Compliance with environmental requirements will continue to be monitored as
    part of regular supervision. The Environmental and Social Screening and
    Assessment Framework (ESSAF) will continue to be used, to guide the project
    implementer on the relevant safeguards procedures and measures that need to be
    taken during implementation and to also ensure compliance with the World
    Bank’s safeguard policies applicable to all subprojects funded under the project.




                                        10
                                                                                       ANNEX 1
                                                                           Results Framework and Monitoring



         Project Development Objective (PDO): The Project Development Objective is to assist the Government of Tonga to implement its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami Recovery
         Program aimed at recovering the living standards of the population living in the island affected by the tsunami of September 30, 2009, through the reconstruction of residential
         houses with auxiliary water and sanitation facilities in Niuatoputapu, and strengthening Tonga’s capacity to address future natural disasters.


         Revised Project Development Objective: The Project Development Objective is to assist the Government of Tonga to implement its Niuatoputapu Priority Tsunami Recovery
         Program aimed at recovering the living standards of the population living in the island affected by the tsunami of September 30, 2009 through the reconstruction of residential
         houses with auxiliary infrastructure facilities in Niuatoputapu, and strengthening Tonga’s capacity to address future natural disasters .

                                         D=Dropped                                                                                                 Data Source/      Responsibility for
                                         C=Continue                                     Cumulative Target Values**             Frequency
                                                                                                                                                   Methodology        Data Collection
                                  Core




     PDO Level Results                   N= New         Unit of
                                                                       Baseline
       Indicators*                       R=Revised      Measure
                                                                                       YR 1        YR 2           YR 3

Indicator One:

Restored housing, community              R            Number           0           0                          127           Semi-annual          Construction        PMU
     facilities and small                                                                                                                        Supervision
         enterprises:                                                                                                                            reports
 Provision of auxiliary water            C            Y/N              N           N           N              Y             Semi-annual          Construction        PMU
   and sanitation facilities                                                                                                                     Supervision
                                                                                                                                                 reports
Establishment of community               C            Y/N              N           N           N              Y             Semi-annual          Implementation      PMU
  risk management plans                                                                                                                          report MLSNR
                                                                                                                                                 and NEMO




                                                                                                11
                                                                          INTERMEDIATE RESULTS



Intermediate Result (Part A): (i) Housing materials for families affected by the tsunami, (ii) Supply of materials to Niuatoputapu; (iii) Construction and supervision of housing,
rainwater harvesting and sanitation facilities
Revised Intermediate Result (Part A):

Delivery of pre-cut housing           C              Percentage      0%                                    100%         Semi-annual         Construction       PMU
materials to Tonga:                                                                                                                         Supervision
                                                                                                                                            reports
Shipping to the affected Island       C              Percentage      0%                                    100%         Annual              Construction       PMU
                                                                                                                                            Supervision
                                                                                                                                            reports
                                      C              Percentage      %                                     100%         Semi-annual         Construction       PMU
Assembly of Houses in
                                                                                                                                            Supervision
Nuiatoputapu:
                                                                                                                                            reports
Intermediate Result (Part B):Essential auxiliary infrastructure for new housing established


Revised Intermediate Result (Part B):

km of rural roads resealed            N              Number          0         0              0            8            Quarterly           Construction       PMU
                                                                                                                                            Supervision
                                                                                                                                            reports
Intermediate Result (Part C): (i) enhanced mapping capacity, (ii) improved risk information; (iii) community awareness and preparedness


Revised Intermediate Result (Part C):


Enhanced mapping capacity             C              Percentage                                                                             Implementation
                                                                     0%        50%            80%          100%         Annual                                 PMU
                                                                                                                                            report MLSNR
Improved risk information             C              Percentage                                                                             Implementation
                                                                     0%        50%            80%          100%         Semi-annual                            PMU
                                                                                                                                            report MLSNR
Community awareness and               C              Percentage                                                                             Implementation
                                                                     NA        0%             100%         100%         Annual                                 PMU
preparedness                                                                                                                                report NEMO
Community consultation on             C              Percentage                                                                             Implementation
                                                                     NA        100%           100%         100%         Annual                                 PMU
risk awareness performed                                                                                                                    report MLSNR




                                                                                              12
Intermediate Result (Part D): (i) Effective implementation and supervision of Project components; (ii) Assessment of quantitative and qualitative impact of the Project


Revised Intermediate Result (Part D):


Quarterly progress reports           C              Number          0          4            8             12           Quarterly            Progress reports   PMU
against work plan and budget
delivered within 30 days of end
of quarter
Before and after study of            C              Number          0          1            1             2            Annual               Progress reports   PMU
relocated communities

                                            *Please indicate whether the indicator is a Core Sector Indicator (see further http://coreindicators)
                                              **Target values should be entered for the years data will be available, not necessarily annually




                                                                                             13
